the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, and the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly. it is a report which has won practically all the votes in our committee. so first of all, i would like to thank the colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, the officials who have enabled us in the new european added value unit to see what a step forward this initiative was, and the entire network of professionals who have helped me. this report was long awaited because the problem of restructuring is a matter of deep concern among citizens and workers. the crisis has made it much more difficult for companies to adapt to globalisation and change, and the social balance, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely difficult. in these three years we have lost two jobs for every one created and we have already lost 10% of the industrial fabric of the european union. we must do something to improve it and to change the despair that is now affecting millions of workers in dozens of regions, towns and industrial areas. there is also - and we must remember this - a growing distrust in european society of our institutions, which are seen as insensitive and powerless when they are not complicit in the industrial desertification of our continent. the report analyses all the european weaknesses and gives alternatives. the first weakness has been the mistake of leaving the companies alone to deal with the problem, or of leaving it to be a problem of the companies alone, when it is a problem of society, of the workers, of the authorities, of the countries and of europe. the second mistake was that we still lack the instruments, the european strategies, for a problem which knows no frontiers. there is a tremendous symmetry between certain companies and between countries which also open up a wide path to social dumping. there is no anticipation. the training and preparation of workers is left in the background. there are only reactive attitudes to the problems of reindustrialisation. we therefore need a legislative initiative, and that is what we are asking the commission to do under article 225 of the treaty. we want the commission to move beyond that ten-year period of analysing the situation to acting in the face of a situation which is dramatic. there may be a strategy, there is the possibility of a common picture. we offer you 14 recommendations which respect autonomy and subsidiarity and which simply leave a minimum standard for major restructuring and in the absence of a pact between the social partners, but if there is no such pact we must intervene at european level. we believe that the flexibility needed by companies to improve their ability to adapt to change can be met simultaneously with the security that workers demand and are entitled to in their employment relationships and in their protection systems. and we have to bring in all the actors. these criteria are therefore compatible, as has been the case throughout european history. we therefore want to tell the commission that if it makes social dialogue the key to the arch of the vault of restructuring, we will have smarter, more socially responsible restructuring and we will respond to a very broad demand of our society. the commission can now choose the type of act, but it should look carefully at the 14 recommendations if that act is to be an effective act. i would also like to ask you to look at all the data we have on what would be perhaps the most effective compulsory act. i would simply like to conclude by saying in these ten seconds that you should look at the legal issues, the economic issues, but also the ethical issues, the values issues, and that you should not be fooled by those who tell you that in times of crisis you cannot act. now is the time to act. it is now where the line between civilization and barbarism is drawn. we cannot give up our values, our justice, our solidarity between nations and between the workers of europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr cercas, and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive approach to this own-initiative report. the commission has followed the debates on this issue in the european parliament with great interest, given the importance and topical nature of this subject. the report is very timely, coming as it does at a time of severe economic and financial hardship across the european union with a heavy impact on society. the commission shares the view that a renewed dynamism from all relevant actors is needed to minimise the social impact of the crisis. most of all they need to pursue strategies, policies, practices and whatever is in their power to invest in human capital and create jobs, including for those who have become redundant due to restructuring, and provide them with training and re-skilling to facilitate their quick reintegration into the labour market. in the past months, a number of restructuring processes have been announced in many industrial sectors throughout europe. for the third quarter of 2012, according to the latest data of the european restructuring monitor, 274 restructuring cases were registered. these cases amount to a net job loss of more than 74 000, thus showing a reversed situation compared to the pre-crisis one. before the crisis, in the third quarter of 2007, for the same number of restructuring cases there were 6 600 net job creations – less than one tenth of the current figure. these figures actually reflect a structural change in the european economy and the labour market. this requires a clear policy action. for this, the eu can provide a wide range of support, including through policies and also through funding. in recent initiatives, such as the employment package, the youth employment package and the updated industrial policy communication, specification actions are envisaged to improve timely anticipation of skills and training needs and facilitate the necessary human capital investment. i may also mention vice-president tajani’s new initiative, entrepreneurship 2020, supporting new businesses in crucial phases of their life cycle and helping them grow, and specific initiatives in sectors which are in difficulty and experiencing major restructuring, such as the automotive industry, with our recently adopted cars 2020 action plan, but also the steel and shipbuilding industries, on which dialogues with all stakeholders involved have been set up and for which we are working together very closely. moreover, various eu funds can be used to better prepare and manage the restructuring processes and to help workers find new opportunities on the labour market. in particular, the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund have a proven track record which shows that, if used well, they can make a real difference on the ground. in this context i remain concerned about the tendencies to weaken those instruments in the next mff or even to scrap them, as with the egaf. this would of course make it more difficult for the eu to play a relevant role in addressing the restructuring challenge. the commission shares parliament’s concerns regarding the ongoing restructuring operations, expressed on many occasions and reiterated in this report. more than ever, good anticipation of change and responsible management of restructuring, with the involvement of the social partners, are crucial. if not managed properly, restructuring operations can have negative consequences for the surrounding economy, incurring high social costs across regions, and can negatively affect workers and their families. evidence shows that timely anticipation of skills and training needs within companies, intelligent investment in human capital – also supported by eu financial instruments – and fully-fledged social dialogue can significantly add to companies’ competitiveness and facilitate intra-company and labour market transition of workers, while substantially mitigating the social costs resulting from downsizing. the commission has for a long time been acting to encourage proactive and anticipative stances towards change and restructuring, and is convinced of the need to ensure widespread observance of the best practices of well-prepared restructuring, which also aims to minimise the social costs. in the past ten years, a number of commission initiatives have contributed to the eu-level debate on this matter. these initiatives notably include the checklist on restructuring processes, which was adopted in june 2009, but also the 2003 orientations for reference in managing change and its social consequences, as well as a number of seminars and forums which contributed to identification and dissemination of good practices. more recently, the green paper of january 2012 has renewed the debate and made it possible to identify successful practices and policies in the field of restructuring and anticipation of change. following parliament’s vote on this report, the commission will incorporate parliament’s contribution and requests in the current assessment of possible further actions on the basis of the green paper. the commission will keep the european parliament informed on the follow-up it intends to give to parliament’s request.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the last ten years, companies in europe have had to adapt to increasingly tough competition and to an economic and financial crisis which has resulted in the closure or restructuring of many of them. the development of a basic framework that covers all the problems and does not impede the modernization and competitiveness of enterprises is very complicated, since there are many differences between the countries of the european union, not only in terms of legislation but also in terms of what is meant by restructuring. for some, it means deindustrialization and the relocation of manufacturing outside. for the new states, it means the privatization of state-controlled industries. and others focus on the dependence on multinational companies. it is not easy to find a balanced text which recognises and seeks to protect the parties concerned, both the company itself in terms of competitiveness or viability and the workers in terms of labour rights and safety at work, and which can also be useful for member states and local authorities in the absence of regulation, but i think the rapporteur's report makes very positive points. one of them is anticipation of change, as the commissioner has said. it is true that in many cases restructuring cannot be foreseen and is the consequence of events external to the company, but it must be borne in mind that a correct initial forecast can help the company to avoid and minimise the negative effects that it may cause, especially in terms of collective redundancies. the information and involvement of all local economic actors, especially smes that are dependent on the company to be restructured, is essential for its survival. finally, proper training of workers, adapted to new trends and technologies, is equally essential for the worker and for the undertakings, also with the help of the structural funds, as the commissioner has said.
mr president, i too join in congratulating mr cercas on his initiative. i certainly think that the commission needs precisely these kinds of initiatives and that they are therefore essential, especially as citizens are increasingly sceptical and opposed to the construction of europe. but we are also very concerned that a kind of north-south divide is emerging, because there is a growing strong impression that the restructuring and deindustrialization of the southern periphery of europe is suddenly favouring not only the relocation of industries and companies but also the provision of more or less qualified workers, desperate in the face of long-term unemployment or the inability to see a future: masons leaving spain for oslo, spanish engineers for germany or doctors and nurses for the united kingdom. we not only call for the urgent establishment of a real and realistic framework to prevent and avoid deindustrialization and unemployment, through dialogue and agreements between the social partners, but we also urge you, commissioner, in the hope that this will become a reality, to establish mechanisms to accompany these workers who leave their country on a one-way trip, especially so that they also have the possibility of returning, and to examine how the resources of the european union can be better used.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has been an extremely useful debate for me; as already stated in the opening remarks the issue of restructuring is unfortunately very topical. the commission is working on the appropriate follow-up to the consultation it carried out on the basis of the green paper on restructuring. this debate in parliament and the report you will adopt make a useful contribution to the issue and the commission will take it into account in its future work. i think this discussion has helped clarify that there are many different challenges behind this phenomenon – for instance globalisation, the cyclicality of the economy and technological change – and also that the policy responses have to be complex. the discussion on restructuring connects with the financial debate on the mff, for example, which concerns the future of very important financial instruments such as the social fund and the globalisation adjustment fund. it also links to industrial policy. the attempts to increase industry’s share in european gdp is highly relevant here, and clearly the importance of social dialogue, which needs to be strengthened at all levels in the european union, is certainly relevant. i would like to highlight for you the commission’s forthcoming industrial relations report this coming spring, which will certainly provide some useful information. protecting social rights, and particularly in this context protecting the position of vulnerable social groups in the labour market as mentioned by mr kósa in the context of people with disabilities – this is certainly an aspect we need to look at in the future. but, even before new policies or new instruments are developed, what is crucial at this stage is the implementation of applicable eu law, particularly as concerns the information and consultation of workers. the commission will keep parliament informed on its follow-up to both the green paper and this cercas report, in line with the framework agreement between our two institutions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i thank the commissioner and all the other members for their participation in this debate, which was important but above all very generous and constructive. i would like to explain to those colleagues who are still reticent, such as those in the gue/ngl group, that in a transaction no one can be considered fully satisfied with their initial positions. if i were to make a report as the gue/ngl group wants, i would not have the absolute majority needed for a legislative initiative report. obviously, we had to find the lowest common denominator, which was also very important, and it's very important. because although the european union has legislation today, it is very fragmentary and this own-initiative report will produce a much more coherent strategy and will promote within the commission initiatives that are already being seen, as the commissioner has said, to put an end to the idea that the best industrial policy was the one that did not exist. and the phenomena of anticipation, which are so necessary, and the accompaniment of the losers of the crisis, therefore fill us with responsibility in the face of such an important event in the history of europe. i would now like to ask you, commissioner, in addition to thanking you for all your comments and the effort you are making, to tell your colleagues in the college that this is an excellent opportunity, that we are at the end of a mandate and perhaps the european union is quite orphaned in initiatives which represent to the citizens the commitment of the european union to its citizens, not only to its financial institutions, not only to macroeconomic problems, but also to the problems of the real economy and to the problems of industry, which is sinking dramatically in europe. and i would like to tell you, commissioner, that the ball is now on your roof. you can choose any legislative instrument you want, but take the most effective one. they are, without ideological prejudice, looking at all the enormous work that has been done and taking the most effective instrument to make what mr barroso said come true. remember what mr barroso said in the state of the union debate: 'let not those who are slower or more reticent dictate our agenda or our speed, but those who are more generous and more pro-european'. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the committee on employment and social affairs for tabling this question and its motion for a resolution, as it shows the strong support from parliament for the setting up of a youth guarantee scheme across the european union. it also allows me to clarify a number of issues regarding its implementation. first of all, i very much agree with ms berès that funding is a crucial aspect. a youth guarantee obviously has a fiscal cost. however, the costs of not acting are far higher. youth unemployment is expensive. it costs member states eur 153 billion a year in terms of social and unemployment benefits paid out and lost tax revenue and earnings, according to our agency eurofound. this is in addition to the long-term costs of unemployment to the economy, to society and to the young people concerned themselves, such as the increased risk of future unemployment, social exclusion and poverty. youth guarantee schemes are investments. therefore the commission is ready to make available substantial financial contributions from the european social fund (esf) and the other eu structural funds. the precise amounts, as you know, will depend on the outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, and therefore we count on your support for a strong esf in the next programming period. in parallel, the commission has just started to negotiate with the member states on the content of the partnership agreements and operational programmes for the period 2014-2020, which should focus on school-to-work transitions through the setting up of youth guarantee schemes. during these negotiations the specific amounts to be allocated to such schemes will be defined. the commission fully agrees that, in order for such schemes to be efficient, strong partnerships among all players concerned are necessary, but it is also aware that this is not that easy for a number of member states. this is why, building on the experience developed by member states with such schemes, we proposed six related specific recommendations to serve as guidelines for establishing strong partnerships. moreover, the call for proposals on youth guarantee schemes, launched last summer in the frame of a preparatory action, focuses precisely on the setting up of these partnerships. we thus expect that the outcome of the projects – to be selected in the coming weeks – will bring further knowledge and know-how to be shared with all member states. the commission is fully aware of the constraints that austerity measures are creating, in particular in member states with acute youth unemployment levels. however, let me repeat again that there will be positive returns on the investment in a youth guarantee. this has been explicitly mentioned in the 2013 annual growth survey and backed by the recent commission report on ‘the quality of public expenditure in the eu’, which considers youth guarantee schemes to be growth-friendly investments. there cannot be a one-size-fits-all approach when establishing a youth guarantee. indeed, we need to take into account the diversity and different starting points of the member states as regards the respective levels of youth unemployment and capacities of the various labour market players. furthermore, the young people targeted by these schemes are not a homogeneous group, and, besides gender and diversity dimensions, each member state will have to consider the various needs of the diverse groups and sub-groups of young people, some of them facing multiple barriers to entering the labour market. however, there is necessarily a strong european dimension as we share the common goal of supporting our youth. we need to demonstrate our solidarity, particularly in a time of tight budgetary constraints, and make sure that we do not compromise our future when consolidating our finances. as part of the european semester, we will establish through the employment committee multilateral surveillance on the implementation of youth guarantee schemes and also use the mutual learning programme of the european employment strategy to encourage member states to share their experiences. finally, we intend to regularly monitor and report on developments concerning the design, implementation and results of youth guarantee schemes as part of the annual programme of the european network of public employment services, which will have a pivotal role in the partnership approach. let me conclude by informing you that we have already had a first presentation of the youth guarantee proposal in the council, on 18 december 2012. a large majority of member states warmly welcomed the initiative and promised to work constructively towards a political agreement at the meeting of the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) of 28 february 2013 under the irish presidency.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, thank you, mr commissioner, we socialists are very pleased with this initiative; you have our full support; we hope that the employment, social policy, health and consumers council (epsco) will go ahead with this excellent idea. because the problem is very serious. sometimes we hear about 50 percent youth unemployment and forget that it's about averages. there are regions in my country, for example, where unemployment is as high as 65%, but there are towns where it is 70%, there are social groups facing 80%, and that is a reality that is no longer a problem: it is a drama of tremendous characteristics. they have said that their future is our future and, truly, either we give a future to these young people or europe will have no future. but, commissioner, if the phrase 'europe of the guarantee' has not been used, you must at least bring about change in the member states, make them change. you can't keep doing the same thing, because what you've done so far has brought this tragedy. we must reprogram the resources of the european social fund, we must put in a lot of imagination, new social agents and take seriously what is a problem not of them but of all of us.
mr andriessen, in the course of this intervention, two jobs will have been lost in spain, one of them young, up to two thousand a day. as is the case, to a greater or lesser extent, in many countries of the union. and while this was happening, you were unable to put forward a single proposal, a single programme, to alleviate in the slightest degree the situation in which millions of citizens find themselves. so the first thing is that this measure is late. but as long as this is happening, you are unable to implement the ambitious, european and co-financed programme which this parliament is calling for, and precisely on the grounds of subsidiarity and competence, creating more frustration and more disaffection. because europe, commissioner, still has the necessary instruments with which to act and sufficient resources. with 10% of the budget and not spent on the spanish bank bailout, we could perfectly fund this programme which this parliament is calling for. why are you flexible to help the banks, but you're tremendously rigid to help the people? so, yes, commissioner, use this parliament, and use it to create this programme as we demand it.
mr president, commissioner, the fight against youth unemployment is part of the lines of action of the commission, the council and parliament which we approved in the europe 2020 strategy. we have the highest youth unemployment rate since 1995 and therefore any initiative we receive will be welcome. however, this initiative, which aims to offer any young european an opportunity for work, education or traineeship after four months of unemployment, is incomplete in some respects. firstly, because its scope is limited to those under 25 years of age; secondly, because its implementation is subject to the will of the member states; and thirdly, because it lacks a specific financing plan. we therefore ask you to raise the age to 30 years, to take the necessary measures to ensure that it is implemented in all the member states, to include quality requirements in the youth guarantee, for example in terms of pay, and finally to ensure that the budget for the next seven years has sufficient resources.
madam president, commissioner, we all know here, because we have said it again and again, that without young people there is no future. what is unbearable is - as many of my colleagues have said here - that we have the best prepared and best educated generation, which does not find opportunities to develop its talents, and that europe is not able to offer a coherent and decisive response. i congratulate you, mr andor, on your proposal, but we must put on the table the necessary funding to achieve results, to put an end to this situation. the citizens are not going to put up with any more proposals that don't deliver results. the european social fund must be given the necessary resources to make it a useful and effective fund for the implementation of the youth guarantee. but we have to go further. the commissioner, the urgency of the unemployment situation requires us to act without delay. the answers almost always come too late. please don't let this be the case. it will have this parliament. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue card question. yes, of course, i agree with my colleague. it is true that many young people have dropped out of the courses offered because of the conditions of the labour market in my country, because of the ease of obtaining a job quickly and with a lot of money. these young people are now going back to school; they need to go back to school, they need to be prepared, they need to be qualified, but of course we also need to create jobs for them when they return to the labour market.
the european union solidarity fund was set up in 2002 to respond to major natural disasters affecting member states or countries that were in the process of joining the european union. until then, there was no other element or instrument that could intervene in the event of disasters. these ten years have been a success for this fund. they have made the principle of solidarity of the european union a principle that has taken on life and form. but in these ten years we have also been able to determine, by experience, exactly what this fund was lacking. we have seen that in the case of major natural disasters, those causing damage above the threshold for fund intervention in the country concerned, it has worked reasonably well. but we have also seen that in the case of regional disasters, those which occur and alter conditions in a particular region and affect the daily lives of people, their living conditions, and which have serious and lasting repercussions, many requests have been made by the regions which have not been accepted. more than 60% of the applications were related to this type of disaster and, as the concept was a very vague concept with unclear indicators, many expectations have been created by different regions that have not been met. this has led to the fact that, when we were able to draw up this new report today, we were able to correct this indeterminacy and this lack of clarity in the definition of these catastrophes. we have also seen over the last ten years that the fund could be made more efficient. because from the time the disaster occurs until the member state collects, it can take nine to twelve months, which puts the citizens of that region in a difficult situation. so we have proposed an acceleration, a simplification of the fund's procedures and advances, advance payments. we have also seen that in slow catastrophes such as drought the ten-week deadline for submitting an assessment of the damage to the commission cannot work and we have therefore asked that, in the case of this type of slow catastrophes, the use of the fund be made more flexible. in short, we have called for a reform of this regulation, but without touching on the financial aspects, either expenditure or the eligibility criteria. you will recall that in 2005 a proposal was made, which was not accepted by the council precisely because it concerned expenditure and the council did not agree with it, since it could cover other types of disasters in addition to natural disasters. in this case, that has not been the case in order for it to go ahead, for the commission, the council and parliament to give the go-ahead. the expenditure and the eligibility criteria are not touched at all. we have therefore defined and proposed for the regions criteria such as gdp, gross domestic product, with the aim of making it a threshold sufficiently adapted to the region that is going to ask for aid. we also call for simplification of all procedures. in some cases, for example, the commission has so far made a granting act and then another by which the conditions for the use of the grants were established. we ask that this be done in one act. in short, we propose that the fund, with the same resources, should be more efficient, more flexible and more transparent.
as the shadow rapporteur on energy policy, i believe that european energy policy must contribute to efficiency, security and sustainability. it is therefore necessary to harmonize energy policy with cohesion policy. it is true that there is no single energy model in europe, but there are differences. in my country, for example, we have energy surpluses, energy which is exported and for which we pay more than in other countries and more than in the rest of europe. the report acknowledges that this needs to be corrected, because large scale renewable energy projects often export energy out of the place where it is produced. european funds should therefore contribute to energy efficiency by promoting inclusive renewable energy sources that are fairly priced and not disproportionately priced. and we do not think that point 12 of the report is clear. what are transnational energy sources? is shale gas a transnational source of energy, as our committee on regional development has denied?
mr president, commissioner, it is true that we are living in a time of crisis, but this should not make it more difficult to make europe a project of solidarity. good politicians are the ones who look for opportunities in difficult times and we are here to help mitigate the negative effects of the recession. we must avoid social breakdown with reduced budgets, because cohesion policy has proved its effectiveness as an instrument of cohesion and competitiveness. the reports we are debating today, and for which i congratulate the rapporteurs, highlight the new challenges: urban renewal from the point of view of social sustainability, the reinforcement of the territorial objective. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, let us work for a cohesion policy that is more effective and efficient, more flexible and adapted to the needs of the regions, without denaturing the central objective of cohesion policy: the expression of the european union's solidarity with the most developed countries and regions and with the citizens who are suffering the worst.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i thank the commissioner for being receptive to this request, hoping that it will see the light and that we can somehow simplify the procedure, as we have said, and obtain greater clarity, precision and also transparency in all that concerns the definitions. the definition of what constitutes a regional catastrophe is of particular concern, as i have said before. we have spoken of a reasonable indicator, which could be gross domestic product, but we have also spoken of fixed correctors which can take account of non-measurable damage, such as damage to the landscape or environmental damage, which undoubtedly affects the regions, the way of life and the inhabitants. in any case, i believe that if we can have this regulation being drawn up by the commission in 2014, it will be beneficial for all citizens of the european union and, in particular, for the principle of solidarity. so, commissioner, you have the support of this parliament.
mr president, it is high time that this parliament received a proposal like this, a magnificent one, from mr luigi berlinguer. it is particularly timely, moreover, at a time when we are witnessing, in a very sensitive matter, the opacity of the functioning of the european anti-fraud office, whose procedures are secret at this stage of the 21st century, thus breaking all the legal principles that can be broken. in order to complete the excellent work of mr berlinguer, i would venture to say that i am missing a specific, more precise regulation on the consequences of failure to regulate the resolution of an administrative procedure within the appropriate time limit, that is to say, what many european jurists call administrative silence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the rights of the child.
mr president, in madrid, and representing the feelings of millions of spaniards, a white tide of public health professionals is taking to the streets in defence of one of the best public health services in the world, the spanish one. they want to prevent the ruling right from turning public health into a business, by privatizing hospitals and health centers, as has been announced. the crisis is the pretext and the troika's austerity recommendations are the argument, even though spain has not been bailed out. i am in full support of public health services throughout europe and of the white tide in madrid and i am publicly denouncing the savage austerity policies of the troika, which the commission seems to be failing to prevent. i ask the commission to demand that the troika publish the reports it already has which acknowledge that savage austerity has been a serious and counterproductive mistake; that it stop these policies before they cancel more rights, deteriorate more services, throw more europeans into unemployment and cause more suicides of people who cannot stand to see themselves evicted from their homes by selfish bankers, in the face of the miserable passivity of politicians who look more like pawns of the financial elites than real representatives of the people who have elected them.
mr. president, health is not for sale, it is for defense. this is what the public health professionals in many autonomous communities in spain are demanding: this is the case in madrid, valencia and catalonia, whose regional governments want to privatize one of the most efficient and most recognized public health systems in the european union and the world. it wants to turn health care into a business and that immediately results in users and patients, who are already suffering from "redundancy" and a significant deterioration in health care. i think that the european union should not look the other way, and we should urge it to stop, once and for all, the conversion of public health into a business for a few. i think we have to take account of what this professional response to public health is doing in madrid, valencia and catalonia.
mr president, the monetary fund is demanding measures from portugal in the areas of pensions, redundancies and health care. it is no use blanchard's contrition, acknowledging that he did not understand that austerity ends growth. the suffering of the lus brothers, subjected to the senselessness of austerity, is an example of this madness. he promised himself that by soaking the lintel of his door with the blood of the sacrifice, he would not affect the unjust plague of the greeks. it's useless! the priests of moloch continue to exact unrelenting tribute, even when, in some cases, there is a faint hope of improvement. the imf is a scorpion. he doesn't avoid the sting of the frog, even though he and the frog sink into the swamp. only a reasonable control, compatible with growth, would stop this manic spiral. we must not allow europe and mrs merkel to devour their children! watch what you say by olivier blanchard!
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the consensus reached by all the groups in this house. it is clear that natural resources, from medicines to cosmetics, come from developing countries, but the benefits are for companies and laboratories, not for these producing communities. we have a report that opens up the possibility that this can change, that the benefits, both economic and sustainability and environmental, can also be shared by these communities. in the committee on international trade we have tabled amendments relating to patents and trade, such as specifying the geographical origin of ingredients and, with that, the benefits for communities. the european union must obtain the commitment of the states that the benefits will be shared with the communities of origin; it must also draw attention to the intellectual property rights of seeds, since the use of own seeds, which often provide cultural value, is prevented. and of course, we must ensure that science, research, scientists can access the natural resources databases, support scientific research on biodiversity, and in doing so we all win.
member of the commission. − i would imagine that technology is always going to be the starting point. if we look at the start of fp7 and the technologies that were available then, we can see there has been such enormous development in technology, whether you are talking about the future emerging technologies or the ones that are of enormous significance now and will be going forward, like nanotechnology and biotechnology, for example. therefore, investing in technology is key for us. regarding the key enabling technologies, we had a high-level group which examined the key enabling technologies. these, in a way, are the primary responsibility of vice-president kroes. but working together, we have pushed forward what we consider to be an ambitious programme in the whole area of technologies. for example, the framework conditions in which all of these can operate are going to be very important, and innovative financial instruments are going to be crucial for those who want to further develop these technologies. together with the european investment bank – you will be aware of the risk-sharing finance facility where the larger ict companies have gained significantly – we have now learned that we can provide – and indeed have provided – an instrument, the risk-sharing instrument, which is primarily aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises. we think that, if we have listened carefully – which we have – to the technology companies, this is what they have said. they talk about all the issues that were raised during the discussions that we had on the innovation union flagship for example, as issues that prevent them from further developing within europe. so we have tried to push aside the obstacles that are there and that prevent all the innovations that commissioner vassiliou talked about from taking place. so together we have worked to push those obstacles aside – the patent, the standard setting, public procurement issues, and so on. obviously, from our point of view, financial instruments are a key part of that kind of support for those companies involved in these technologies.
member of the commission. − as you very well know, the money that goes to kics and the eit makes up only 25% of their budget. the remaining 75% comes from other sources, either from industries – which contribute quite a lot of money – or from regional or national funds. of course, we do not exclude the possibility of those funds also coming from structural funds. what you are proposing with the regional innovation schemes is very much related to the absorption of more structural funds from the eu. i think we should make the most of it, but the advantage of the eit, as i said before, is the leverage money that is created by the very small amount of 25% of what needs to be invested for them to grow and be sustainable.
member of the commission. − as regards getting more people involved, i think the main aspect of that has to be first of all providing the incentives. so whether it involves grants or prizes or financial instruments, i think all of those have to be tailored to meet the requirements. as regards widening participation, excellence is not everywhere but it can be found anywhere. i think what we have to do is to develop that excellence, and this is why we are very happy that parliament has put such an emphasis on widening participation and on using the synergies between horizon 2020 and the cohesion funds, for example. i think that is crucial, because horizon 2020 funds on the basis of excellence, and that will not be watered down in any way; but the cohesion funds need to be used for capacity-building. we have put in place and are putting in place the elements that are required to widen participation, whether it is teaming or twinning, further advances in the whole cost programme or using the two funds for funding the same project but different aspects of it, which was not possible up to now. and of course the european research area chairs, which are also very important. we have put together a full package to widen participation, and i know that the newer member states are particularly interested in utilising those elements of horizon 2020. i do not think we should ever put a quota on what is acceptable for participation in member states, but i think we need to encourage excellence to grow when we find it.
member of the commission. − you know very well that when we are deciding on the themes for the new kics, visibility and clear rules are very important for us. this is what makes it attractive for business to participate. and that is what i have been insisting on, in the inclusion of the eit in horizon 2020, because this flexibility and these clear rules are very important for industries. that is why i believe that we cannot decide that we should have another four kics or five or six kics without also specifying the themes, because that is what makes it attractive to business – and for other partners for that matter, such as research centres and education institutions – to participate: visibility, clear rules and flexibility.
member of the commission. − teaming and twinning are very important elements of the widening participation part of the proposal. in looking at how this might operate, obviously we are very conscious of the fact that twinning aims at significantly strengthening a defined area of research in an emerging institution. when we talk about teaming, we are aiming at the creation of new centres of excellence or a significant upgrade of existing ones that are working in, and are part of, a low-performing member state or region. when you ask me when the very detailed elements of this proposal might emerge, i would expect them to emerge during the course of the trialogue discussions with parliament and the council. i think there is, particularly in parliament, huge interest in, and support for, this whole area of policy. we have had a number of discussions in the council on widening participation, and particularly those ministers from the newer member states were very anxious to be able to tie down exactly what each of these proposals meant. so it was not just talk, or a proposal that we threw out there; behind the proposal there are specific actions that need to be taken so that we can prove that, when you put policies in place, it is possible to widen participation and to get a greater family of researchers and institutions into the framework programme. that is what i think you will see during the course of the trialogue discussions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the new horizon 2020 framework programme, following the adoption of the proposal by parliament, i think we can say that our vision does not stray too far from the commission's proposal, and we also agree that this is our main instrument for being competitive in science and innovation and, therefore, in knowledge, which, according to all the experts, is essential to overcome the crisis. however, all this - and you have said it very well, madam commissioner - requires sufficient investment and at the moment the trend in many member states is to reduce investment in these areas and there are constant threats that the new multiannual financial framework will reduce the budget for horizon 2020. i would like to ask whether the commission has any data on how a possible reduction would harm not only the programme as a whole but also its impact on competitiveness, growth and job creation in the european union, because that could put the council in a very difficult position. as regards the image of the european union, if it were to be downgraded, would that not, commissioner, also be very damaging to the image of europe? because europe, once again, would be showing little credibility because of the difference between rhetoric that is committed to investing in science and innovation and practice that is moving away from that purpose.
member of the commission. − thank you, ms madurell, for all the hard work that you are doing with your fellow rapporteurs in the committee on industry, research and energy to support horizon 2020. you have made a good point. it is one that we certainly understand very well within the commission. i said in response to mr ehler’s question at the very beginning that, while member states themselves have made crucial decisions in relation to continued investment in research and innovation – if i talk about the net contributors for example for a moment – it seems that, when they come to the collective table of the european council, the same kind of urgency is not being pursued in relation to investments in research and innovation. of course, a significant number of member states have reduced, as was rightly said, investment in research and innovation. so in fact for many member states the only investment, or a substantial amount of the investment, that will be made in research and innovation will come from the european funds. that is another reason why we need a really good, strong budget as the commission has proposed. any reduction can damage the programme itself and will damage different elements of the programme. while i am not going to go into the discussions that are ongoing in relation to the mff here, i would like to reassure members of the parliament that i have personally – as have my officials and my colleague commissioners who are here today and other colleagues in the research family – been using all the powers of persuasion that i have at the very highest political level in member states, and at the highest level in the business and research community, to impress on those who are going to come to that mff table how crucial investment in the future economy of the european union is. if i just look at one figure, for example, eur 1 billion less of funding for horizon 2020 would mean that 600 smes would not be in projects, or 500 projects would not be launched. that is perhaps the only figure that i should engage in here. that is why it is crucially important, as i said, even when net contributors want to reduce the overall budget, that within that proposal they look crucially at what is good for growth, jobs and sustainability within the european union. if they do, and when they do, i think that they will see that investment in research and innovation provides growth and jobs and is the economy of the future.
mr president, commissioner, we know that you share the concern of this parliament. i would like to make one more comment, because in the coming weeks europe's credibility and future are at stake. i just want to say that i am going to appeal to the council from here to demand a serious and responsible proposal that is firmly committed to science and innovation. the stakes are high - as we have all said - our growth, job creation and our social system, which we take pride in, all depend on a dynamic, competitive and knowledge-based economy. mr president, although the council is not present, i ask you, as president of this house, to convey this appeal to it.
member of the commission. − in fact that was one of the reasons why, when we defined what innovation meant, we were very particular that we did not confine ourselves to manufacturing or ict for example, but that in fact we had the broadest possible definition of innovation, which included services, design, the public sector and all aspects of our policy area. we have worked on that basis, and in the flagship innovation union initiative we have set out very clearly that all of these aspects of policy are included in the definition of innovation. so i agree entirely with what you say. it is not just about manufacturing, important as that is as an industrial area in europe, but it is also about services and all the other aspects where we need innovations to get ahead.
mr president, i come from the basque country, which has made a deep commitment to innovation and applied research over the past three decades. with a population of just over two million, we have two large technology corporations, tecnalia and ik4, which employ 5 000 researchers, 40% of the industrial research output of the spanish state, and four technology parks with 14 000 employees and 403 companies. the horizon programme highlights the role of the regions in implementing this strategy through the principle of smart specialisation. i would therefore like to know how this will be translated into operational reality and to what extent this principle will be applied. in the europe of states, i am concerned about what might happen when regions with this industrial and innovative vocation are located in states with a different type of productive fabric and model of economic development. i also want to know what measures are being taken to promote the final stages of r & d & i in order to achieve a faster and clearer impact on the emergence of new products and services. finally, what is your view of the need to bring forward to 2014 the launch of the knowledge and innovation community for manufacturing? this is what the technological centres in the basque country are asking for.
member of the commission. − i agree. when i talk about the fact that we do not have excellence everywhere but we can have it anywhere, the basque region is obviously a beam of hope in the context of all of the regions in europe. they have very much applied themselves to the kind of smart specialisation that the commission talks about now. i think that this has worked very well for the basque region. the wire conference will be coming up during the next six months, giving the innovative regions of europe an opportunity to come together, to have discussions, to look at their policies, to see how those policies can be worked together, where they can cooperate, and what elements of the european policy are preventing the kind of smart specialisation that they would like to see developing. if one looks from a manufacturing point of view at the key enabling technologies for example, they have, as you know, the largest budget line within the horizon 2020 policy. there is a real opportunity for those innovative regions to first of all further develop themselves, but also share their knowledge and the aspects of their policy with other regions in europe that are not doing as well and have not focused and are not looking at specialisation in the way that the basque region has. certainly i would support very strongly what you have said. i think that in the policy that we have put forward we are rewarding those that have done well but we are encouraging those that have not done as well to come into the programme.
commissioner, i was also asking your opinion on the need to bring forward the date from 2018 to 2014 in the case of manufacturing. this is vital for the technology sector in the basque country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it represents a boost to economic activity in europe's urban areas. the economic depression induced by the international financial crisis in europe has led to a severe deterioration of many urban areas, especially in the south of the continent. this report proposes a resolution which will help to revive both economic activity and the quality of life in the depressed areas of european cities. the report insists on developing sustainable programmes for the recovery of cities under participatory planning dynamics that allow citizens to develop the kind of city they want to live in. i therefore believe that this can be a step forward for european cities and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes the appropriate use of cohesion funds to build a new model of urban planning which limits their use to the creation of housing bubbles and, on the contrary, actively encourages urban planning with a significant social dimension. the report proposes actions to rehabilitate existing parts of cities, encouraging the functional conversion of disused areas, highlighting their characteristics and cultural heritage. all this must be in the service of optimum use of the cohesion funds, both quantitatively and qualitatively, in the service of common objectives in urban matters at european level. in addition, new planning dynamics involving associations and citizens are proposed with the aim of ensuring the necessary link between general policies and specific territorial areas, so that the specific characteristics, identity and history of the site where they are to be implemented are reflected in the design of the policies. in conclusion, this report proposes important aspects for urban management and encourages the implementation of urban rehabilitation programmes. in addition, it is proposed to focus on disused urban heritage and redefine it for its highest use.
in writing. − we supported the report in general as it provides for a broad picture of urban development challenges and reasonable considerations. the focus of our amendments was to improve the text and to stress the importance of pockets of poverty, citizens involvement and environmental concerns. most of our amendments have been integrated into compromise amendments. the issue of urban development continues to be of interest for the regi committee, although there is no direct eu competence. however, the use of structural funds and certain eu sector policies such as transport and environment have significant impact on the design of cities and planning processes. the report aims, inter alia, to promote the social and economic recovery of cities and deems it necessary to redesign town planning and territorial planning methods by opening a discussion on planning practices and instruments of intervention. this could enrich environmental, territorial, commercial, transport and infrastructure policies, via a mixed use of the territory, which integrates tangible infrastructure and intangible network systems.
in writing. − all the tools at our disposal are needed for sustainable economic growth. in this case, as well, we have to rethink how we can better use the public funds available to our cities. i am in favour of pushing forward the necessary public policies that it has been determined will diminish the pain of the turmoil that is affecting our cities and at the same time will help to construct a better society. as most people live in cities, and without acting against the interests of the one third of the european population that lives in smaller settlements or remote areas, it is of the utmost importance to find tools that will allow us to better design the cities of tomorrow. economic growth that brings sustainable job creation, social cohesion and enhanced and better quality of life should be a public policy that has to be carried out.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because it maintains a privatising and financial perspective on local policy. although it seeks to make some changes in the way local authorities' sources of funding operate, such as simplification, and to require that at least the current levels of investment from the cohesion fund be maintained, the report falls within the private participation and co-financing of local policy. the report supports the commission's vision of encouraging public and private partnerships in the provision of basic services and in the development of different local policies. as in the commission's agenda 2020, the report again suggests the same reactionary line of implementing policies through public-private partnerships. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. − in favour. the community-led local development instrument and a specific reference to micro-credits in paragraph 43 on financial instruments were key points for our group that were introduced by way of amendments. with territorial cohesion added by the treaty of lisbon to economic and social cohesion as a treaty objective under article 174, there is an increasing need for a bottom-up approach in order to mobilise the potential of local and regional development. the overarching concern of this report is that, in order to achieve this, common rules and close coordination for all funds covered by the cpr is essential. the legislative package for cohesion policy 2014-2020 includes common provisions for all five funds covered by the cpr (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, european agricultural fund for rural development, european maritime and fisheries fund). in addition, implementing strategies at local level should be the responsibility of local actors and authorities, with the aim of ensuring that economic and social needs are met at the level closest to the citizen.
in writing. − in the midst of the economic turmoil it is of the great importance to optimise the public resources that we have. hence, to achieve the goals we have agreed upon it is necessary to invest our resources where they can provide the best possible outcome. greater integration of the funds and their coordination will surely make them more efficient and help to achieve what the citizens expect. reducing red tape as much as possible is also crucial.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which seeks to improve the functioning of the european union solidarity fund (eusf). this fund is used to provide assistance to the population affected by natural disasters occurring within the territory of the union. the report includes proposals to improve its functioning, including measures to reduce the time between a disaster and the mobilisation of the fund. the eusf was set up in 2002 to respond to the severe floods in romania that year, but has not been modified since then and there have been many different crises that the eusf has had to assist in. the report proposes only measures which can improve the operation of this financial mechanism in the care of victims and i therefore welcome it and have voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. we are in favour of a well-functioning solidarity fund that contributes to improving sustainability and effectiveness in disaster prevention and response. we tabled a number of amendments aiming to stress the sustainability of interventions and coherence with national mechanisms. we also highlighted that speeding up procedures not only relates to european institutions (e.g., budget procedure), but also to national or regional authorities. the majority of our amendments have been carried, and we managed to improve language, e.g. when it came to advance payments, as well as the report.
in writing. − despite the operational shortcomings that have come to light over the years, the solidarity fund has proven to be one of the most successful and well-received union instruments, since it is one of the few instruments available to the union with which it can demonstrate its solidarity with and closeness to european citizens. the changes in the economic situation of the union and the majority of its member states have to be taken into account, the operability of the fund should be improved without incurring additional costs. procedures should be clearer, more precise and more transparent. i endorse the need for a clear and precise definition of the concept of disaster, setting a general criterion for assessing the severity of damage caused, and for thresholds to be established geared to the appropriate territorial level. this would help to remove doubts and negative attitudes to the european union among both member states and the public, which may otherwise believe that the union does not offer an appropriate response to their problems. the bureaucracy necessary for the fund’s mobilisation should be reduced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes, by way of a recommendation, to establish a regulation on the european union code of administrative procedure, which will contribute to the proper functioning of the european institutions. the report proposes a regulation setting out the basic principles of good administration, developing basic principles such as non-discrimination, impartiality, proportionality, etc. the report proposes that the commission develop a regulation on the basis of article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i think it is a good report in proposing the introduction of the principles of good administration and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − in favour. for our group, the principle of transparency is of key importance, and we have insisted that this principle is included and emphasised: the union's administration should be open. it should document the administrative procedures and keep adequate records of incoming and outgoing mail, documents received and the decisions and measures taken. all contributions from advisory bodies and interested parties should be made available in the public domain. our group also contributed to clarifying the principle of impartiality of administrative decisions. no member of staff should take part in an administrative decision in which he or she has a financial interest. any conflict of interest should be communicated by the member of staff concerned to his or her immediate superior, who may take the decision to exclude the member of staff concerned from the procedure, having regard to the particular circumstances of the case. an interested member of the public may request that an official be excluded from taking part in any decision which will affect that person's individual interests. the request to that effect should be submitted in writing and should state the grounds on which it is based.
in writing. - i welcome the excellent proposal put forward by mr luigi berlinguer; to complete the work, i would venture to say that i am missing a more precise regulation on the consequences of failure to resolve a procedure within the prescribed time limit, that is to say, what many european jurists call administrative silence. it should be introduced and, for that, nothing better than to refer to the criteria established by the case law of the court of justice of luxembourg itself.
mr president, i supported this proposal because transparency towards employees and their participation in the planning process is good for all business restructuring processes. firstly, because it helps to limit the traumatic solutions as much as possible and, secondly, because it makes it possible to prevent the effects that they will have, because it will make it possible to organize much better the measures that must be promoted to return the employees affected by them to the labour market. finally, i believe that following the recommendations in this report will limit fraudulent practices, punish those who practice them and penalize the use that some people make of the unfortunate crisis we are living in to limit the rights of workers. to bet on these measures is to bet on people, on their future, on their chances of vital and professional development and to humanize a process which, too often, forgets that human capital is the basis of the intelligent development to which we aspire in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it does not provide any new measures to protect workers against restructuring imposed by employers. in the current crisis affecting employment throughout europe, but particularly in the southern countries of the union, a report of this kind is absolutely unproductive. the report recommends that information be improved in the restructuring processes of companies, without calling into question these processes and arguing that competitiveness is a legitimate reason for the dismissal of workers. i believe that other laws are needed to stop the aggression of capital against the european working class, and that it is not enough to make light recommendations to inform workers of their dismissals. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the european commission to respond appropriately to the risks posed by the globalisation of trade, which threatens the most vulnerable segments of society. between 2000 and 2010, there were more than 11 000 cases of business restructuring in europe, with a ratio of almost two jobs destroyed for every job created. to curb this dynamic, companies need to be more involved in offering workers alternatives to redundancy. in addition, spain has regulated in the opposite direction, with a labour reform that facilitates dismissal, turning its back on social dialogue and ignoring the search for alternatives to dismissal. for this reason, the development of a european standard to encourage greater employment protection and the implementation of measures such as the reduction of working time are all the more important. in addition, the promotion of skills management strategies and increased investment in internal retraining or training programmes offers incentives to the company to avoid redundancies. the dialogue must become more important in the light of the economic situation, so that the opportunity to implement european legislation that is fairer and more protective of workers is seized.
in writing. the recommendations voted on today are a necessary response to the risks of globalisation of trade, which threaten the most vulnerable populations, and to the increase in the number of company restructurings in europe and france. between 2000 and 2010, more than 11 000 restructuring cases were recorded by the european monitoring centre for restructuring, with a ratio of 1.8 jobs destroyed for every one job created. that ratio went up to 2.5 to 1 between 2008 and 2010! in europe, three million industrial jobs have disappeared since the start of the crisis. in france, the phenomenon is older, since between 1991 and 2010, 1.2 million jobs disappeared. to stop the bleeding, it is first necessary to involve the employees and their representatives, and as soon as possible, in order to protect jobs and activities. local and regional public authorities must also be involved, as their decisions have an impact on the business of the enterprise. the courageous employees of the fralib factory in gemenos have set up an exemplary project of cooperative society, with the support of the marseille urban community, in order to protect their tea production activity against financial speculation.
in writing. − living in a climate of continual delocalisation and corporate restructuring, it is of the utmost importance that employees have a say and are consulted during these processes. i support also the idea that those enterprises that do not comply with european union regulations and directives should not receive funds from the eu budget. economic freedom and freedom of collective action must be reconciled.
mr president, i support this report on the european union strategy for the horn of africa because i believe it is the most comprehensive document ever adopted by this parliament on the crisis affecting that part of the world. the misery, corruption and tyranny of some leaders cause enormous suffering to the people of the region and stimulate the emergence of phenomena such as piracy and guerrillas. the proper handling of this problem requires intervention on the political and social situation in the area and also avoiding impunity for terrorist and pirate organizations, which make it difficult for basque tuna fishing vessels to work with constant kidnappings and attacks. the horn of africa has enormous potential for economic development and prosperity; bringing it to the surface and distributing it well is the best solution to end instability in the region. i would like to congratulate mr tannock on his report, which has been able to capture the enormous complexity of the situation.
in writing. - i voted against this report, which is a new political tool to justify imperialist and neo-colonial intervention in this region of africa. my group, the group of the european left/nordic green left, has tabled an alternative resolution which does not insist on the interference and the imperialist role that the european union is assuming in africa; this resolution has obviously been rejected by the majority of the house which prefers to support a policy of interference, war and dependence. in view of this policy of plundering the african continent, which seems to have continued since the european powers began to divide up their territories, i and my whole group in this parliament voted against this report, rejecting the union's imperialist policy altogether.
in writing. − abstention. the original draft report was of very poor quality. we therefore tabled 29 amendments. the result is mixed. some very important amendments have been successful such as: (am) illegal dumping of toxic waste in somali coastal waters and relevant unep report; (3) eusr should have adequate resources and direct access to csdp structures; (38) need to spend eu money on investigating and prosecuting illegal waste dumping in somali coastal waters; (39) need for impartial and independent humanitarian assistance; (52) the need to engage – as eu and ashton – in mediation including women's associations. but, some important issues raised by our amendments failed: (1) the need to radically change eutm somalia; (2) rejection of onshore military operation by atalanta; (3) the need to negotiate with al shabaab, or least try to negotiate with parts of the rebel group; (4) deletion of a sentence saying that many somalis perceive piracy as positive; (5) reference to the fact that the cia operates a base and a secret prison on somalia; (6) criticism of unilateral military intervention by neighbouring countries of somalia, such as kenya, ethiopia or eritrea (illegal export of weapons); (7) criticising the eu commissions failure to anticipate and manage the severe drought and refugee crisis.
in writing. − countries located in the horn of africa are suffering from one of the most severe droughts of the last 60 years, which has worsened the situation of the most food-insecure regions in the world on account of the region’s poverty and underdevelopment. i welcome all the efforts and humanitarian aid that eu has focused on this region in order to improve basic social services and eradicate poverty. i agree that the european institutions must remain vigilant and active in the fight against piracy, must be strong in the defence of peace and the promotion of democracy and human rights, and should include ad hoc financing lines for the horn of africa. i support all the humanitarian aid for civilians. that is whay i voted in favor of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential that concern for the planet's genetic diversity be introduced into european legislation. the report raises a number of issues of vital importance to the union and third countries, from the rights of indigenous communities to concerns about the right to agriculture and healthy food, related to the ownership of the genetic heritage of humankind. the agreements on intellectual property rights cannot be a tool for bio-piracy by western multinationals. it is necessary to protect genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge to ensure that they can survive the voracity of the capitalist system. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. for i take up the words of my colleague, mrs grèze, who said: 'this is a day to be marked with a white stone: from now on the word 'biopiracy' is no longer taboo in this parliament'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we are facing the threat of the concentration of the world's genetic resources and traditional knowledge in the hands of a few multinational pharmaceutical, cosmetic and agri-food companies, the real "pirates of life". this concentration has dramatic consequences for indigenous peoples and small farmers. biopiracy is a phenomenon that affects all of us. health, access to medicine, generic medicines, traditional medicine, but also food security and, of course, access to seeds, which is fundamental for small farmers all over the world, nothing is spared. the report highlights three of the key demands of developing countries: the requirement for patent applicants to disclose the source and origin of genetic resources and traditional knowledge, evidence of informed consent and evidence of fair and equitable sharing of benefits.
in writing. − genetic resources coming from our environment and, in particular, traditional communities around the world, are of great importance to enhance our agriculture and improve productivity. the knowledge that these resources contain may help us better understand many issues that are still without answer in the scientific world. and more, because these resources are a stepping stone for the improvement of current medicines. clarifying the rules of the game for inventions with their origin in these genetic resources will be good for all the stakeholders involved.
mr president, mr chancellor, i thank you for your spirit of solidarity and for your other reflections on the future of europe, a future which is less uncertain today than it was a year ago. the progress achieved by the european council in the second half of 2012 and also the decisions of the european central bank have made it possible to overcome doubts about the irreversibility of the euro and also about the integration process itself. but what we've achieved is still not enough. alongside the necessary national reforms, further progress is needed to bring economic and fiscal union up to the level required by monetary union and thus correct the serious asymmetry that the crisis has revealed. the steps and objectives set out in the so-called four-chairman document must, in my view, be supported, and the support of the spanish authorities is certainly known. i agree, mr chancellor, that public opinion and, as you have said, young people must support the process of european integration. but they will do so if the union contributes to the solution of the crisis. they will do so if the union is seen as a solution and not a problem. this is the narrative, the essential discourse, which today legitimises the european project: to help to overcome the crisis. and i will add a second argument to justify european integration. it is the new context of an interdependent and multipolar world in which new authors have emerged. in that world, as commission president barroso has said, size matters. europeans are stronger together. otherwise, we will fall into irrelevance. the europe of the future, the future of europe, requires a more united foreign policy, something which the treaty of lisbon has already promised.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, firstly i would like to thank very much president schulz and all the political groups for the cooperation and flexibility that you have shown in making space today for this really important opportunity to update you and to discuss the situation in mali. this is something i felt very strongly, in this very turbulent week, that i wanted to be able to do as we bring together our services and the crisis platform, and of course as we talk with the malian government and i convene the foreign affairs council for an emergency meeting this week. as you will have seen, the situation in mali has dramatically changed over the last week. the jihadist rebels and terrorists from the north have become clearer in their intentions, as they have launched an offensive moving further south and taken the city of konna in the region of mopti – only a few hundred kilometres from the capital bamako. it was clear to us as we analysed the situation as it happened, that they wished to seize as much territory within mali as possible and to reinforce their position before the international community was fully ready to act. they also, of course, sought to destabilise the government in bamako to make it even more difficult for the international community to bring its support to the malian people. the consequences of this are already clear from the actions that have been perpetrated in northern mali by the radical groups. there have been horrific abuses of human rights, the desecration of holy and cultural sites, the trampling of political and religious freedom, and a threat posed to all neighbouring countries. that threat, of course, extends to the eu itself; we are directly impacted by the situation there. terrorist groups based in northern mali use this territory that they control for all kinds of traffic, for drugs and arms smuggling. they have taken many hostages, many of them originated from european member states. so under no circumstances can we be indifferent to the situation. i want to pay tribute to those member states, particularly france, as well as the countries of west africa, who have come to mali’s aid. it is important that the rebels understand that the international community is united in supporting the malian people against those who wish to impose an undemocratic and violent regime on them. as the un security council concluded on 10 and on 14 january 2013, the aggressive actions of the rebels ‘constituted a direct threat to international peace and security’. i have strongly condemned this aggression. what we are facing today in mali is a matter of emergency. we have to act. a failure to do so would be a great political, strategic and humanitarian mistake. like other international organisations – not just the un but the african union and ecowas – as well as a number of member states, led by france and other african countries, we have responded to the appeal made by president traoré of mali for help. coordination and involvement are absolutely necessary. the states of the region are playing a key role, and the decision of algeria and morocco to authorise the use of their air space is a good example of this international mobilisation. this will be very much a collective effort, but the eu, which has taken the lead in defining a strategy to resolve the problems of the sahel region, has a critical role to play. i set out the eu’s commitment to support the people of mali already in a statement on 11 january 2013. but more important now is to be rapidly engaged and to act. since the end of last week, the external action service and our commission colleagues have put together a package of measures that will provide immediate and longer-term help to the malian government and people. yesterday i chaired the meeting of the eu’s crisis platform to pull the threads together, and i spoke again to the foreign minister of france on the state on the state of play on the ground. taking all of these elements into account, as well as the urgency of the situation, i have announced an extraordinary foreign affairs council which will discuss this package of actions, adopt immediate measures and which will be attended by the foreign minister of mali. as i reiterated yesterday, we need to accelerate our course of action. as i have said, the foreign minister of mali is on his way to brussels to meet with me bilaterally and then to join us at the foreign affairs council. the eu has already agreed to provide a training mission. this will help the malian army restructure and enhance their capacity to defend their people against threats. we want to deploy that mission as quickly as possible, and certainly more quickly than we had planned. though circumstances have changed, there is still a real need for mali to have an efficient and professional military under civilian control. it is all the more urgent and, in the long run, will be essential for the viability and territorial integrity of that country. so we are going to adapt accordingly the details of our mission, get the agreement from member states when we bring them together in the foreign affairs council and send, without further delay in these next days, the first preparatory and technical elements of that mission. we have also undertaken to support those african countries providing troops for the un-african union mandated african-led international support mission to mali. one key part of this international effort is to underline the need for a genuine african ownership of this whole initiative. i am working with commissioner piebalgs and the member states to ensure that our financial support, through the african peace facility, can be provided in a timely manner, given that this is now being deployed more quickly than originally planned. we also have to think about logistical support, as the deployment of this african-led force is key for fighting against terrorist groups and restoring territorial integrity to mali. we are also looking at ways in which we can support the president and his government in putting the country back on the proper democratic and constitutional path. we have talked about the position in the sahel and our overarching strategy, and mali has been through a traumatic period over the last year. two things have become very clear: firstly, that the malian army’s job is to defend the people and not to run the government; secondly, that the malian government has to respond to the needs of the people, helping their development and respecting their diversity. we can help with both of those. we also have to look to the increase in our humanitarian support. we have never stopped this assistance (eur 58 million already in 2012, and eur 20 million immediately available). it will continue, even in what are very difficult conditions, to try to meet the growing needs of the malian population, internally-displaced people and refugees, and women and children, who are always the first to suffer from such a crisis. it is part of our comprehensive approach that we try to tackle the full range of issues that will help to build a more stable and prosperous future for this country. i intend to appoint an eu special representative for the sahel, which will enable us to increase our capacity to deliver help to all the countries of the region, to coordinate better, to work closely with the neighbours and international organisations, and to be even more active in the necessary coordination from the international community that is going to be even more relevant now. but the survival of mali must come first. so we need to make sure that we protect, promote and respect sovereignty, unity and the integrity of the malian nation. that has got to be the immediate priority and the immediate action that we take. as i began, i am extraordinarily grateful that you have allowed me to bring this to your attention. it is an issue in which i believe that the parliament has much to offer. furthermore, we have in place a good strategy which, having got ourselves ready for action, we are now able to engage and to move forward. i am looking forward very much to your comments.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the occupation of northern mali by islamic jihad and tuareg radicals is a real and imminent threat. hence the need to discuss this issue, to analyse it after years of provocations and kidnappings, and at a time when the situation has become more radical as a result of the collateral effects of the arab spring. we have waited so long that, indeed, the situation and the challenge of islamic jihad has reached the capital of the country. so i think it is appropriate to react at this time, in a climate where our societies, with suicidal desist, are not aware of the potential threats posed by the terrorist threat, except when it manifests itself at home. in this context, madam president, i think that what this parliament should do is to welcome the courage and determination of france, as it did in the case of libya, and to express our solidarity. not just with words, but with deeds. that is what my political group is asking you to do, mrs ashton: to express, as high representative, your solidarity with the french authorities. that is what we expect from the council of foreign ministers which you chair, and it is clear that if the european union is to aspire to that role as a global power, it will have to honour its commitments as a global actor in an area which is very close to us and which is very close to our interests. and that is what the international community is also demanding, and very particularly the regional actors, where i think we have to look for the involvement of algeria as well. madam president, the international community in general and the european union in particular have the right and the obligation to tackle the terrorist threat and to put a very firm and decisive stop to the enemies of freedom.
madam president, lady ashton, first of all, i would like to express my full support for france in this difficult situation. two years ago i had the honour of being the head of the european union election observation mission to the elections in niger. the nigerian authorities warned us then of the terrible consequences for all the sahel countries of the return from libya of the tuaregs who were part of gaddafi's mercenary army, with all their weapons. i have expressed this concern in this house on numerous occasions and, unfortunately, the worst forecasts have come true. it is a well-armed army of fanatical terrorists facing a disorganized and poorly trained army, and in the future also soldiers from other african countries whose motivation cannot be the same, and they will have a very difficult time facing them. i am therefore very much afraid that france will have to get involved in this delicate matter, with the backing of the united nations and the necessary active participation of the european union and its member states. but we must also think about the future, about finding a political solution that satisfies the demands of the tuaregs, always, of course, within the unity of the country, and for this it is essential to have the mnla, which has already announced that it is ready to help the french army in its fight against the northern islamist groups that are sowing terror in the region.
mr president, with this reform i think that we are taking a step forward towards addressing one of our citizens’ biggest complaints since this crisis started. three issues are relevant in this sense: firstly, with this reform we aim to break the link between regulation and credit ratings which has given too much power to the latter. secondly, it is good to have a clear calendar on the sovereign ratings of the agencies. it creates certainty for all the stakeholders. however, i am disappointed that the rating agencies are not yet required to spend time physically on the location rated. thirdly, i support the idea that the commission will produce a report on a public rating agency, but i would like it to be a foundation with a public-private partnership in order to enhance its credibility. after three different approved laws in the last few years, i hope that this new reform is going to be the one that lasts.
mr. president, this is the third legislative initiative on rating agencies since 2009. it is a step forward in meeting the g20 commitments in a manner consistent with the work of the international monetary fund and the financial stability board. we adopted it after six months of hard negotiations with the council, preserving the essential content, voting in the committee on economic affairs, and for that i congratulate the parliamentary negotiating team and, in particular, the rapporteur, mr domenici. the errors of the rating agencies are at the root of the crisis, its effects have been multiplied by the over-reliance on them, by the regulatory dependence, which has discouraged the good risk management. to correct this, in addition to establishing principles for market participants to have robust risk assessment systems, a transition process towards alternative standards is envisaged to be completed by 2020. democratic institutions cannot be held hostage by rating agencies. the volatility and procyclical effect of ratings on sovereign risks is evident. this legislation sets guidelines to ensure transparency and put a stop to political interference. the commission is also mandated to submit reports on the establishment of a european system for the assessment of sovereign risks and the establishment of a public sovereign risk rating agency. the package will also help prevent conflicts of interest, promote competition and strengthen the civil liability of agencies. although not the last, it is certainly an important step in its regulatory reform. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. like many meps, as the european parliament has stated, we are in favour of europe having its own rating agencies. these self-rated agencies may have the legal basis of a foundation or they may be directly a public and independent agency which, by the quality of its ratings, can earn the trust of the markets and avoid the effects of the ratings we have been suffering from until now.
madam president, the excesses of a one-size-fits-all austerity policy and the lack of a comprehensive and integrated response at european level are producing very damaging effects. the development of a eurobond catalogue is not only legally possible but urgently needed to correct this situation and improve the economic governance of the euro area. in the sixth year of the crisis, more and more citizens are criticising europe for not mobilising all the means at its disposal to restore growth, create jobs and strengthen public finances in the member states in a sustainable way. if the rifts between the northern and southern states, between the central and peripheral states, widen, the cohesion needed for the european project will be jeopardized. structural mechanisms are needed to share the risks of a monetary policy more favourable to the central countries than to the peripheral ones. banking union will help us to prevent and limit the moral hazard of private debt and should be complemented by fiscal union in the public sphere; it needs to establish the conditions for euro area member states to reduce their debt, to keep it sustainable at reasonable levels and to avoid excessive costs or differentials in their financing. a european economic policy that encourages the development of the investments needed to meet our objectives must be promoted, and eurobonds can help to promote these objectives and make the euro a reliable global currency. that is why i wholeheartedly support the goulard report.
madam president, 2012 was a key year for the euro. the doubts about greece have been dispelled and, in short, the doubts about the euro have been dispelled. the basis for the banking union has also been laid. we need only look at the reaction of the financial markets to see the progress made. however, it is not enough. there's still a lot to do. firstly, we must complete the banking union with its two pillars: the framework for resolving banking crises and the common deposit guarantee fund. we must also make progress on integration, on the fiscal union. in short, we must continue to move towards a genuine economic union. and the culmination of this process must be the stability funds. we are of course almost all agreed that this joint debt issue will be subject to strict conditionality, and that it is essential to show that we have a path with objectives to be met and that we are willing to go all the way. as mario draghi said during his last visit to the committee on economic and monetary affairs of this house, the sense of urgency has passed. that is a positive thing, but let us not give up our efforts to move forward, without haste but without pause, towards a true economic union and, in short, a true political union.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, let me thank the rapporteur, mr pallone, and the committee for this important report at a very critical juncture for the economic and monetary union. i understand that there has been a rather tense debate on this report. this reflects the difficult situation of europe in the crisis, which is analysed in the commission public finance reports of 2011 and 2012. i take due note of the fact that your motion for a resolution concludes that ensuring the sustainability of public finances is necessary. your report and resolution also stress the relevance of the efforts made by the union in recent years to reinforce its budgetary and economic governance. the commission also agrees with parliament’s view that such fiscal consolidation needs to be pursued in a country-specific and differentiated manner, aiming to preserve growth-friendly expenditure items and to respect equity among citizens in the name of social fairness. this is in line with the view expressed by the commission in our annual growth survey of last november. against the backdrop of a positive assessment of the report, i am glad to inform you that some of the relevant demands are already being fulfilled in current practice. in particular, the commission already delivers country-specific and rather detailed recommendations to member states, analyses the euro area as a whole and publishes its methodology underpinning the assessment of the structural balances of the member states. the coming months will still be difficult because the economy remains weak and our citizens continue to feel the impact of the crisis. but recent economic sentiment indicators are showing signs of stabilisation, and confidence in financial markets is considerably growing. this is reflected in the significant fall in borrowing costs for countries such as ireland, italy and spain. confidence has been boosted by determined policy action at the european level and in our member states, and also underpinned by the european central bank’s decision on ‘outright monetary transactions’. it is noteworthy that fiscal deficits have been reduced from above 6% in 2009 or 2010 to around 3% last year, and they should be coming down to a little above 2% this year. this is also to an extent the result of the work that has been done together by parliament, the commission and the council to reinforce economic governance under the six-pack. even if there is less reason for pessimism at the start of this year than there was a year ago, we cannot afford to lower our guard. instead, we must now capitalise on the improved sentiment and pursue the rebalancing and reforms of our economies with consistent determination. it is precisely for these reasons that we proposed our blueprint for a deep and genuine economic and monetary union, with a road map towards an emu that can deliver our citizens the benefits of stability, growth and jobs which the emu is supposed expected to ensure. therefore, in order to allow us to move forward on that road map, i would like to conclude by repeating myself and reiterating your call for the adoption of pending proposals such as the two-pack. let me stress that its adoption depends on the decisions of all actors involved in the process, including parliament, its political groups and each and every member of this parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, how to take care of public finances to make them sustainable is the main political and economic issue of this decade. to achieve this objective the main groups of this parliament believe that spending cuts are more effective than tax rises if they are growth oriented. this report also remarks the great importance of raising new revenues through fighting tax evasion, which is very high in some of the european countries. moreover, there are two very interesting ideas that i would like to remark on now: first, this parliament states that regions without any responsibility on the revenue side, only funded through central government transfers, are more prone to fail in their fiscal consolidation efforts. this kind of financing for regions far away from real fiscal federalism is bad for everyone. in the end it makes regions spend more than their real resources enhancing deficits and subsidies; this is the case of spain today. secondly, ministries and sub-sectors of government without concrete powers should be eliminated. it makes no sense to achieve fiscal consolidation efforts in our social services while they maintain useless bureaucracy. for instance in spain, why do we need a health ministry, an education ministry, a culture ministry when all competences in these fields are in the hands of nationalities and regions? signor presidente, onorevoli colleghi, vorrei infine ringraziare l'onorevole pallone per tutto il suo grande e buon lavoro.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid granted to the steel industry is compatible with the common market. i would like to thank the commission for being here to answer them and i am sorry that vice-president almunia, as the person responsible for competition policy, was not able to be present. the initiative to modernise the rules governing state aid at community level, launched by the commission in may last year, and which is the cause of the two proposals for regulations it has put forward, is very important. the control of state aid is, along with other aspects of competition policy, a fundamental part of the single market project. state aid can help to correct market failures and serve the public interest without harming the economy as a whole or causing market distortions by supporting undertakings that produce goods or services which would not otherwise be supplied. in difficult times, in the context of fiscal consolidation processes and a weak economy, it is more necessary than ever to ensure the efficiency of public spending. the same level of public spending can produce more and better impact with an intelligent public aid system that defends the rights of taxpayers and competitors, increases the quality of public spending and is developed in a framework of maximum legal certainty and minimum red tape to ensure its effectiveness. the commission is right to promote a review to ensure the proper application of state aid rules, focusing on those measures which may distort competition most severely, without creating unnecessary obstacles to measures which, without affecting cross-border trade or appreciably affecting competition, serve to achieve valuable objectives such as regional investment, development research and the promotion of culture, among others. these are laudable objectives, but they are not new because they have also been pursued by former competition policy makers. i would therefore like to express my best wishes to you, as this is the first plenary session of the year, that you will be more successful in this endeavour than your predecessors. this will require improvements to the system. the european court of auditors, in its state aid report, released in december 2011, already suggested the need to improve the control of national aid. the commission has found that 40% of the cases monitored for block exemption measures adopted at national level are problematic. action will therefore need to be taken in several directions, including strengthening participation and ex-ante consultation, improving coordination to ensure consistent application of the rules, improving compliance with measures taken at national level and full monitoring, including the provision of relevant information including the recovery of unlawful aid. the control of state aid is of great economic and political importance. it affects decisions taken by democratically elected authorities at national, regional and local level. the exercise of these powers and their scrutiny within the european union are part of the democratic functioning of the union. the new proposals have nevertheless been drawn up on the basis of article 109 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which confers on parliament a purely advisory role. other areas of economic governance have already been the subject of codecision, and one of the proposals put forward even amends an instrument previously adopted by codecision, concerning public service obligations in the transport sector. the commission must not forget that parliament is its source of legitimacy and its first ally. i would like the commission to confirm the following two points: firstly, whether it will take account of the opinions of the european parliament on the proposals referred to; and secondly, whether, in the context of a future amendment to the treaty, it would agree to the need to review the lack of co-decision in this area in order to harmonise this area with other aspects of economic regulation.
madam president, i too would like to join my colleagues in their surprise and discomfort at the indecision and confusion you are creating, commissioner. and i do not think we have given him any reason in parliament for such a situation. at the moment, in my country, in catalonia, a rule has just been issued, which the catalan government has promulgated, namely a rule of 44 tonnes, which has also created a stir within the country, precisely because of this confusion of not knowing exactly what to look for, especially because of an interpretation which creates such confusion. i believe that in the interests of legal certainty and road safety, such a situation should certainly not be created, and i would also ask you to clarify the situation as soon as possible so that there is no further confusion, either within the member states or between the regions.
mr president, mr kenny, welcome to this parliament and my best wishes for the irish presidency. i would like to draw attention to three of the priorities you have mentioned this morning: the first is that europe needs jobs; the second is that we must be particularly careful and sensitive about policies aimed at young people; and the third is that we must fight poverty, hunger and exclusion in the world and in europe. these three priorities require growth, and the outlook for next year is negative: depression in the euro zone, more unemployment. and we must avoid falling into the illusion that the reduction of pressure on the euro will create jobs by itself, that we can have monetary stability but still have no growth, no solution to the underlying problems. i ask you, as the president-in-office, to put pressure on the surplus countries - especially germany - to stimulate demand and investment and to help growth in the european union as a whole, and i also ask you, as president-in-office of the council, to push for the union budget to be a strong budget, which also allows for growth. in relation to young people, we would prefer that the youth guarantee should be a european policy, so that young people perceive that europeans, the european institutions, and not just their national governments, are attending to their problems.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, we believe that ireland is an example for all of us, because, thanks to budgetary adjustments, various structural reforms in the financial and banking sectors, and its rigorous and firm action, it has succeeded in alleviating its situation, increasing exports and growing. a perfect example. we in spain are certainly pleased, mr president, and we strongly hope that you will continue on this path which we believe will lead to success. the irish presidency rightly proposes as a priority the need to create the conditions for economic growth and job creation and to restore confidence in the european economy, ensuring its stability and, above all, the stability of the euro. this is a priority shared by spain and the rest of the european partners. that is why it is a matter of priority to make progress on the road map for genuine integration of economic and monetary union. banking supervision, the directives on bank resolution and recovery and on deposit guarantee funds, the establishment of a single european supervisor - as agreed in december - and allowing the european stability mechanism to serve as a means of direct recapitalisation of banks are priorities which we of course share from spain. the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 should also be concluded during your presidency. in any case, mr president, an agreement must preserve the cap quantities and political cohesion, which have shown their great capacity to create jobs and growth, as well as being one of the most important expressions of solidarity between europeans. it is also responsible for finalising the financing and definition of the transeuropean transport network and the common commercial policy. the united states will also, very importantly, announce shortly during its presidency its intention to launch negotiations to create a transatlantic internal market, which can be an important source of revenue and job creation. mr president, to define the scope of these negotiations and to set a workable timetable would be a way of bringing your mandate to a brilliant end. these are the wishes of the spanish delegation of the european people's party for ireland, and they wish her every success in her presidency.
madam president, i greet the irish presidency and wish it success in its term of office. ireland is indeed not only an example but also an emblem of the suffering caused by this crisis and its injustices, of the social, as well as economic and financial suffering, and that is why, yes, we welcome the hope that ireland can begin to recover from the financial turbulence, but we remember that the crisis has not only been economic and financial but also social, that it has affected the political node of citizenship and fundamental rights throughout the union, and that overcoming the crisis does not only consist in overcoming the financial turbulence. we therefore ask you, as president-in-office of the council, to make every effort to unblock schengen, which is an acquis on the free movement of persons pending resolution after the unilateral decision taken by the council to change its legal basis. that he presses for the unlocking of the asylum package, in particular eurodac, the procedure directive and the dublin regulation, which bears the name of the irish capital and is an emblem throughout europe of shared responsibility in the management of asylum seekers. it is also important that the council should continue to press for the unblocking of the regulation on access to information and public documents of the european union, which is also being delayed by the council, despite the fact that parliament is exerting all its pressure. and finally, if i may, that he also push forward with the directive on the protection of the union's financial interests, which will be the first step on the road to establishing a european public prosecutor's office in the fight against serious transnational crime, not just in the protection of the union's financial interests.
in writing. - i welcome the irish presidency's efforts in the field of audit policy and in putting the so-called 'big four' lobby in its place. let us put forward the spirit of mr barnier (who is not my political family) to put an end to the oligopoly and the perversity of its practice, which is so difficult for the economy! and do not let what happens in the famous play by the irish writer samuel beckett happen to you: wait desperately. i will therefore support you against the lobbies. - thank you. i'm from asturias, celtic region, and i trust you
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it includes amendments made by the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission to adapt the dangerous goods directive to comply with community law. the report presents only one amendment which is a formal adaptation of the directive without changing the substance of the directive, simply amending the extension period in several paragraphs of article 10 to extend the said period from one to two months by including the 2+2 formula in the time limits, thus allowing a reasonable time if parliament wishes to raise objections. this is a technical amendment which has been made to bring this directive into line with the law. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. the recast of the dangerous preparations directive (1999/45/ec) is proposed in order to codify amending acts and to align provisions regarding the commission’s power to adopt delegated and implementing acts to the lisbon treaty. the directive represents a bridging piece of legislation ensuring legal continuity within the legal sectoral framework, currently under fundamental reform due to the adoption of reach (regulation (ec) no 1907/2006). the dangerous preparations directive (dpd) regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions of two or more substances (chemical elements and their compounds). it remains applicable until 1 june 2015 within the transitional provisions of the clp (regulation (ec) no 1272/2008) as the eu’s new system on the classification and labelling of hazardous substances and mixtures, including the un’s globally harmonised system, in force since 20 january 2009. in addition, mixtures already placed on the market may continue to be supplied under the dpd rules until 1 june 2017. for substances, the clp rules have applied since 1 december 2010. the recast thus refers to an act that is about to be phased out.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains important points relating to the conservation of fishery resources, it increases the commission's powers over mediterranean resources. the mediterranean's fisheries resources are at risk and it is a priority to protect them, but they must be protected by the people who are linked to them and have exploited them sustainably for thousands of years. giving the commission the power to decide directly on the livelihood of many mediterranean stocks is a transfer of sovereignty which will undoubtedly cause problems for the social sustainability of mediterranean fish stocks. that is why, despite the fact that it contains important points, i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 is one of the first acts in the fisheries sector to be aligned to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. it is therefore of particular importance to find a legally-well-founded solution safeguarding parliament’s rights created by the treaty of lisbon. in the context of the alignment of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 to the new rules of the tfeu, the commission has prepared a draft proposal classifying the powers currently conferred on the commission by that regulation into measures of a delegated nature and measures of an implementing nature. the changes proposed concern only the types of acts to be adopted and do not modify the content of the measures. the commission did not align the regulation in all its aspects to the tfeu but concentrated on the provisions in which direct reference was made to the old comitology procedure contained in council decision no 1999/468/ec, deciding in each case whether the measure should be adopted as a delegated or as an implementing act.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it supposes ratification of the nagoya-kuala lumpur protocol on the protection of biodiversity. this protocol is a binding instrument which can raise the level of protection of natural resources against living modified organisms. this is the legal definition of genetically modified organisms which can cause incalculable damage to the biodiversity of the planet through contamination of other varieties. the ratification of this protocol increases its importance at international level so that it is ratified by more countries, so that it begins to be an effective binding instrument in the regions of the earth where there is more risk of pollution due to this type of organisms. i voted in favour of this report because of the threat to biodiversity posed by living modified organisms.
in writing. − in favour. the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on liability and redress will greatly contribute to achieving the objectives of the convention on biological biodiversity and of the cartagena protocol on biosafety. along the same lines as the european environmental liability directive of 2004, this supplementary protocol will specifically address liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity resulting from lmos. the ep endorses the council decision, which approves the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on liability and redress on behalf of the european union regarding those matters falling within the union’s competence.
in writing. - i voted against this report, as did my group, because it represents another twist in the economic austerity policies being pursued in economic and monetary union. this report is pure apologetics for the deficit reduction policies promoted by the commission which are destroying the economic and social fabric of the member states which have been intervened in by the commission. in view of the need to have a serious debate and to question the real effects of the austerity policies, this report has decided to cancel the debate in the house and to continue to delegate the commission's positions. without a reappraisal of the present policies, based on the reality and the data available to us today, the path of self-destruction of the european productive fabric is only continued in order to maintain the level of profit of the banking sector. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the epp rapporteur initially drafted a very liberal-conservative one-sided report advocating more austerity in combination with structural reforms so as to regain market confidence. however, several green inflexions and proposals aimed at rebalancing the original draft report were finally taken into account and duly integrated in the report. on the positive side, the report contains a recognition that the economic downturn threatens the consolidation efforts; a recognition that private debt is a major cause of the crisis, next to public debt; an explicit call for differentiated fiscal consolidation and encouragement to revise consolidation paths when the macroeconomic environment changes; a call to release assumptions made when assessing multiplier effects of expenditure on gdp; explicit wording stressing the need to safeguard eu2020-related and sustainable-growth-enhancing expenditure such as r&d, education, health and energy efficiency; a call for combating tax fraud & evasion; and a call for addressing macroeconomic imbalances in a symmetric rationale.
in writing. − how to take care of public finances to make them sustainable is the main political and economic issue of this decade. and to achieve this objective, this parliament believes that spending cuts are a much more effective strategy than tax rises, particularly if they are growth-oriented. this report also highlights the great importance of raising new revenue through fighting tax evasion. moreover, there are two very interesting ideas that i would like to draw your attention to: first, this parliament will state that regions that do not have responsibility on the revenue side and are funded only through central government transfers are more prone to fail in their fiscal consolidation efforts. second, ministries and sub-sectors of government without concrete powers should be eliminated, as it makes no sense to make fiscal consolidation efforts in our social services while we maintain useless bureaucracy.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a lack of transparency is one of the conditions that has led to the crisis we are experiencing. this problem is not only reflected in the functioning of the financial system, which has been the subject of some serious scandals, but also in some supervisory bodies, such as the rating agencies. i think it is a good idea to extend to these organizations working conditions which are commonplace in companies auditing all kinds of accounts. these include preventing and limiting conflicts of interest, avoiding the dissemination of rating notes at critical moments, which may encourage speculation, and supplementing the rating results with information on the method and data used to produce the rating. but what i think is definitive is that the agencies should bear the consequences of their errors effectively in relation to third parties, including compensation for unfairly caused damage. i think that forecast is going to be what we call in english the "hand of a saint".
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents another missed opportunity to put an end once and for all to the influence these rating agencies have on the financing capacity of the member states of the european union. my position is clear on the creation of a public financial rating agency that would allow sovereign financing of the states and not a private rating system that would allow the creation of multimillion-dollar deals on sovereign debts to the detriment of the peoples of europe. at present, three rating agencies monitor the rating of these debts and allow a speculative game that only benefits the financial sector. a public agency would be a perfect solution to the problems that financial rating has created for europe's sovereign debts. this report is not intended to solve anything, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − while the new regulation will improve the transparency of ratings, in particular by supplementing the current rating system (e.g. aaa) with an additional system of figures requiring the inclusion of historical data to support the probability of default on debt, it is regrettable that the european parliament has not been more ambitious in its regulation. the greens put forward proposals to avoid cross-shareholding between qualified entities and agencies, but a limit of only 10% was set. the greens also wanted clearer regulation to limit the reliance of the rating agencies on the financial markets, but we did not get the necessary majority either. it is important to note that rating agencies will not be able to issue recommendations on public policies of states. the legislation also requires qualifications to take a broader view of risk, including, for example, environmental risk. parliament also called on the commission to consider the possibility of setting up a european public rating agency. this is a key factor for the greens in their attempt to put an end to the business of rating agencies.
in writing. - i regret that regulation has been so long delayed, as i have pointed out in many questions, and i would also have liked to see more detailed rules on the liability of these agencies, in line with the progress made by the case law of the court of justice in sydney and the practices of the us supervisory body, the securities and exchange commission (sec).
in writing. − with this reform of the credit rating agencies regulation, i think we are taking a step towards addressing one of the chief complains of our citizens since the crisis started. three issues are relevant in this context. firstly, with this regulation we aim to break the link between regulation and credit ratings, which has given too much power to the latter. secondly, it is good to have a clear calendar of the sovereign ratings of the agencies. thirdly, i support the idea that the commission will produce a report on a public rating agency, but i would like this to be a foundation with a public-private partnership, in order to enhance its credibility.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because i believe that, although it seeks to improve the regulation of the activity of credit rating agencies, it means denying the possibility of a public rating agency and accepting private control of the sector. this report includes various technical amendments to improve control over rating agencies and to avoid speculative movements generated through their activity. all these technical provisions represent a positive step forward for the control of financial instruments which take advantage of rating changes to develop speculative movements which produce considerable profits for their holders at the expense of state financing. this technical control is ultimately the legitimization of the rating agencies and therefore, although i share the need for their regulation, i have voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it represents a step forward in the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks in the baltic sea. this species has gone from a situation of over-exploitation, which caused a sharp decline in its population, to an objective recovery that can allow its exploitation. as regards the technical details it develops, it provides for differentiated treatment between large and small fishermen who can now fish this species without a specific limit. the report also includes amendments limiting the delegation of powers to the commission so that it can only enjoy temporary delegations, as opposed to the indefinite ones previously provided for in the text. the measures adopted in this report are all intended to restore fishing for this species in a sustainable way, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i share the concern for the conservation of fishery resources. the report seeks to increase and establish viable technical criteria to enable the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources. articles relating to the different fishing gear permitted in european waters are amended to increase the requirements and protect juveniles of the different marine organisms which are the only guarantee of the regeneration of stocks. the report makes decision-making dependent on the scientific evaluation of marine stocks in order to have a tool to allow the modification of the gear in the light of an objective assessment of the state of the stocks. for all these reasons i considered this report important and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the protection of our ecosystems is of the utmost priority for me. this protection of juveniles has to go. it is my belief, respecting the communities, that life in those areas is being affected and strict surveillance by the actors should be involved. the measure that we have decided to be applied should have a sound scientific base and be understood by all the stakeholders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves a new regulation on the election of the vice-presidents of the chamber which may eventually allow minority groups to gain seats on the bureau. the voting rules for the election of the relevant important posts in parliament now require that minority groups need the support, or at least the complicity, of the majority of parliament. the report stipulates that when candidatures exceed the number of vacancies, voting will be by secret ballot, which may allow for a movement of votes towards candidates who may be considered more appropriate than those put forward by the majority groups in parliament. this report can improve the representation of minority groups on the bureau and that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, i support this report because i believe it is a decisive step towards the smart and cohesive growth advocated by strategy 2020. one of the values of the european social model has been the democratization of people's access to higher education. there are many young people with training who are a huge source of excellence, innovation and, consequently, the driving force for development and economic growth in europe. unfortunately, the crisis is closing the door to the world of work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. i would therefore like it to have a budget that is in line with its objectives and also to have its implementation not just a suggestion for the member states but an obligation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, as did the rest of my group, because it proposes the creation of an instrument to improve the situation of young europeans. the resolution proposes that the council establish a youth guarantee scheme to improve the chances of young people finding employment, recognising the very serious situation facing this segment of the population in the context of the economic crisis. the youth guarantee scheme would be financed through the european social fund to ensure an intervention strategy that would allow young people under the age of 25, or 30 if they have recently finished their studies, to receive a job offer or some form of training within 4 months. we believe that the creation of such a system is justified by the emergency situation of european youth and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. for there is an urgent need, a whole generation is being sacrificed on the altar of austerity, almost 14 million young people under 30 in europe are neither in employment nor in training. the cost of this marginalization is 150 billion euros a year for the european economy, whereas the implementation of the youth guarantee would cost only 21 billion! the youth guarantee, which the greens have been promoting for years, is a measure that is now working in denmark and austria. the french prime minister, jean-marc ayrault, committed himself at the great national conference against poverty to implement it quickly. i take note of this commitment, but i would remind you that the guarantee will only work if two conditions are met: the introduction of an income of autonomy, because too many young people are forced to work alongside their studies or training, which leads many of them to fail, and the introduction of strict rules to regulate the traineeships. the commission must act to put an end to the cynical exploitation of young workers, who are pursuing short-term contracts disguised as internships.
in writing. − spain has the highest youth unemployment rate (56.5% in september 2012 informs eurostat) of the eu. spanish governments have been unable to give a solution to this serious problem in years, that is why catalan people welcome this commission proposal with optimism and hope for a better future for our young people. although i am conscious of the different difficulties of the implementation of this measure, i will be following the application of the youth guarantee schemes in all member states, especially in spain. we will not let the spanish government play with the future of our sons and daughters anymore.
mr president, as the representative of a region, the basque country, with a high degree of industrial activity and therefore very sensitive to energy costs, i welcome with satisfaction this commitment to incorporate energy into cohesion policies. it is very timely to offer the regions the possibility of being more proactive in their energy diversification policies. unfortunately, the necessary reflection we are adopting today will not help to solve other urgent problems in the energy market which require immediate intervention. among them, the alteration of the rules of competition already produced by the legislation applying to indirect co2 emissions with a view to meeting the targets for reducing carbon emissions by 2020 would stand out. here, it is european legislation that creates a clear distortion, by considering state aid and the differences in budgetary availability between northern and southern countries. some energy-intensive sectors are beginning to feel the effects on their balance sheets and employment potential, undermining the investment and technological effort they have made in recent years to be able to take the lead in competitiveness in their sectors. i therefore call on the european parliament and the european commission to take action and find solutions to this serious energy problem.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because it involves a process of energy integration in the union which includes the complete liberalisation of the sector. the focus of this report is on the use of cohesion policy to implement access to energy throughout the union and the modernisation of existing energy generation and heating systems. however, this improvement in the network is based on the complete liberalisation of the sector throughout europe and emphasising the importance of competitiveness in the sector. it is considerably vague with respect to permitted practices, allowing the exploitation of gas by hydraulic fracturing, highly damaging to the environment. energy is a vital sector for the european economy and leaving it to the private interests of certain business groups will mean the end of member states' energy policy and the submission to these private interests. that is why i voted against.
in writing. − against. the original draft report represented the particular interests of rapporteur kolarska-bobinska, in particular in its initial paragraph 12 that explicitly stated that ‘not only low-carbon, but all low-emission sources of energy, such as shale gas, ought to be accepted, including those of a transitional nature’. the explicit reference to shale gas was deleted at committee level. however, other important issues remained, making it impossible for us to vote in favour.
in writing. − the european union has been playing a leading role in the world on green energies and we have to ensure that it will continue doing it. boosting the public and private investment on green energies has to go hand in hand with scientific knowledge and economic criteria, thus making our investments economical and social truly in line with the 2020 strategy. without reasonably cheap energy our companies will not be competitive enough in the globalised world and thus will be facing unfair competition from third countries.
mr president, i want to support my group's position on this report and thank sylvie goulard for the effort she is making in coordinating this historic work. the difficulties of today will seem unbelievable tomorrow when we see how much we are better off by this firm and real step towards the real economic union we need. the union is legitimised in the eyes of its citizens when it demonstrates its capacity to improve their quality of life. today, this starts with offering solutions to the crisis, and this report gives a good measure of what we are lacking: a real monetary union, fiscal unity, discipline and loyalty between all the states and regions with their own treasuries - like the basque - to eliminate suspicions and make possible the eurobonds, which are one of the solutions against the attacks of the markets. it also stresses the need to legitimize this integration process in a democratic way and recalls that the joint responsibility we need is only possible under these conditions. i therefore support and will support all efforts in this direction.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new missed opportunity to really tackle the crisis and is just another text along the lines of austerity. this type of economic policy is the real cause of the worsening of the effects of the financial crisis and its transfer to the real economy. the report welcomes the efforts of the member states in budgetary control and proposes debt-sharing figures, such as 'eurobills', but only accessible to non-participating states. spain will not be able to benefit from these instruments and will only be able to serve to increase the distance between northern europe and southern europe, which is suffering from the most serious financial problems. the report continues to defend competitiveness over the sovereignty of states and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the goulard report on the possibility of introducing eurobonds, in which parliament reiterates its commitment to the mutualisation of sovereign debt, pressing the commission and the council to introduce elements which will actually break the vicious circle between sovereign debt and private risk. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ending speculation on the risk premium and interest rate of euro area public debt is crucial to getting out of the crisis. job creation, social justice and poverty eradication are not dependent on risk premium or agency rating, which are made on orthodox economic axioms. if we want a different kind of public policy, we need to limit the power of agencies, big financial lobbies, in determining european economic policy.
in writing. − i have supported this very good report of mrs goulard as i am of the opinion that it is time to put on the political agenda the issuance of some kind of common debt. the four steps that are envisaged in this report are quite sensible, particularly the issuance of eurobills and putting in place an european redemption fund that ties common issuance of debt to tight fiscal discipline. i hope that the commission is able to react in the coming months to this report with a new legislative proposal.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria [2013/2511 (rsp) ]. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president and distinguished members of the european parliament, permit me to update you, on behalf of high representative/vice-president catherine ashton, on the eu’s assessment of the situation in syria. i am sure that all of us here would agree that the political solution to the heart-wrenching and almost two-year long conflict in syria is not yet in sight. the political process that the eu and the international community have been supporting with true resolve has, unfortunately, not moved far enough as yet. conversely – and there are also no signs that the assad regime has moved in its own intransigence – we all witnessed the defiance of president assad in his unacceptable speech, as recognised by many of our supporters and joint special representative brahimi. from our side, the eu’s official statements remain unambiguous: there is no future for assad in the political future of syria. the eu has incessantly worked with all partners on the bilateral, multilateral and interinstitutional levels to address the whole array of pressing issues. political efforts continue, and there is no need to recall all of the daily diplomacy that operates in brussels as well as in european and world capitals. from our side, we can count the most recent statement of the high representative on assad’s speech, the european council and fac conclusions of december that covered very broad areas of our approach to the syrian tragedy. we must also mention the extension of the sanctions regime, official recognition of the syrian coalition of revolutionary and opposition forces as legitimate representatives of the syrian people, or support to the third committee, as well unhrc resolutions. and we will keep on examining if further sanctions can be adopted in order to put pressure on the regime. the eu commends and continues to support the mission of mr brahimi. his perseverance in reaching a workable solution over the last months has earned him much deserved respect. we do hope that within the international community we are nearing a compromise on how to best assist syria’s future. here we will be watching very closely a report from mr brahimi that he will present to the un security council on 29 january. he could not attend the foreign affairs council in january, but we have invited him to the fac in february. at the same time, the eu has managed to reinforce actions addressing the challenges faced at present by the syrian population. they range from the increasing flow of hundreds of thousands of refugees into the syrian neighbourhood countries during an extraordinarily harsh winter and continuing massive internal displacement of millions of syrians to possible chemical incident scenarios and the consolidation of the opposition. the european council tasked the foreign affairs council to work on all options to support and help the opposition and to enable greater support for the protection of civilians. this issue will be tackled at the next foreign affairs council on 31 january. although financial assistance is only part of the solution, it does help in easing some of these challenges. since the last debate here in the european parliament, the eu has almost doubled all types of assistance in and outside syria. today, over eur 500 million (of which over eur 350 million is in humanitarian aid) go to long-term actions on supporting refugees, syrian youth and the general population particularly affected by the unrest, including skills, education and mentoring for refugees. the eu is also funding activities, such as the regional protection programme, aimed at building up the resilience of displaced syrian people as well as enhancing the capacity of communities which host them in neighbouring countries. more, of course, is certainly needed, and improved channels of delivery will have to be devised, given harsher weather conditions descending on refugees and internally-displaced syrians. i would like to particularly commend the work done in this field by commissioner georgieva and her staff. our efforts also try to prepare for the day after and the transition, which will include financial assistance to support political transition, institutional and economic recovery as well as support to the population and post-conflict accountability. the eu is also preparing preventive measures in case of a potential chemical weapon incident. at the moment the focus is more on the trans-border element of this threat, on which we cooperate closely with syria’s neighbours such as jordan and turkey. in all of our financial interventions, the eu uses a four-pronged approach. it includes ongoing support to the multilateral institutions such as the un and ingos and civil society organisations, alongside just-being-rolled-out support of local syrian ngos and civilian structures together with structured support for the opposition. as you know, the eu co-chairs the un humanitarian forum and chairs the donor coordination work within the friends of syria working group on economic recovery. we are working with our partners to improve channels of our delivery, planning and gap analysis. the eu will also participate in the donor conference initiated by the un secretary-general ban ki-moon and hosted by the kuwaiti emir on 30 january. while on one side we work towards a political solution, on the other we do not lose sight of the human dimension of the syrian tragedy that has unfolded in the past two years. it has resulted in over 60 000 dead, 2.5 million internally displaced syrians and 500 000 refugees; numbers which, unfortunately, are rising as we speak. as commissioner georgieva will tell you later, we are working tirelessly every day to alleviate the suffering of the syrian people. but we all agree that such a tragedy cannot go on without more action and initiatives. i know that some of you are of the opinion that today, more direct military assistance to the opposition should be envisaged. but such an option is still very divisive and runs the risk of hardening the conflict. this is why, in spite of all the difficulties and the doubts on the shortcomings, we must remain determined to keep the course, by supporting mr brahimi’s efforts, assisting the opposition and relentlessly calling for the syrian leadership to face up to reality in the country and at last put an end to all violence.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the horror being experienced in syria has exceeded all limits. yesterday, 90 students taking their exams at the university of aleppo added to the unbearable figure of 60 000 people referred to by the presidency, and i would like to take this opportunity to express my best wishes to them for their semester. she herself has reminded us of the facts of this tragedy: five hundred thousand refugees in neighbouring countries, two million and a half thousand internally displaced persons in syria and absolutely intolerable damage to infrastructure and housing. we were told that bashar al-assad would fall sooner or later, that it was a matter of time. that fall hasn't happened yet. and we were also told that, with russia's involvement, russia would eventually give up its positions in the security council. the truth is that russia's position has been a complete chimera and it must answer to the international community for the attitude it is maintaining in the face of this situation. the special envoy of the un secretary-general and the arab league met last friday in geneva with the deputy secretaries of the united states and russia. 'by the way, mr president, i have not seen any reference to this and i do not know whether there were representatives of the european union; they have certainly not appeared in the reports or in the media.' this week mr brahimi is in egypt and he has said that the situation is not only bad, very bad, but that it is likely to get worse and that if this conflict were to continue for another year it would result in 100,000 more deaths than the 60,000 that have already occurred. and he has said that either the legitimate demands of the syrian people are met or the situation in syria is going to turn into a hell as if they are not already living in hell. and in the face of this situation, the international community is acting as if it's doing something, following a really tragic script. that is, as long as the conflict does not go beyond the syrian national sphere - and there are obviously risks of it being projected onto the whole region - and as long as chemical weapons are not used - and again we must applaud the courage and determination of france, whose president has made very forceful statements in this regard - time is still being gained to see whether assad finally succeeds in crushing the opponents, which also does not seem likely, or to see whether the opposition coordinates, organizes and, indeed, the fall of the regime actually occurs. in view of this situation, mr president, the international community must take a decision. we had a very interesting debate yesterday on mali, a conflict which has, indeed, very significant negative potentials, and the international community has been able to take decisions. in this house, on all the occasions when we have discussed this matter, we have spoken of the french initiative for a humanitarian corridor and we have spoken of the possibility of establishing a no-fly zone, which naturally requires a certain unanimity in the united nations security council. but what is clear is that progress must be made in this situation. and it is also clear, mr president, that this conflict has a humanitarian dimension. and i would particularly like to thank mrs georgieva for her efforts in this regard. but let's not kid ourselves. the citizens of the european union are not only looking to the european union to respond to the serious humanitarian crisis that this conflict is producing. what they are hoping for is that we will be able to stop this bloodbath, that we will be able to arbitrate measures that can really end this shameful situation and that we will be able to rise to the occasion, which demands that in these conditions and at this moment the international community in general, and the european union in particular, be able to put an end to the terrible suffering, mr president, that the syrian people are suffering.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start with where the humanitarian crisis in syria is heading: unfortunately, from bad to worse, and with the worst still to come. we have seen in the last weeks a very significant deterioration in conditions in syria, because of the combined impact of three factors. first, intensified fighting; second, economic conditions are now catastrophic; and third, the winter this year is, unfortunately, fierce and is affecting people dramatically. regarding the fighting: not only has it intensified, but more often than not, atrocities are being carried out. while the assad regime carries the vast majority of the blame, atrocities are also carried out by the other side, and that makes conditions for the delivery of humanitarian aid particularly difficult. second, what is now hitting people as well are factors like increase of fuel and food prices, and lack of food. we are now faced with starvation in the places with the most severe fighting like aleppo, idlib, hama and homs. in these conditions, we are doing all we can to get help to people, and i want to particularly address the comments that have been made by ms flautre on how exactly european assistance works in syria. from the very early days of the crisis we have engaged in three ways as the leading funder, as the one donor that has a presence on the ground, and also with very active humanitarian advocacy through the syrian humanitarian forum that has met seven times, by time and again pursuing – including with the opposition – our fight for respect for international humanitarian law, so that people at least do not die because of ignorance of the existence of this law. because of our engagement, we have moved access to affected syrian populations quite dramatically forward. in the beginning, assad would allow only the icrc inside syria. our relentless advocacy led to eight international ngos, seven of which are european, now operating inside syria and also to over 90 civil society organisations, mostly community organisations, to be allowed to be the delivery mechanism for humanitarian aid in addition to the syrian red crescent. true, left to assad, he would have liked the syrian red crescent to be the only vehicle, but we have moved way beyond this point and today one out of every three syrians gets help because of what we do, what we fund (the numbers have been spelled out), but also what we do to provide more space for humanitarian workers. we are engaging with the opposition. we have had a series of meetings with the aid arm of the opposition based in cairo, and i can assure you that we are pursuing every possible channel to get help to people inside as well as to the refugees, whose numbers are growing. i have visited the region twice. it is heartbreaking to see what is happening. i recall talking to a young girl from syria, now a refugee in jordan, who has not been to school for two years, and i am thinking of the lives that have been shattered, not only the people who died but those whose future is being buried by this conflict. the education system in syria is gone. over 700 schools are now home to internally-displaced people. the health system of syria is gone. not only do the wounded not get help, but immunisation and vaccination has practically stopped. so yes, we are facing a grave humanitarian crisis, and it is absolutely paramount that we work hard. for the only way for this crisis to end is, unfortunately, not in the hands of humanitarians, it is in the hands of politicians. some have spoken here for in favour of a military option. we have been in the libya crisis, and i can tell you that syria is not libya. syria is much better militarily. when i talk to people in the region, they tell me that, if there was military action, they fear that would lead to the unleashing of chemical weapons, with much graver humanitarian consequences than we currently have. so a military solution is not going to deliver results of a kind that would make things better. it is the political solution that we all have to raise our voices to urge for. i want to finish by saying that we have also been in the lead to make sure that there will be a very high level of attention paid to the humanitarian crisis. the secretary-general will chair a meeting that the emir of kuwait will host on 30 january. we, the eu, have been a strong voice for this meeting to take place, because the needs require funding of a magnitude that is not yet there, with the exception of us. for the honour of our member states: 23 out of 27 have contributed generously to help the syrian people. we have called on our civil protection mechanism twice. eight of our member states have delivered in-kind assistance to turkey and jordan, and i know that if we called on them again, they would be there. but we need everybody to step up to the plate because, unfortunately, the political solution that is the only way forward is not yet in sight, and i fear that means terrible suffering for millions of syrian people and a terrible risk of a spillover impact for the whole neighbourhood. i want to assure this house that the humanitarian team of the commission has been engaged. people are risking their lives. i have a staff member that has been shot at. of the humanitarian community, 15 people have died and many more have been wounded. we are persevering, we are carrying the commitment of europe towards the suffering of innocent people with our greatest possible commitment.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to firstly thank all members for the very constructive interventions. i think that we all share a genuine concern and a deep sense of urgency in trying to address this horrendous situation which i think has been very well outlined by the commissioner. it will require the determination and the cooperation of all of the institutions of the european union and indeed of all of the international community to find ultimately a political solution, as the commissioner has said. in my remarks, i wish to respond to some of the points raised in the questions asked and i apologise if i miss anybody or any point which has been raised. i want to begin by agreeing with the condemnation of the atrocity in the university in aleppo yesterday. i am sure that everybody in this house shares in that condemnation. i also agree with mr salafranca about the potential catastrophe, loss of life and deepening humanitarian crisis if this conflict continues indefinitely into the future and that is why we must redouble our efforts. specifically in response to the question about the talks in geneva and the tripartite meeting which took place: the eu was not there. this was the second meeting between mr brahimi, the us and russia and it was mr brahimi’s plan to keep that particular forum, that particular dialogue between the three; and we understand that. however, we are in constant contact and communication of course with him and his team. we are constantly updated and informed as to the progress that he is making and the discussions and dialogue which he has. it is of course the commitment of the eu to be fully engaged in every possible form where there is an opportunity to contribute. in answer to ms de keyser, the eu is participating in all efforts relating to accountability both in geneva and in new york and that will continue to be the case. a number of points were raised by ms schaake and ms flautre. we are all aware of the shortcomings of our combined efforts, whether on the diplomatic or humanitarian front. it is not a perfect process, that is for sure, but the situation i think cannot just be simplified as sometimes it is easy to do. we need to look into all the possible options, all aspects and all opportunities for cooperation with ngos, as commissioner georgieva has pointed out, and the different civilian organisations to see how we can help them, how we can best support them, how we can ensure that humanitarian aid meets the target which have been set out by members and indeed by the commissioner, which is civilians who are suffering for a variety of reasons not least the deteriorating weather conditions. we are acting with each of them in a very concrete way, in a very coordinated way. we are doing everything that we can to support them on the ground. that commitment, that determination and in practice those steps are being taken by the eu and will continue to be. in summary, i would like to say that the cooperation between the european parliament and the institutions is extremely important in order to carry forward the day to day work on the humanitarian front and indeed on the political front. we have to provide every possible opportunity to provide support, to help the opposition and to enable better protection for civilians; and that is, i think, an immediate and very pressing priority. we will be focusing on finding better ways to make our efforts more effective. there will be an opportunity to review the sanctions and the very steps that have been taken at the next foreign affairs council. intensive regional cooperation efforts are also underway to ensure that the spill-over effects from the syrian conflict is contained. this was mentioned by a number of members but i will not name everybody. we will do everything we can to contain that and to ensure that there is no further destabilisation of what is, i think we can all acknowledge, an extremely volatile region.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by mr mario mauro, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an association and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of iraq, of the other part (10209/2012 - c7-0189/2012 - 2010/0310 (nle)) (a7-0411/2012), and - the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the declaration will be presented by mrs creighton, president-in-office of the council, in the absence of mrs ashton, and mr mauro will be replaced by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra in presenting the recommendation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, mr mauro has indeed had to leave strasbourg and has asked me to present his report on relations with iraq, which i am very happy to do. before i present mr mauro's reflections on this report, i should like to say, mr president, in connection with the previous debate, that i too would have liked the high representative/vice-president of the commission, mrs ashton, to have been present, but i would like to remind you that her absence from this chamber is due to a commitment to the political forces of this parliament. i would like to point out - i do not know if it is my place - that she is not in kosovo today, but is in brussels, meeting the foreign minister of mali and preparing the extraordinary council of ministers which will deal with this important subject tomorrow. i would like to pass on to you, mr president, the reflections which i would like to share with the rest of the house on behalf of the rapporteur for this report, mr mauro. firstly, this agreement represents the first contractual relationship between the european union and iraq, not only in the commercial field but also in many other fields, and its purpose is to consolidate relations between the two countries. the agreement devotes a major chapter to cooperation activities in the fields of health, education, the fight against poverty, the promotion of transparency and effective governance. as regards trade aspects, this agreement, which is not a preferential agreement, incorporates the basic principles of the world trade organisation, of which iraq is not a member, and some of the clauses have a strong connotation relating to important political issues: the fight against weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking, the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, especially of ethnic and religious minorities, which are the most exposed to risks in this region. this resolution, mr president, pays particular attention to human rights and the participation of women in post-conflict reconstruction processes and at the highest levels of political and economic life, and calls on the iraqi authorities to take the necessary steps to develop a civil society which can play an important role in the political process. it also called for measures to stimulate the emergence of an independent, pluralistic and professional media sector and advocated that the european union should support iraq's national reconciliation on the basis of a political dialogue that excludes no one. it called on the iraqi government to respond to the concerns about respect for human rights, which have been expressed continuously through measures to support the work of the high commissioner for human rights and giving priority to the fight against impunity and to the reform of the law and the judicial system. the fact that a resolution on the future of iraq and its relations with the european union has been added to the draft recommendation on the agreement is due to the fact that iraq is now at a critical stage. this phase, which has been marked by the withdrawal of american troops, began some years ago and is precisely at the moment of the country's democratic transition towards the creation of a coalition government which takes account of the agreement reached between the various political forces in iraq. in this context, the european union cannot fail to play its part and to provide the necessary support to the iraqi authorities in order to contribute to the reconstruction and development of the country, to national security and stability, to overcoming the humanitarian emergency and to the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that it is important for the european union to make a strategic commitment to the future of iraq. this association and cooperation agreement is a very important signal in this direction, but nevertheless this road is long and i am convinced that the european union must live up to its ambitions and, of course, this resolution is clearly intended to serve to support that purpose.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, madam minister, my group is very critical of this agreement because i think we are missing a golden opportunity for the european union as such to distance itself from what that war was in march we will celebrate ten years of it , an illegal, illegitimate war based on lies. the international community was deceived: there were no weapons of mass destruction and saddam hussein was not al qaeda; but what was intended was to hide the reality of that war, and that is oil. there was no other reason and that's why he had to distance himself from the azores photo. yes, that picture of three presidents of member states with mr bush - the man primarily responsible for this illegitimate war - but we must not forget aznar, barroso and tony blair. that was the picture, and that picture is in the imagination of every iraqi who has been systematically bombed from the air, 10,000 meters high, watching their country become devastated, becoming more insecure. i regret the recent attacks: 27 dead, 168 injured, in a total misrule, in a country whose social conditions are worse than before the war. of course, oil is doing very well and the oil business, whose profits are not going to the iraqi people for their reconstruction: that is a business. my group therefore completely dissociates itself from this vision because it misses this opportunity. war cannot be a business, and this war, the second preventive war outside the un charter treaty, outside the security council, was waged thinking only of the arms business, the arms industry, and thinking only of the interests of the great empires, which are the ones who want to control the oil routes. no, it's a wasted opportunity. our group therefore regrets that the opportunity was not taken to send a clear message to the people of iraq: 'look, we are going into partnership, but with the will to do the fundamental thing, which is to help you to get up and not to let a minority of multinationals continue to run the oil business'.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, thank you very much for your kind words, which i appreciate. i would like once again to thank members for a very comprehensive debate which i think has touched on a wide variety of very important issues which are really central to this issue. from what i have heard in the course of this debate, notwithstanding the very genuine and very serious and grave concerns which have been expressed, it is clear that there is, broadly speaking, very strong support for the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and iraq. i welcome that. i think it is extremely important that, as we support iraq on the road to democracy – building stability, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms – we do so from the position of being a relevant actor. i think one member, ms nicolai, made the point that it is essential that the eu become a relevant actor rather than just simply criticising from afar. i think that is the risk that we run if we do not fully engage in this process and seize this opportunity. there are many very relevant and important comments which i have registered which have been made by members – ms saïfi, ms koppa, mr kelam – raising issues about the need for development, the need to pave the way for iraqi membership of the icc and to develop a partnership through this process with iraq, while also recognising the major challenges that exist in terms of religious minorities. many members have made reference to the very serious question of christian minorities, prisoners’ rights, the rise in executions, which i addressed in my opening remarks in respect of the death penalty, and the abuse of the death penalty, which is a major cause for concern. i will just try to address some specific questions and issues that have been raised. in answer to ms gomes, we definitely want to give more autonomy and to improve our delegation accommodation in baghdad, there is no question about that, and we are working on it. but of course it is necessary to have the appropriate financial resources in order to do that, and that is a challenge which we all face in the eu. in response to mr stevenson, ms gomes and many other members, i share your concern about the ongoing events taking place in iraq. in the different communities there is certainly a large degree of uneasiness and tension, which is mounting, and major challenges face the administration there, as well as the civilian population. i think again it is important to stress that these tensions are the very reason why this agreement is so important. it is more crucial that the eu remain close to the iraqi nation, the iraqi government, and the iraqi population, in order to make progress and to help to deal with this big challenge of the tensions between the various communities; that we build understanding and support; and that we do it from a position of influence and leverage. as i mentioned, many of you – i think the majority of speakers – expressed deep concern about the christian community. here again, i think there is genuine reason for concern. it is an issue that has been raised constantly in our ongoing dialogue with the iraqi authorities. it has been raised again and again, and the vice-president/high representative and her team are monitoring the situation very closely and are very vigilant about developments in that respect. the same can be said about camp ashraf, which has been raised by a number of members, together with the transfer to camp liberty. this is an extremely complex and very significant challenge, not only with regard to the present conditions of all those who have been transferred to the new camp, but also to the whole question about the future and how we can deal with the challenge of accommodating and finding options for those who are presently in camp liberty. i think this very clearly requires constructive engagement from eu member states: a willingness to face this challenge and put in place practical solutions. it also requires the full cooperation of our international partners, and we are working on that. it is an ongoing process. i know that at times it is slower than we might like, but that is a reflection of the challenge that is involved. we are giving it constant attention and it is under discussion, as i said, amongst the member states and indeed with our international partners. i just want to reiterate the point that i think this agreement is extremely important. it is a key tool, a tool that can be used constructively by the european union to promote and defend our common interests and our shared values. that is a very powerful tool that we cannot underestimate. just to conclude, let me stress that the eu is deeply committed to underpinning the new partnership with continued assistance and, despite iraq’s significant resources, targeted support – as has been pointed out by a number of members – is, clearly, still critically needed. the eu will focus on delivering capacity-building programmes and technical assistance where they are most needed and where they have the greatest potential impact. for iraq remains today, more than ever, very clearly, an indispensable strategic partner with the european union at a moment when, as i said earlier, the whole region is facing major challenges and really does need to build a solid and very serious partnership with europe and with our allies. i would like to just conclude by again thanking mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, and particularly the rapporteur mr mauro, for the work that has been done on this file.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, i have taken note of all the comments, opinions and concerns that have been raised during the debate and i intend to pass them on to the rapporteur of this report in preparation for the vote to be held tomorrow in the house. secondly, mr president, i have had the opportunity to note that there are members of this house who are still clinging - i would say in an obsessive and somewhat demagogic way - to the past. and only those who are afraid to build and plan for the future cling to the past in that way. the iraq war was ten years ago, the world has changed substantially and now we are in another war. despite the fragility of the transition process and of the institutions in iraq, despite the violence, despite the human rights situation, it is clear that the european union must continue to strive to contribute to the dividends of peace, understanding, harmony, reconciliation and reconstruction in that country. and thirdly and lastly, mr president, i would say that this agreement must serve to address the concerns and to support the concerns that have been expressed in this house about the human rights situation of the christian and other minorities, of women, and also the rights that are humanitarian in nature to the people who are now in the liberty camp. this parliament has spoken out repeatedly on this issue, as minister creighton has acknowledged in her summary of the concerns raised by several members on this occasion. and i want to tell you, mr president, that i have taken very good note of the intention to mobilise substantial resources of the european union to be put at the service of the united nations in order that the humanitarian law which assists these people may be guaranteed.
mr president, as the minister has said, we are witnessing not only a great tragedy, the one at the tazreen factory, but also a serious warning which should make us reflect this afternoon on the whole of the elements which make up a situation which is absolutely unjustifiable from the point of view of humanity and justice, and that is that there are millions of workers in the world who are performing their tasks in conditions of genuine slavery and without the minimum conditions of health and safety at work. i would like to refer only to paragraph 10 of our resolution, because it seems to me extremely important, without forgetting that the other issues raised are also important. but i think it is very important to recall this evening the need to implement the legislation of the international labour organisation, especially the eight conventions which are the most important, and the need to extend worldwide legislation which takes account of health and safety, whatever the country, and i would add whatever the company. and it is true that europe has a multitude of weapons to spread this concern throughout the world: the ilo, its conventions and legislation. but we must not only teach lessons, we must also set an example. today, at this moment, there are many voices in europe saying that we must back down on our standards of health and safety, of fighting against exploitation and of fighting against the elements that keep workers at risk, and they are talking about small businesses. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we must reflect this evening: that it is our duty to teach lessons, but also to set an example.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, i would first of all like to express my condolences to the families of the victims and the injured of the tragic fires in the textile factories in bangladesh and pakistan. these terrible accidents should make us think. the european union must support developing countries by encouraging their exports, but we must also require them to comply with minimum standards of safety at work, respect for workers' rights, ensure that child labour is not used or that environmental protection measures are respected, so that we do not have to mourn the deaths of more victims of similar accidents. we are witnessing, mr president, social and environmental dumping in many developing countries, not only in textiles but in many companies and factories in various sectors. these abusive practices, which are not legal, are contrary to the health and rights of local workers and also cause great harm to european businesses and workers. the european union must ensure that international human rights, labour rights and environmental standards are respected in developing countries. we must take radical measures and make the import of products made in these countries subject to the same basic health, safety and environmental standards that we apply to products made within our borders. in short, the first thing to do is to ensure safety and respect for human rights, for workers and for developing countries, and to prevent tragedies such as those mentioned, while at the same time protecting the rights of european companies and workers against unfair competition.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, we are very concerned about the fires in bangladesh. grief for the dead and injured, and concern for the working conditions and rights of workers, which do not exist. six hundred workers have died since 2005. a trade agreement has more than just an economic objective. it also has objectives of developing and consolidating structures. the trade unions in bangladesh had denounced the working conditions and employment discrimination. bangladesh is a big textile factory. it's the second largest exporter in the world, because the multinationals, who know the production chain, the big brands, are buying in bangladesh, because it's much more profitable for them. their destination is europe. international agreements - the responsibility of this parliament and also of this commission and the council - must be binding on the ilo standards, health and safety at work, and corporate responsibility of companies. and how can we not, in the event of accidents, have access to justice, which in many cases they do not have?
mr president, i thank mr barnier for his proposal and i also know and trust the capacity and efficiency of the instruments he usually presents to this house, but we are still faced with a very alarming situation. as you know, there is a huge deficit of confidence in europe and in the capacity of the political class. one of the key points is the perception by the public of the existence of a situation of high corruption. that is the perception of the citizens, although in reality the percentage in the facts is not such, but that perception is there. and, above all, what is worse, there is a great sense of impunity, that is, that corruption cases are not punished enough, that we do not have instruments precisely to punish them. that perception has even reached my country, where there has just been a survey, which not only criticises the political class, but above all shows that perception of corruption which, although in fact it is not massive, is nevertheless perceived as strong. in addition, there is talk in my country of the absence of complaints and of a link with bribery in transactions. that is why i ask you, mr barnier, to act as soon as possible with these reliable instruments.
madam president, i too, of course, share the contradiction between the misunderstood freedom of trade and the necessary equality of rights for all passengers who, in the face of confusion, the lack of transparency in prices, the lack of clarity in information and the enormous difficulties in carrying out complaints, are subject to abuse and even ill-treatment by the staff of the airlines who, under great pressure from the airlines themselves, end up mistreating passengers, families with children and the elderly. in the case of women, we need a handbag in addition, in which we usually carry the documentation, because this bag is also treated as one more bag. and even more so at regional airports, which are being blackmailed and whose commercial possibilities are also being restricted. more information alone - as you have said, commissioner - is not enough. in the face of all these contradictory rules, we have always needed clear and uniform rules. even in the case of the spanish law, which facilitates and protects the passenger, at regional airports the monoculture companies invoke security to continue with the abuses. we therefore need the commission to harmonize once and for all and to give rules which facilitate the rights and equal rights of passengers.
madam president, commissioner, we know, because it was reiterated this morning, that certain airlines continue to impose abusive clauses on passengers under the pretext of guaranteeing them lower market prices. they set confusing tariffs, which mislead our consumers. these are situations where the restriction of hand luggage is one of the most frequently complained about in europe. often these obstacles are impossible to overcome. we must draw up a regulation in which the information is clear and transparent. it is urgent that measures be taken now, rules at european level, to ensure information and transparency, including the price of the ticket. the measures for baggage and the objects that can be carried in the cabin must be clearly defined, commissioner, in order to guarantee the effective exercise of rights, to ensure safety and efficiency, to eliminate abuses and to provide assurances to air passengers.
madam president, there is a fairly broad agreement on the restrictions we are talking about, which clearly violate the rights of airline passengers recognised by community law and cause damage to shops. it seems appropriate to improve these rules to limit arbitrariness as much as possible, but while we are undertaking the reforms or harmonization which this parliament has repeatedly called for and is now calling for - a process which will take some time, moreover - we could do other things: one of them is to strengthen control measures, to encourage the pressure that those concerned can exert on airlines and to increase the sanctions that airlines can receive for engaging in fraudulent practices. the cooperation of those concerned is essential for this. i would therefore ask the commissioner whether he thinks it would be a good idea to launch a specific campaign to make passengers more aware of the rights that these practices infringe. could there be a possibility of establishing at airports used by these airlines some kind of documentary or digital advice to facilitate this increase in awareness and the materials on which the control bodies can decide? as the airlines are known and the preferred airports of operation are also known, i would like to know whether the commission would be willing to launch such a campaign.
member of the commission. − mr president, it would be fair to say that the negotiations of the eu-mercosur association agreement have not made the progress the european commission would have liked. for sure we have done good work since resuming negotiations in 2010 at the request of mercosur itself. however, so far these negotiations have mainly focused on the normative part of the agreement, that is to say the ground rules and principles that should provide the basis for commitments between both sides to open up their respective markets. now these are very important issues and we have achieved some valuable progress on several chapters, for instance on rules of origin and services investment. however, the negotiations have not yet gone into the heart of the matter, namely on the additional access that we have to give to each other for industrial and agricultural products, services, investments and public procurement through the reduction of tariffs or the dismantling of other barriers. it is clear that the current approach has reached its limits as recognised by both sides at the end of the last negotiation round. the eu has argued that the best way to make progress now would be though an exchange of market access offers on goods, services and investments and public procurement. but so far mercosur has been unable to agree internally and to respond to us on how to move towards an exchange of market access offers. i would first want to discuss this with us at the highest level. that is why i will participate next week in a meeting with mercosur counterparts at the celac-eu summit in santiago de chile on 26 january 2013. we must bear in mind that the internal situation of mercosur is rather complex and this is not without consequences to the negotiations. first there is the question of who is in and who is out of mercosur. the current suspension of paraguay, the slow accession of venezuela and future enlargement to bolivia, might complicate or delay further work though not decisively in our view. if the necessary strong political will is present in mercosur, solutions can be found. secondly, there is an increasing tendency in parts of mercosur to adopt protectionist measures which may cast certain doubts on the likelihood and of political will which could be mustered to open markets. i will use the opportunity of the forthcoming ministerial meeting in santiago de chile to take stock of the situation and engage with mercosur partners in a way so that we all agree on what is needed in order to move negotiations forward and instruct our negotiators accordingly. in spite of the difficulties, the eu remains committed to negotiate a balanced, ambitious and comprehensive agreement with mercosur. such an agreement could generate very considerable gains for both regions. in times of crisis we need to ensure new sources of growth for eu citizens and businesses. rest assured that parliament will be informed of further developments. i have in preparation of the summit meeting in santiago discussed the matter with colleagues in the region and our feeling is that, yes, they have difficulties in coming to offers; they are probably not going to do it within a fortnight, but they are also anxious not to put an end to the negotiations because they see the political consequences of this. but i think they have to make up their mind. either they engage in free trade negotiations – and it will not be easy for us either, you know, to put forward offers – or they take the protectionist route. but they have to choose. you cannot have them both and the european union in the coming weeks, months, will have to choose what to do. are we going to continue pressing, pushing, waiting? or are we going to take action before the wto? it is obvious for a number of measures and regulations that have been made by a number of member states of mercosur – especially argentina, but not limited to argentina by the way – that sooner or later we have to choose our service as well. so we are close i believe to a decisive moment but i think on the other hand that we should try to get to a reasonable understanding and to make progress in this summit meeting next week. of course, if you ask me to do so i will report on that meeting as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate comes at a very opportune time in the calendar, as the commissioner said: on the eve of the european union-celac summit in santiago, chile, next week. if we look at the situation, we see that mexico and chile have an association agreement which has produced excellent results. in december this parliament ratified the multi-party agreement and the association agreement with central america. even with cuba, things are moving. and it was precisely on the eve of the madrid summit that i had the opportunity, as rapporteur for this parliament's association agreement, to visit the president of the commission and to visit commissioner de gucht to unblock these negotiations. the commissioner has expressed the interest he has in the european union achieving a balanced, ambitious agreement which takes account of all the sensitivities involved in this matter. commissioner, you have referred to the political situation in mercosur and it is true that, after the resumption of negotiations and for reasons attributable to mercosur, it has not been possible to put a concrete offer on the table that would improve the 2004 negotiating offer. we know and are aware of the paraguayan crisis, the suspension of paraguay and the incorporation of venezuela. but we also know, commissioner, that the differences in sensitive products account for less than 10% of trade. mr commissioner, do you think there is political will on the part of the mercosur countries to conclude this agreement? and if we came to the conclusion - as you have pointed out - that there is no political will, what would be the alternatives? do you think, commissioner, that it would be desirable to conclude the agreement with those countries which have already expressed their willingness to put a concrete negotiating offer on the table? i speak of brazil, i speak of uruguay and i speak of paraguay. because, commissioner, mr president, where there is a will, there is always a way.
mr president, i will make a fourth point, in the sense that i strongly support the conclusion of this historic agreement, which will be a milestone for the european union and a milestone for latin america, through mercosur. it is not easy to bring 800 million people together on something as complex and as costly as trade, but two women did it in 2010: the spanish vice president, maría teresa fernández de la vega, travelled to buenos aires, agreed with president cristina fernández and negotiations resumed. i hope that now in chile the women who have a great deal of practical sense, namely mrs merkel, dilma vana rousseff, the high representative and the president of argentina, will look for a formula to unblock this negotiation and bring it to a happy conclusion, because the obstacle is not technical, the obstacle is not procedural, it is not, in my opinion, from some countries or others, it is a lack of political will at the highest level. the commission's negotiators themselves tell us this. i am the president of the european parliament's delegation to mercosur and we are told that we need to unblock the top, the politicians, the heads of state and government. and i hope, commissioner, and i am sure you hope, that this issue will be unblocked in chile.
mr president, in fact, it will be three years since the negotiations were resumed in may. i am firmly in favour of concluding them successfully. i would like to add to the data provided, mr president, the following: mercosur is the world's largest producer of food and it has the world's largest energy reserves. that gives you an idea of the importance of this negotiation for the parties concerned. in the autumn we were in brazil and we could observe a positive language there, but at the same time an opaque language. the commissioner has told us what has been done so far: that we have made progress in the area of regulation. but that, in purity, in spanish, is to make the partridge dizzy. it is purely a question of whether we are making progress in the industrial and agricultural sectors, while preserving our interests, and whether we are also making progress in the services sector. in fact, commissioner, what i am asking you to do, and this is the third time that we have spoken this morning and in this house about political will, is to assess in chile the political will of the mercosur members to sign the agreement. and then, after returning from chile, where we will also be present and cooperate with your intentions, come to this house so that we can meet and, knowing, decide. decide whether we go with the alternative of negotiation or whether we go with the alternative of looking at the possibility of concluding bilateral agreements.
mr president, commissioner, europe has a natural trading ally in the americas, because of the cultural, linguistic and other links we all know, which makes it imperative that we continue to draw closer and strengthen our relations. in particular, mercosur is the fourth largest economic bloc in the world. it represents 80% of the region's gdp and has a population of over 240 million. hence the importance of making progress in the negotiations which were relaunched in 2010, and now it is time to move to a genuine exchange of proposals to achieve the objective set: an association agreement which serves as a stable framework for strengthening our relations and which has a mutually beneficial impact. throughout the process, the european parliament is showing its high level of involvement and must work in a coordinated way to achieve the best possible result. an example of the possibilities of this agreement is in investments. the eu's foreign direct investment in mercosur is more than the eu's investment in china, india and russia. we can make further progress by establishing a framework for protecting and promoting them. in an environment of increasing economic interdependence and global challenges that transcend national borders, political determination and a willingness to compromise are indispensable, as has been said in this house, to face the difficulties we may encounter in our negotiations and to reach an agreement that is beneficial to all.
mr president, commissioner, the european union and mercosur must promote and develop their bilateral relations. and of course both are interested in improving trade, no doubt. but what i think we should bear in mind very carefully is the impact of a greater opening of the community market to imports of agricultural products from these countries, especially in the beef, chicken and citrus sectors. the 2011 impact study, commissioned by the commission's directorate-general for agriculture, did not hide the impact that acceptance of the requests made by the mercosur countries in the agricultural chapter could have. according to that study, agricultural income in the union would suffer a fall that would vary from one member state to another, but in total, it was estimated that thirty-three thousand jobs would be lost across europe. it should also be borne in mind that the forecasts of the agricultural organizations are much more alarmist and pessimistic than those made by the european commission. i do not think that we are living in a time when we can increase imports from third countries in sectors such as beef, citrus and chicken without demanding clear reciprocal measures. the consequences of an agreement with mercosur would be in addition to those arising from the reform of the common agricultural policy which we are now negotiating.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because the european union must recognise the crime of war and not leave the country to the multinationals. with this agreement the union is seeking to secure the benefits that oil activity can bring and is seeking to continue as if a war had not been launched on its population. in this resolution the union loses the opportunity to help the people and to build relations with the country which does not go through the exploitation of its resources, which was the ultimate cause of the war. the country's economy has been dismantled by this war, the infrastructure has been disintegrated, industries destroyed, etc. only by recognising the serious damage caused can new relations be established with the country. in a context of international isolation it will be difficult for the situation to improve and that is why, although i consider an agreement between the two countries to be beneficial, i have not voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − abstention. i am rather critical with the reading of the consequences of the conclusion of the negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the republic of iraq, which establishes contractual relations between the two parties for the first time. the establishment by the partnership and cooperation agreement of a cooperation council, a cooperation committee and a parliamentary cooperation committee and could, maybe, provide fresh impetus for the union’s political involvement in iraq at the highest level, in the form of regular political talks and the development of economic relations with the iraqi authorities at the most senior level. however, there are still many uncertainties.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a further step in the imperialist intervention in iraq. this report does not propose any change in european policy and it assumes the free entry of european multinationals to plunder natural resources and what little might have been left standing after the war. the report deals with the trade agreement initially established between the two parties in 2006 to continue exporting the energy resources available to the country. in the context of the serious blow that the war has inflicted on the iraqi people, we cannot accept a normal development of the export of their natural resources as if nothing had happened. for these reasons, i consider the report to be a real boost to the eu's imperialist strategy and have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − against. on 23 march 2006, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a trade and cooperation agreement with iraq. at the seventh round of eu-iraq negotiations, the two parties agreed to enhance the status of the draft agreement to a ‘partnership and cooperation agreement’ through the creation of a cooperation council meeting regularly at ministerial level. this eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement marks the first ever contractual relation between the eu and iraq. concluded for a period of 10 years (renewable), its aim is to build a solid basis for strengthening ties between iraq and the eu. i do not really believe in this direct link liberalisation/democracy.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is a clear interference with the sovereignty of the state of zimbabwe, which is treated differently from the union's allies. this strategy of 'double standards' in the union's foreign policy leads to absurd situations where relations with countries such as colombia, morocco or israel are encouraged, while countries such as zimbabwe are required to respect human rights. we cannot leave the union's foreign policy to the interests of business groups. i believe that a firm and clear position must be maintained with regard to all the eu's partner countries. the report, while it contains positive points on human rights, makes accusations about criminal activities for which the eu has no competence, and this is a real act of interference. in the face of a resolution of this kind, i could only vote against it.
in writing. − against. we greens tabled an alternative resolution that was rejected. we wanted to call on the eu to implement policy coherence for development in its all policy areas, including coherence between trade policy and respect for human rights, as well as to disapprove the eu’s policy of signing a trade liberalisation agreement with zimbabwe and madagascar despite the fact that these countries are under eu sanctions for human rights violation. also, it is regrettable that, despite the introduction of policy coherence for development as a key concept in 2005 and in a number of eu council conclusions, no concrete measures have so far been taken to make the link between development, respect for human rights and trade. thus, we oppose the eu’s aggressive and continuous push for, and rigid approach in relation to, the conclusion of economic partnership agreements in spite of the justified concerns of many acp countries and civil society organisations.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new exercise in neo-colonialism between the european union and african countries. the report proposes an agreement which has been characterised by the inflexibility of the european union during its negotiations, which is the reason for their long duration. these asymmetrical trade agreements are tools of neo-colonial domination that will allow the eu to import the agricultural goods and raw materials that these countries export and dismantle their industrialization possibilities by importing european products. on the basis of such agreements between such disparate economies, we can only build processes of unequal development that deepen the problems that prevent the economic improvement of populations such as africa. all these factors, which will determine the future development of the region, are the reasons why i voted against this report.
in writing. − against. in line with the greens’ long-standing position of opposing the logic of the epa.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i believe that state aid should be used to maximise the welfare of society without regard to market needs. this resolution contains several points which i clearly share, such as improving its efficiency, steering it towards the ecological transformation of the european economy, but ultimately argues that decision-making on public resources should be based on market criteria such as competition. to give primary importance to competition means to subordinate political decisions and the corresponding allocation of state funds to private economic actors and their profit-seeking dynamics and to subordinate the welfare of society to the prevailing capitalist laws. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the text regrets that the legal base for the new proposals, article 109 tfeu, provides only for consultation of parliament, not codecision in line with other areas of market integration and economic regulation further to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty; and believes that this democratic deficit cannot be tolerated in respect of proposals that concern the means of oversight by the commission of decisions and acts by national and local elected authorities, notably as regards services of general economic interest related to fundamental rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it refers to the important issue of the working conditions under which products imported into the eu are produced. the recent deaths in various industrial accidents in textile factories in pakistan and especially bangladesh are tragic examples of the effects of the relocation of multinational companies. these countries must implement measures to ensure the safety of workers and bring to justice those responsible for possible criminal negligence that has led to these fatal accidents. it also seeks to promote the trade union movement in these factories as the best way of guaranteeing safety and health conditions at work, as well as complying with the requirements and supervision of the ilo. this resolution is the result of negotiations on the basis of various resolutions, including the one tabled by my group, and therefore includes the aspects which i consider to be of interest. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. together with expressing concern at the loss of lives and the many casualties in the factory fires in bangladesh and pakistan in recent months and offers its condolences to the families of the victims, it is important to call on all european retailers whose orders were being processed at the time of the fires to support the local authorities and involve social partners in setting up an adequate and transparent compensation scheme for the victims and their families as well as contributing to such a system.
mr leinen, i want to tell you that in the spanish national parliament, of which i was a member for 22 years, it was forbidden by the rules of procedure to read to members, and it is not the only parliament where that is the case. it is the parliamentary tradition of many countries, but the truth is that it is rarely followed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it represents a step forward in the process of denuclearisation in the middle east. the arms race is a process that has no limits due to the continuous development of technology; for this reason, if countries compete in this field, no one wins and only the risks for humanity increase. the presence of such weapons in the region puts global security at risk and declaring the zone free of such weapons is essential to trying to build peace. the active support which the european union must give to this process implies demanding that countries which have such weapons, such as israel, be destroyed in order to lay the foundations for a peace that will bind all the countries of the middle east equally. i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it essential to move towards a safer world.
in writing. − in favour. i deeply deplore the postponement of the 2012 conference on the establishment of a middle east zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction, and also urge the un secretary-general, the un facilitator, the sponsors of the 1995 resolution on the middle east, the eu high representative and the eu member states to make sure that the 2012 conference takes place at the latest in early 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it represents a step forward in the labelling requirements for imported products, allowing for better traceability of goods entering the eu. requiring the indication of the country of origin gives the consumer the possibility to make well-informed choices when consuming products imported into the eu. this improvement in information may allow consideration of the social, political and environmental conditions in which a good has been produced. it can help to encourage the consumption of european products by making it more difficult for european companies wishing to produce in other countries for cost reasons to relocate. the report makes available to european consumers information on the origin of goods, thus avoiding possible confusion in certain products. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. the role of the european parliament is clearly being flouted by the commission and the council. more seriously, at a time when european citizens are being affected by globalisation and want to obtain benchmarks and information on the products they buy, the commission seems clearly to be taking the side of certain multinationals who want to make the places and conditions of manufacture opaque. the european commissioner for trade has even described consumer information as a barrier to trade. the european parliament has called for the use of the 'made in' mark to be a tool for transparency, information and democracy, which is necessary for european consumers and which the european parliament is defending. it is a useful lever for strengthening health security and the protection of social rights and the environment. it also allows the development of european products, especially those produced by small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission and the council must understand that the way out of the crisis also requires strengthening rights and combating social, environmental and health dumping. they must show that europe is protecting. to give in to the pressure of certain multinational companies is to accept the leap forward which has led us into the crisis which is affecting us so dramatically.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because the parliamentary group of the european united left/nordic green left had proposed an alternative resolution. the resolution adopted represents a trade agreement which would bring to the european market a large number of goods, mostly from the agricultural sector, produced under conditions of environmental and social dumping. the proposed trade agreement would increase the import of raw materials and thus increase the associated environmental conflicts. i believe that mercosur is a fundamental political bloc with which a trade association is not enough and political support is necessary. it is a bloc that has demonstrated its defense of democracy by being expelled from paraguay after its coup d'état. the alternative resolution tabled by my group included these aspects and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − against. we greens did not sign the joint resolution (ppe, s&d, alde and ecr) and tabled an alternative one, which was not even put to the vote. basically, we remain unconvinced that both partners should speed up the negotiations towards a new association agreement, and wanted to invite the commission to assess the existing negotiating directives with a view to proposing changes which take account of the changing nature and composition of the mercosur block. as we tried to amend the common one with some amendments, that were all rejected, we voted against the text.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote.
mr president, the problem we are dealing with here is not only to do with the unacceptable rapes that have occurred recently in india, though i would point out that two million women and girls die every year in india as a result of sexual violence. the lack of an adequate response from institutions and the impunity that some seem to promote as a rule need to be condemned, but beyond that the real problem is the patriarchal system in india and elsewhere. the european union should be much stronger in its calls for an end to discrimination against women within and outside the borders of the european union. in their dialogues with the indian authorities and others, all representations must bring up the cases of sexual assault and the need for a uniform protocol for treatment and examination of sexual assault survivors. there is no room for false cultural relativism or excuses: a crime is a crime, and culture should never be misused to cover it. if we want to be credible in that matter, let us speak loudly and clearly.
the rapporteur, mrs schleicher, has made a number of points which i would like to stress. when the people's group asked me to draw up this report, i knew that i had a major challenge: to amend a regulation, posei, which is a vital instrument for the outermost regions of the union and for the citizens who live in those regions, at a time of particular economic difficulties. it was necessary to draw up a report which, while maintaining all the positive aspects of the previous regulation, would tackle the task of adapting it to the present circumstances; it was necessary to seek a balance between all the sectors to which it was addressed, while promoting local production, maintaining the unique landscape of our islands, promoting transparency, seeking the effectiveness of the programmes, contributing to the maintenance of employment by increasing the possibilities for growth, and all this in a complicated situation. we are all suffering from the terrible economic crisis in the european union. but it is precisely the outermost regions that are among the most affected. the canary islands, for example, have only one in two young people in work, and the overall unemployment rate is already over one third of the working population. the crisis is affecting the most remote and isolated areas of the continent, and the regulation, which has been negotiated with the council of ministers of the european union and the commission, provides a small respite by maintaining and strengthening as far as possible european support measures for these regions. i am pleased that in the tripartite negotiations we have been able to agree on the achievement of our main priorities, which allows us to send a message of hope. it also implies a tangible recognition of the economic value of a sector which is emblematic for many of these areas, such as the banana sector, which is the motor of rural development in many territories where the possibilities for diversification are very limited. the aid granted to this sector comes at a time when producers need more than ever guarantees to maintain an adequate level of competitiveness vis-à-vis imports from third countries. the amended regulation also takes account of the need for diversification of production, including this objective as one of the essential objectives which member states must henceforth respect when drawing up their programmes. the european parliament has also managed to include an unprecedented clause requiring the european commission to carry out impact studies on these regions when negotiating trade agreements with third countries or following agrarian reforms. i would also like to stress that the agreement reached enshrines the spirit of solidarity that exists between the outermost regions by promoting trade between them. a significant part of the posei programmes is intended to ensure the supply of these areas, which are characterized by a strong dependence on external supply. the agreement contains some changes to the special supply arrangements, while introducing the principle that these arrangements must not cause any damage to local production. it also reinforces the principle that products from third countries must comply with veterinary and plant health safety standards equivalent to those required of european producers. as regards the financing sheet, it is true that we wanted it to be increased, although we were very aware of the difficulties involved. we were able to lower our legitimate and justified claims to reach an agreement acceptable to all: the maintenance of the financial statement without linking it to other programmes. finally, i would point out that the agreement reached provides for the commission to study the functioning of posei in 2013 and to present a report on it, which could be followed, if necessary, by legislative proposals. it is a report which should examine the effectiveness of this aid scheme and the decisions taken under the common agricultural policy. flexibility, agility, transparency and less red tape are the key elements of this reform.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is true that this reform covers many aspects and also offers many possibilities. i know that, as in all negotiations, there are issues we were hoping for and which, unfortunately, cannot be covered. one of them has been expressed very well here by mr patrão neves: he refers to his unfulfilled aspirations for the dairy sector. i'm really sorry about that. but i can say that, on the whole, it is a good document which should give stability to a sector which also needs it. but this regulation must also be a clear warning that we must all do things right. the european institutions have been able to agree, convinced that posei is an absolutely essential instrument. our agricultural sector needs it, our way of life, our landscapes and our people, too. it is therefore necessary to show that, with daily work, transparency and the commitment of all, the work we have done has been worthwhile. the future of posei obviously depends on the institutions. and we'll be here to defend it. but it also depends fundamentally on all those who are beneficiaries of this programme making the best use of it, proving day by day that we have not been wrong. i would like to thank everyone for their great help and the commission and the council for their efforts to reach this agreement. we have had difficult negotiating moments, but i can say publicly that i have always found myself the most willing to reach agreements even on the most difficult issues. the rapporteur, mr de sarnez, mr la via and mr omarjee, thank you very much for your contribution. and also to the fairies who have been able to give in on the particular to win on the general. and to all those people, who are always anonymous, from the three institutions - and i know you will not like it - in chiara imperio of the commission, who have been able to lay the foundations of the document we are going to adopt tomorrow, and for which i ask all members to support, with such dedication and affection. it has not been an easy task, but i think it has been worth the effort.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, mrs reding, i know your commitment and your desire to reduce all problems of violence. the women's committee, with our chairman gustafsson, is extremely determined, all political groups combined. there is unanimity on the subject, but we can see that it is extremely complex, because we must eradicate the problem at national level, because we must show the way at european level, and because we must mobilize at international level. all these levels require that we be absolutely unwavering in our determination. we can see that we are all determined here in parliament, but the problem arises as soon as we go outside. we need to start this movement in such a way that everyone knows how to recognize the victims, that they can speak, that they can be protected. then, we must educate young people to recognize that they are either victims or even victimizers. i think we must be extremely careful - marina yannakoudakis said it earlier - to ensure that education shows young people the boundaries that must not be crossed, whether it is girls, whose speech must be freed, but also boys, who must understand and know that violence is a real crime. i would also like to say that we have a lot to do within large companies so that violence against women can be identified - whether it is silent or physical - and we can mobilise the heads of companies and the staff of these companies, so that we can all be extremely vigilant in the face of this problem, which can no longer last.
commissioner, mr gustafsson, you are an example of initiatives against gender-based violence. i fully agree that violence against women and girls is perhaps the most shameful violation of human rights and that we must act in europe and in the world. a worldwide phenomenon, from india to africa, from europe to guatemala, as mr tarabella said. a widespread phenomenon throughout the world and in all class societies. a sad and unacceptable phenomenon. women we have the right to a life without violence. there must be public resources for victims of abuse and, above all, there must be public policies to raise awareness and raise awareness in society and that the crisis is not an excuse to reduce funds for aid to victims of abuse and stop fighting for equality and against inequality. so, commissioner, i welcome the proposal for a new directive against gender-based violence.
mr president, i am convinced that when we talk about 'eliminating gender-based violence', we are all in the same boat. there are no political or ideological differences in the face of this european and world tragedy which, despite our laws, seems to have no brakes. i can only say that the two directives put forward by the commissioner, for which i was rapporteur, namely the directive on the european victim protection order and the directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, have given a key role to victims of gender-based violence, offering all the practical support so that these women dare to report crimes and do not keep silent for fear of being victims again. but we must have the means to do so, so that all this legislative effort does not remain on wet paper. we must provide resources for programmes that serve at european and global level, so that women can rely on those who have a duty to protect them. it is also important to say that perhaps it is time to increase the penalties and, above all, that these penalties are met.
mr president, commissioner, we will never tire of saying that gender-based violence must be stopped. because we know that gender-based violence is one of the most serious cases of human rights violation: one in four women suffers gender-based violence. the crisis has brought unemployment, but also cuts in essential areas such as social policies, support for women's housing, support for women's associations. the euro-order is certainly an important step in the right direction, but it is not enough: we must prevent it. we must prevent at the earliest stages, educating from equality, dismantling stereotypes, ending sexist education, promoting critical training that rejects any kind of discrimination. in these times of uncertainty, austerity and change, it is necessary to put gender-based violence at the centre of the european agenda. it is essential to reiterate our commitment to articulate a joint strategy at european level.
madam president, i think that mrs parvanova and the spokesmen have done an important job, both in terms of what they propose to take out of the initial document and what they add. i think it is right that the imposition of unrealistic deadlines and the proposal for a self-sanctioning committee to the states to denounce themselves, to sanction themselves and to compensate the pharmaceutical companies should be abolished. because it was an issue that only benefited the industry and did not benefit either the patients or the states. on the other hand, introducing the definition of vulnerable groups, including children, the retired, the unemployed and the chronically ill, and having them taken into account when setting prices and introducing or withdrawing medicines from social security systems, is very important, especially at a time of savage austerity in europe and at a time of absolutely inhumane cuts in the southern european countries which are affecting the most vulnerable in health. it is now more necessary than ever to take these sectors into account when setting prices, especially for generics, and when deciding which medicines are to be introduced and which not. it would be much better if we could have a similar health system for all and one day the health of europeans would be above spurious financial interests and even subsidiarity. perhaps that day we will all be more equal and perhaps that day even the governments of the states of europe will be a little more humane. health is not everything, it doesn't have to be at the dawn of the financial crisis.
madam president, commissioner, europe must reverse the current role of european industry. the aim must be sustainable growth, job creation and addressing the problems of our society. however, today we were faced with the difficulties. there are difficulties, and there are many, because we are in the period of the lowest investment in industrial policy in the last ten years. factory closures, partial or total, and a bloodbath of job losses, over three million industrial job losses, are raised. recent cases such as those just mentioned, in genk, arcelor mittal in liège, or the spanish steel company in asturias, are facing very serious problems, but we are still leaders and must continue to be so in automotive policy, with specific plans, as you said, in aeronautics, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, since a lot of investment is needed in r & d & i. priority measures must be set; urgent measures for recovery and sustainability, from the regions to the states and to europe, and from europe to the states and to the regions; more governance and more coordination, not national solutions that only weaken us, fragment us. we therefore ask you for rules of operation for the single market, taking into account the entire value chain, raw materials and after-sales services, cross-cutting measures, specifying the energy model and, above all, very specific measures: as regards access to credit, what will happen to horizon 2020? and above all, a plea: convince the council, the ministers for science and the ministers for industry of the various states that industry can be the solution to the crisis.
madam president, the surinamese company puertas normas has its registered office in spain, but the headquarters of the group of which it is part are in the netherlands and denmark. this trade pattern and the commercial situation in the sector have resulted in four employment regulatory files and a creditor competition that puts its future at risk. in order to find a solution to this problem, the city council of san leonardo de yagüe and the representatives of the workers' committees arrived at the european parliament on 30 january, and deputies from five spanish political groups with a very large majority in the chamber formalised our solidarity support for their initiatives and we also want the other european institutions to consider them. i therefore ask the commission in particular to ensure that the rules of the internal market are properly applied and, above all, that workers are given social protection. and, moreover, that they take all the necessary initiatives to pass a new body of legislation to protect against business relocation and its abusive practices. we will continue.
madam president, i would like to express my solidarity with the workers of the puertas normas factory in san leonardo de yagüe, in the spanish province of soria. they're the possible victims of yet another relocation. i call on the european commission to help ensure that this company is not lost, because of its importance in the region, and above all to demand that the multinational jeld wen not close this factory, because it has nothing to do with work, job creation, profitability and viability. there is a possibility of buying this company - which is part of this multinational consortium - and that purchase has to be made with the pressure of everyone, with the pressure of this parliament, with the pressure of the workers, of the local and regional authorities in spain, but also, of course, i appeal to the european commission to agree with the workers on this point, so that employment is not lost.
madam president, when we adopted the rapkai report in december 2010, we extended the regulation on public aid for coal until 2018. those of us who are fighting for this regulation, which should be the starting point and not the end point for the mining sector, are indignant and feel betrayed by the fact that the spanish government, which had eight years to revive the sector, has only needed two to bring it down. the spanish government, a black flag in its current opacity with social agents, does not want to know anything about black coal, paints in black the panorama of the energy mix, increasingly dependent, and paints in black the future of the mining basins. from the european parliament, where we have received the miners, i would like to ask the spanish government to comply with eu regulations and to present a coal viability plan that sheds light on the threats of redundancies and closures of mines, that sheds light on technological investments, on greener coal and, incidentally, that this light sheds light on its own behaviour, which is today tarnished not by black coal, which it does not defend, but by the suspicions of black accounting that reveal it.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by ulrike rodust, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common fisheries policy (com ((2011) 0425 c7-0198/2011- 2011/0195 ((cod)) (a7-0008/2013).
on behalf of the ppe group the fact that the vote in committee was so close shows that the compromise proposed by the rapporteur was not entirely satisfactory. the path chosen for regionalisation opens the way to discrimination against vessels on grounds of nationality. the commission's proposal to change our bad management system through fishing rights has also not been implemented. and yet, perhaps to compensate, everything is being done to ban discarding immediately, which is not something to be objected to, except because it is very easy to say, but very difficult to do, without changing the management system which has created the problem. it's like not wanting to change the patient's treatment and just forbidding him from getting sick. the change is so drastic that it has become the main concern of the eu fisheries sector, regardless of the country. that is why our group has tabled an amendment which - and i want to make this very clear this time - is in no way intended to avoid the obligation to land all catches, an obligation which we have maintained since the first paragraph. what we're trying to do is rationalize the way we do it. it has the support of the whole fisheries sector, from the mediterranean to the baltic. so i think it's worth the effort. we're just looking for a formula to help them transition to a very new and very radical obligation with the goal of being able to meet it. even norway, which is often cited as an example of a ban on discards, took decades to implement and only succeeded for a few species. i believe that our fishermen, in a field that is much more complex than the norwegian one, deserve at least a similar opportunity. i therefore count on you, ladies and gentlemen, to take your decisions with caution, and as the president-in-office of the council has said, we need more pragmatism. and i am convinced that the final compromise with the council will be much closer to the european people's party amendment than to the rapporteur's report.
mr president, we are at a historic moment and there is no room left. if we want to save fish, seas and oceans and hence fisheries as a whole, we must change our course radically. it is up to us to put an end to the suicidal policy of empty seas and oceans without reason or sense, and to begin to work seriously and responsibly in favour of a necessary activity which, precisely for this reason, must be sustainable. but for that we must be clear, sharp. we must stop supporting those who have brought us to this situation; those who have overexploited the seas out of blindness or greed; those who fish more, much more, than the seas can afford; those who fish badly or illegally and illicitly. and instead we should support those vessels that fish with very low impact, that fish selectively, that are less harmful to the environment, that are more responsible, and that are more socially and environmentally sensitive. it 's in our hands to change course and start over ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the first fisheries reforms, and this is the third, have failed, firstly because of the lack of commitment on the part of governments to apply scientific criteria and effective measures to control and prevent over-exploitation. it is a proposal which does not seek to be a panacea but does seek to change the situation. for more than a year, we have been working with the whole sector, with the large operators, with the small operators, with the environmental organisations, with the institutions, with the communities, with the council. the lack of consensus cannot be attributed to mrs rodust or the socialist group, sometimes consensus means having a positive predisposition to change things and it is not precisely by opposing this reform that they are defending themselves. it is not about fish defenders or defenders of businesses, but about ensuring that everyone can continue to fish in the future in a sustainable way and guaranteeing food security for all citizens. this is not a business, the sea does not belong to those who have been over-exploiting it. as a spaniard, i have worked to defend the interests of spain which are compatible with the european union, the principle of prevention, not fishing more than the sea can give us, minimising discards, helping young people, women and small-scale coastal fishing, and respecting labour standards and human rights and protocols. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, minister, we have reached the key point in the reform process of the common fisheries policy. and it is time to ask ourselves whether this is the reform we were hoping for and, above all, whether it is the reform of all and for all. when we look at the reform work, we find ourselves faced with a proposal which was originally intended to be somewhat ambitious and balanced. it called for fish stocks to be brought up to sustainable exploitation levels, proposed extending multinational fishing plans to all fish stocks in the european union, and banned the odious practice of discards. all these obligations were facilitated by the flexibility afforded by regionalisation. on the other hand, and in line with the europe 2020 strategy, business growth was encouraged by establishing a system of transferable fishing concessions, for a long period of time, through which the industry could be able to plan its economic activity in the medium and long term, facilitating investments, increasing its competitiveness and making it independent of subsidies, also increasing its responsibility and reducing discards. however, today it seems clear that much of this ambition has been lost along the way. the reform we have negotiated so far is intended to be particularly focused on the environmental aspect. and i think, despite some issues, it's a challenge that we all accept. i will not go into the details of the rules, we all want to ban it, but we also want to make it feasible. i sincerely believe that the success of this reform will be determined by the regionalisation model we finally design. and finally, i conclude by answering the questions i asked at the beginning: this is not the reform that was sought, and today it is not the reform of all, nor for all. i hope that during the tripartite dialogues we will be able to make progress towards this. as chairman of the committee on fisheries, i will not give up on the cfp for all.
mr president, on the first occasion that the european parliament is debating a fisheries reform, and after more than 2 500 amendments, i want to congratulate the rapporteur, ulrike rodust, for making commitments and for making it possible that in this house the really fundamental subject of the debate is how we are going to implement the transition in the discard policy, which is part of, but not the whole of, the fisheries reform. i would have liked a reform that would establish a european fisheries policy, abolishing the principle of relative stability and preventing the high seas fleet from being excluded from the rules of the internal market. but i do recognise that the proposed reform is a responsible, sustainable and competitive reform; that the rapporteur in her report has strengthened the socioeconomic dimension in the area of sustainability; that the fishing fleet and small-scale aquaculture are also being strengthened; that the problems of maximum sustainable yield are being tackled even better, and that good progress is being made in the area of discards. all this can still be improved. i think we should take advantage of the amendments to ensure that the establishment of reserve areas is not done unilaterally and protectionistally, but with guarantees from the european union, and to improve some aspects.
commissioner, mr minister, the representatives of the fishing nations want real change, a reform that we have been calling for for a long time and that parliament now finally has a say in. the reform of fisheries policy urgently needs to support small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing, which is the main source of employment in coastal areas, to differentiate between extensive and intensive aquaculture, between shellfish farming, mussel farming or large-scale aquaculture farms, a change which we thank the rapporteur, mrs rodust, to take into account the social dimension of fisheries, to make a decent living from fishing, from making nets, from selling fish and from other economic activities. management plans for the economic fisheries sector to participate and co-operate actively as a fisheries management instrument, ensuring the welfare of fisheries... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their interventions. the commission tabled its own proposal – the initial proposal – a year and a half ago. all these months we have been discussing it intently among ourselves, and we have all worked very hard – ms rodust, the shadow rapporteurs, the council, the commission, everybody – to go for a good deal. so we have pragmatism and realism here. i was very proud to support the general approach taken by the council last june, i am very proud to support the deal we have with the committee on fisheries, and i am very proud to be flexible and include a lot of good ideas that were put forward over those months. we also had a dialogue with the industry and with thousands of citizens all around europe, which is why we have now adopted a more flexible approach to discards. we are now adopting a step by step approach – the gradual approach you asked for. this is a more realistic approach, a fishery by fishery approach, an approach that first and foremost concerns having better and more selective gears and, on land, having everything that we need to take advantage of all the good food we have in our hands. through this dialogue i can also say we have greater regionalisation, as far as this can be achieved, in order to give the member states, the industry itself and also our citizens the possibility to decide upon their own issues. we also have social sustainability, because we will have positive measures. for the first time we are going to have special treatment for small-scale fisheries. with sustainability of the stocks by 2022 we can have 30% more jobs and 25% additional income for our fisheries. so we have done a lot. i would like to reiterate that the commission is very willing to discuss, through the trialogues with the council, and with parliament, any other good ideas that will be voted on tomorrow. i really think that this is an opportunity for us. for the first time, mr president, parliament is discussing and being decisive about a fisheries policy. this is a good sign for future generations.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am glad to see that the cameras are here and the chamber is filling up for the conclusion of the fisheries debate this morning. first of all, can i thank all of the speakers today for what has been an informative debate, and can i just say a number of things before concluding? i think everybody agrees, regardless of what group you come from or how you will vote tomorrow, that there does need to be a fundamental reform of the common fisheries policy. as we have been reminded by ms lövin and others today, we cannot continue to import nearly 70% of the fish that we consume in the european union when we have waters in the european union that have the capacity to produce a lot more fish. we cannot continue, as the commissioner has reminded us, to discard an average of 23% of the fish that we catch. in many fisheries it is far far higher than that. we cannot continue to allow over-fishing when we know that it is preventable through modernisation, improved selectivity and better management of our stocks. i do not think it is appropriate for the president of the council to give any advice or support to individual amendments tomorrow. that is a decision for you to make on behalf of parliament as you formulate your position tomorrow, i hope, which will then become a negotiating position during a trialogue codecision process that i am looking forward to. but i would encourage you to get the job done tomorrow if possible, so that we can move ahead with the process of decision-making and finding a satisfactory conclusion. you face the same challenges that we in the council face when we debate and decide and vote on final positions, namely to try and put in place a new common fisheries policy that not only makes sense to us as policymakers, but that can actually be implemented, and can fundamentally change the way in which our fishing industry operates, the way in which decisions are made, preferably at a regional basis in the future, and the way in which our stocks are managed – whether by regionalisation, whether by msy and whether we look at biomass or mortality in measuring that, whether it is how we collect and how we finance the collection of data, or whether it is on the difficult issue of discards where we need to bring an industry with us, as well as making ambitious and fundamental reform in this process. i wish you well tomorrow with the decisions you need to make. i look forward to working with you and the key players, in particular ms rodust, other rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and coordinators from groups, as we find, i hope, a compromise at the end of this process that is not driven by party-political interests or by ideology but by a practical determination to make a fundamental and sensible reform of the common fisheries policy that is in line with what most people outlined in their contributions today. thank you for the invitation to be here and i look forward to working with you and the commission to make something real happen before the end of the irish presidency.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. - i am in favour of the idea of establishing agricultural measures for the smaller aegean islands, taking into account their particularities and therefore the need for specific measures to overcome the social and economic difficulties they face. the report we voted for defines the financing of funds to support local agricultural production and the establishment of a specific supply system with the aim of supporting the supply of essential products and raw materials in these islands. unfortunately, however, an amendment from the right was adopted during the vote which weakened the original regulation considerably and which would in practice have resulted in a reduction in aid for local agricultural production. i therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. − in favour. the proposal for a regulation under examination constitutes a further adjustment to the arrangements introduced in 1993 and subsequently modified a number of times, most recently in 2006 (regulation 1405/2006). under the principle of subsidiarity, the commission adopted the proposal seeking to encourage participation in decision-making for adoption and implementation of the arrangements. the greek authorities are accordingly responsible for drawing up the support programme and submitting it to the commission for approval. they are also able to propose changes thereto in line with the current requirements of the islands.
mr president, this report, which has been improved so much by the work of its rapporteur, mr mato, is economically basic for the outermost regions of europe, including the canary islands. i share it in its entirety. i think it is very important to maintain aid and to have included in the text the obligation to carry out impact studies on the viability of these areas whenever we approve trade agreements with third countries, but i would also like to stress how important this report is from the point of view of european values. we are exercising active solidarity and applying the humanist values of our founding fathers to the problem of the outermost regions. we must return to them in other areas, because we are supporting european citizens who live off traditional crops and preserve european cultures associated with them, a natural environment which must be protected and of which they are part, population centres which are much more than production units, which are a historical and ethnographic heritage which we cannot allow to disappear. we're acknowledging all of that. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the new regulation on the programme of specific options for remoteness and insularity maintains the current programme schedule; about 80% of the funds are intended to promote local agricultural production, more specifically with some eur 268.42 million for banana producers in the canary islands. while this aid to the banana sector is not sufficient to sustain it, at a time when the liberalisation of trade between the eu and peru and colombia is harming community production with the entry of bananas into the community market produced without taking into account minimum social standards, these community funds are essential for the productive sector of the canary islands, which is in crisis and with very high unemployment levels, and which is also facing surcharges linked to supply because of its geographical position. but while i am in favour of specific budgetary allocations for the outermost regions, i would like to stress the inconsistency of the eu's trade policy with third countries, which has so damaged production in these regions.
in writing. − in favour. the programme of options specific to the remote and insular nature of the outermost regions (posei) was set up in 1991 to provide support for the french overseas departments and was extended the following year to cover the outermost portuguese and spanish regions. nine regions are currently covered by the programme, namely: guadeloupe, french guyana, martinique, réunion, saint-barthélemy and saint-martin in france; the azores and madeira in portugal; and the canary islands in spain. a tenth region, the french overseas department of mayotte, is currently scheduled for inclusion under the scheme. the ep is in favour of the competent authorities continuing to have a wide margin of flexibility in managing programmes since it is at regional level that measures can be adapted most effectively to meet real needs. this flexibility should be guaranteed, as should increased consultation with the sectors concerned.
mr president, on 22 february last year my group presented a campaign in favour of smes, the basis of which is set out in this report. that is why i support it, because in europe there are brilliant entrepreneurs and solvent small and mediumsized enterprises, which have serious problems to start or maintain their businesses because of financial problems. financing should be an instrument for development and growth, and today it is a rigged calculation rule. smes need much more flexible and creative support. i am glad that the role of the regions and of local banking is being recognised as a key tool for promoting development. my country has developed and diversified like this, with the help of kutxabank. today, our smes suffer from rigidity, bureaucracy and unreasonable deadlines for being able to collect. the elimination of these problems and the reduction of the differences in the price of money and access to credit in the member states is essential to the restoration of open and worthy competition within the european area.
in writing. - the de backer report contains elements which i welcome, as it considers that the eu should require banks to adapt their lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, which support the real economy and generate more jobs, particularly those affected by the systemic crisis. i believe that banks which have received state or european central bank support should be obliged to lend to smes. further measures are also needed to ensure that payments are received more quickly by small businesses and to clarify the rules for cooperation between smes and their creditors. however, i abstained in the final vote on the report because it is contradictory, because it conditions the activity of smes to free competition in the single market, which in real terms means their suffocation by the monopolies. i believe that public ownership and management of strategic sectors is essential, as is the simplification of procedures and the reduction of own capital for access to the structural funds by smes and the reduction of taxes on them, while increasing taxation on large enterprises.
in writing. − in favour. the rapporteur put forward a report of good quality and a cooperative process which resulted in a consensual text broadly supported. some green priorities were included such as the need to promote the diversity of smes including the social economy sector and promote new ways of funding. the report was adopted in econ by almost all of the votes cast.
in writing. − smes are the backbone of the european economy. there are 23 million smes within the european union and they represent the 99% of businesses. but these are difficult times for them. the economic situation has provoked a demand decrease leading to a reduction of industrial activity and creating problems in accessing finance. therefore, and taking into account their heterogeneity across europe, approaches to assisting them should be equally diverse. these approaches may be regulated by the small business act, which member states have committed themselves to implementing together with the commission. for this reason i support the resolution.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs. the report before us is the product of a large majority, obtained thanks to the generosity of all, which has allowed for a broad consensus. the labour and social situation has worsened during 2012 and the forecasts for 2013 are pessimistic. over the past 12 months, the number of unemployed has increased by two million and has reached the level of 25 million unemployed in the european union. indicators point to a trend towards higher levels and deeper forms of poverty and social exclusion, with an increase in employed poverty and social polarization in many member states. this situation calls for urgent measures to prevent further unemployment and social problems. we therefore believe that the following is necessary. first, a greater commitment to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. commitments made by member states and their implementation during 2012 have been insufficient. member states should make the necessary commitments to achieve this objective in their national reform programmes. another point is that we must achieve a budgetary balance that ensures the sustainability of public finances and our welfare system. however, it should also be stressed that this balance must be achieved through fiscal consolidation which does not jeopardise the potential for future growth and job creation and which takes account of the specific situation of each country. growth and job creation must also be the highest priority above other considerations. member states should adopt all necessary structural reforms, including: reform of labour taxation, which incentivises employment; promote and support self-employment and start-ups; improve the business environment; facilitate access to finance for smes; regularise informal and undeclared work in employment; reform labour markets to make them more flexible, dynamic and inclusive; and modernise wage-setting systems to match productivity developments; and exploit the high employment potential of sectors such as the green economy, health and social care and ict to create jobs. youth unemployment is also one of the major problems facing the european union and should be one of its highest priorities. we have reflected this in the report and have put forward proposals which should be adopted without further delay. in this respect, the rapid implementation of youth guarantee schemes, but with the corresponding funding, is key. another important point is the increase in poverty and social exclusion. the solution of these problems must be a central element of national and european union social policy programmes. member states should implement integrated active inclusion strategies and make new commitments to address this situation, in particular in relation to poverty among the employed population, poverty among people with limited or no links to the labour market and poverty among older people. i shall not say more because of the limited time available, and i simply hope that the council and the commission will take note of the report which we have adopted by a large majority.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i agree with the previous contributions that this is a critical time for europe and, in that context, i very much welcome this opportunity to discuss with parliament the european semester. this is a really vital tool for helping us to address the current economic challenges that we face, and it is a high priority for the irish presidency. recalling our presidency’s focus on stability, growth and jobs, we see an effective semester process, along with the banking union proposals, as an integral part of securing stability in our union. this particular semester is, of course, only the third such exercise. it began with the publication of the commission’s annual growth survey last november, and it will now be for the irish presidency, working together with the president of the european council, to ensure that it is completed successfully and contributes to delivering on the wider objectives under the europe 2020 strategy. our key objective as the presidency will be to ensure that all relevant council formations work in a coordinated and consistent manner towards a thorough preparation of both the march and the june european councils. the european semester is, of course, not an end in itself. it is a coordination tool to help us reach a number of policy goals, in particular the five headline targets set in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the fact that the european semester is primarily a means to an end is important. we cannot simply agree on policy guidance and then assume that our task is done. the semester has to be implemented in the member states and by the member states. this is the only way that it will produce concrete results, even if we have to accept that these will sometimes take time. the focus on implementation is all the more relevant as the whole semester exercise becomes regular and more familiar. there is wide agreement on the current priorities, which have not changed from last year. following the publication by the commission of its annual growth survey, the european council has confirmed the five priorities. these are differentiated growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, restoring lending to the economy, growth and competitiveness, unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, and modernising public administration. i know that this parliament has been following this exercise particularly closely, and that it has consistently insisted on the need, in such a wide-ranging exercise, for policy coherence. the irish presidency is adopting an inclusive approach which draws on the views of many different council configurations. environment, telecommunications and transport ministers have already addressed the semester in their december meetings. their debates point to the need for a better integration of environmental and climate policies into economic decision-making, a strengthening of both the implementation and enforcement of the digital agenda and a willingness to exploit fully the various synergies between telecommunications, transport and energy. the ecofin council had an initial discussion on the annual growth survey on 22 january and will now prepare its response. several ministers reiterated that there is no contradiction between growth and consolidation. work will continue, in particular, on restoring normal lending to the economy. the needs of smes, non-bank financing, and the impact on stability are among the issues which need to be addressed. work is continuing. the epsco, education, energy and competitiveness councils will debate the european semester in february. based on their input, as well as that already received from other council configurations, the presidency will put together a synthesis report which will constitute a basis for policy guidance which is due to be adopted by the spring european council. i cannot, of course, predict now what will be the key messages of this report, but i can say that we will focus on the key topics, and will not avoid – where necessary – more controversial issues, such as structural unemployment, poverty or europe’s leadership in the area of technological development. i want also at this point to underline the importance of the contribution of the single market to this year’s exercise. we are very pleased that the commission has presented – for the first time – a report on the state of the single market in the context of the 2013 annual growth survey. this is a particular priority for the irish presidency. we very much hope, working together with parliament, to make swift progress on the remaining files of the single market act i, as well as to take forward work on the single market act ii. the issue of single market governance is an issue of considerable importance to the council and indeed to this house. the presidency welcomes very much the contribution of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and particularly mr schwab’s report before us today, to the debate on how we might improve governance to facilitate the speedy and effective implementation of single market legislation, particularly in the services area. i congratulate this parliament on the close interest that it has taken in the european semester. i welcome the draft report from ms ferreira, on which it is due to vote tomorrow. many of parliament’s priorities correspond to those of the council and of this presidency. an obvious example is the youth guarantee scheme which, as you know, we hope to have agreed by employment ministers this month. another area is the role of education in providing the right skills for growth and jobs, on which we hope the council will soon adopt conclusions. the need to ensure greater democratic accountability in the union is something which is of major concern to the irish presidency. for my own part, i hosted an informal meeting of ministers and state secretaries for european affairs in dublin last month on the topic of strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability. i was very pleased to have the participation of members of this house, mr verhofstadt, mr brok and mr gualtieri in those discussions. i very much welcome your initiative last week to bring together national parliamentarians and members of this house to discuss the european semester. it is clear from the wide-ranging nature of this initiative that both have a direct stake in this exercise. many of those participating last week stressed the need for national parliamentarians and meps to work together. i fully endorse this. both have a role. we can only deliver on a successful european semester if both are involved. both need to cooperate, and i can assure you that the irish presidency will continue to encourage close cooperation in this area. we still have quite some way to go in this year’s european semester exercise. for this reason, i see this debate as an opportunity for me to hear more of your views and to see how these might be reflected in the further work of the presidency over the weeks ahead. i look forward to the rest of the debate and thank you very much for your contributions in advance.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the other committees, as well as all the rapporteurs, ms ferreira, ms lope fontagné, mr schwab, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their very intensive work on the report on the european semester and the annual growth survey. i understand that preparation of this report has not been easy, and the discussions have at times been rather heated. but this only reflects the weight of the issues at stake and the importance of the political choices to be made. your input, honourable members, is a very strong demonstration of the fact that the european parliament plays an essential role in the debate on european economic policy. let me also say that i very much appreciate our economic policy dialogues. that is why i was very pleased to participate in the joint meeting of the econ and employment and social affairs committees in november to present and discuss the annual growth survey. only last week i was able to take part in the opening session of the parliamentary week on the european semester where we had a very good and fruitful political discussion with representatives both of national parliaments and of the european parliament. our team, lászló andor, mr barnier and myself, will now present the commission’s view on this year’s economic policy priorities along the lines of our respective responsibilities. i shall start by saying that the annual growth survey puts a very strong emphasis on growth and competitiveness. we must be concerned about the industrial base of europe. in one decade, between 2000 and 2011, no fewer than 2.5 million manufacturing jobs were lost in the four largest member states: germany, france, italy and spain. when you consider the high debt levels, the rapid population ageing and the fact that more than half of social spending over the whole world today takes place in europe, you get a picture of the burden that the european productive economy has to carry in order to sustain our social model, our cherished way of living. we need to reverse this downward trend. we can reverse it provided that we continue along the path of reform; not reform for its own sake, but reform for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation. what should be done to drive job creation and productivity? that is the key priority of the annual growth survey. we need to support research and innovation, as ms ferreira rightly states in paragraph18 of her report. i truly hope that the talks on the multiannual financial framework will be positive and not damage the eu’s performance in this important area of innovation and research, which is our future. we need to support education and training and continue to reform our labour markets to remove obstacles to job creation. we need to support entrepreneurship and investment and complete the single market. we need to finish the job of financial repair to boost the flow of credit to smes and households. we need to support public investment, as we have done with the eib capital increase, and we need to design smart regulation which achieves societal and environmental objectives without hampering job creation and competitiveness. all of these policies on growth will be reflected in the country-specific recommendations of this year’s european semester, and i trust that the member states will continue this work in their national reform programmes. furthermore, we need to pursue consistent fiscal consolidation. public debt in the european union has risen from around 60% of gdp before the crisis to around 90% next year. it is at that level of 90% that public debt becomes a drag on growth. thus there is really no alternative to pursuing smart and consistent fiscal consolidation. public finances in the european union are improving, and confidence is therefore growing. we can see the impact of the reinforced economic governance, thanks in no small part to the six-pack. that is why it is essential to stay on the path of reform. making real progress on our policy agenda by making effective use of the european semester will be a crucial test of europe’s credibility. in this context let me make a final point which is very much of common interest. you are well aware that the adoption of the two-pack is a necessary foundation for rebuilding the emu towards a genuine stability union of both responsibility and solidarity. the commission is currently working in order to facilitate a constructive compromise on the two-pack and i am looking forward to a positive vote on this basis in the march session to further increase confidence in europe’s decision-making capacity. so we need to pass this test and together get europe back on track for sustainable growth and job creation. to this end, i very much look forward to having a constructive and productive debate with you here today.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome the involvement of the parliament in the debate on the 2013 european semester. it is crucial to foster the democratic legitimacy of the process. in particular, i congratulate ms veronica lope fontagné and the committee on employment and social affairs for having reached a consensus on a well-balanced report on the employment and social aspects of the 2013 annual growth survey (ags), which received very broad support in the committee. i take this as an illustration that, beyond the potential divergence of views on the appropriate macroeconomic policy mix, employment and social cohesion are objectives shared by all groups. the commission tabled the 2013 ags against a difficult background, and the employment and social development report also gave a detailed picture of this. we have increasing unemployment in the eu, polarisation between various groups of member states, and a clear social emergency in some of these member states. the commission proposed to continue to work along the previously agreed policy priorities, ensuring that the fiscal consolidation is differentiated and future growth potential, as well as essential safety nets, are preserved. in particular, the commission considers that member states should prioritise investment, such as in education. they should maintain and reinforce coverage and effectiveness of employment services and active labour market policies, such as training for the unemployed and youth guarantee schemes. the modernisation of social protection systems should ensure their effectiveness, adequacy and sustainability. in the ags, the commission presented very strong guidance to member states for their employment, labour market and social policies. the commission recommends further efforts to improve the resilience of the labour market, invest in human capital and involve the social partners. this year we focus in particular on long-term unemployment and on youth unemployment by insisting on the implementation of the youth guarantee – as the presidency also mentioned – and on internal flexibility. we also encourage member states to monitor wage developments and emphasise the role of minimum wage levels in order to strike the right balance between employment creation and adequate income. the 2013 ags puts a strong emphasis on job creation and on the potential of expanding sectors such as the green economy, healthcare and ict. we insist on the need to work on a future-oriented and reliable legal framework, the development of adequate skills and targeted public support. in that context, we also emphasise the importance of mobility. for that i strongly believe that the capacity of the eures network and of public employment services needs to be boosted. the commission will scrutinise member states’ policies and ongoing reforms, as well as their potential socioeconomic impact in the context of the 2013 semester. the europe 2020 objectives continue to provide guidance and measurement in all these efforts. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly grateful to andreas schwab and the other rapporteurs of the imco committee for having carried the colors of the internal market so high and so strongly, in particular by supporting for many years our joint efforts for what we have called the single market act i and ii, sixty proposals which should facilitate the proper functioning of the internal market, mobility, innovation, investment, export, simplification, social entrepreneurship and many other dimensions. the report, mr schwab, has the immense merit of having emphasized one of the essential components of the internal market - which is perhaps even a precondition for it - namely the good governance of the internal market. and this governance, the application of the internal market rules, is now at the heart of the european semester. i would also like to thank my colleague olli rehn in your presence for supporting this integration in the european semester exercise within the commission. ladies and gentlemen, you will remember the report by mario monti. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the internal market is not the whole economy, it is not the whole growth, it is simply the floor. if this floor is fractured by too many national tax, administrative and bureaucratic laws, if it is not solid, everything that is put on it - private initiatives, initiatives of public enterprises, local authorities, states, europe - is less solid. that is why we have put this agenda into practice, to consolidate the internal market with you, to boost competitiveness, to promote growth and employment. we cannot just talk to the citizen about fiscal consolidation, regulation and budgetary surveillance. we must also act and work on the job. i believe that to win the battle for competitiveness and employment, every man is needed, every company is needed and every territory is needed. it is in this spirit that we want to create a better ecosystem for initiative and employment, for consumers and for businesses, with the single market act i and ii. since the beginning of this mandate, we have significantly raised our governance requirements and improved our tools in response to the effects of the crisis. the commission presented in june 2012 a new round of initiatives to strengthen the governance of the single market, which starts each spring and ends in the european semester of the following year. why these goals and this new cycle? because we cannot make new rules without taking care of their effective application and without looking at what has happened with the previous rules as well. it is commonplace, but i say it anyway, to point out that legislation which is not applied is not only useless but also detrimental to the functioning of the internal market. it's a matter of credibility. we have thus set more requirements in terms of the time and quality of transposition of the rules and have put the member states in front of their responsibilities. i would also like to confirm to the european parliament that, in order to ensure that all member states take up this requirement of quality and speed, i have been visiting each member state for the past two years to meet personally with all the national officials responsible for implementing internal market legislation. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. i know that you want to go further, ladies and gentlemen, and i have heard and followed the recommendations of the andreas schwab report, and i share almost all of its intentions. we have only one reservation, i would remind you, which concerns the idea of a legislative act. although we welcome any initiative to strengthen the internal market, we have doubts, as i said to andreas schwab, about the existence of a legal basis for such an initiative. but for the rest, we agree and we will go in the direction you ask. we need to go further in 2013 by strengthening the qualitative monitoring of the functioning of the internal market, firstly by publishing the single market scoreboard exclusively online in an interactive and visual form. this scoreboard, which the college is expected to adopt before the summer, will aim to detail member states' performance in a very candid way - which may not be comfortable for everyone - in the different strands of the governance of the single market, and will provide a clear picture of the strengths, where everything is going well, and the weaknesses, to allow for progress. this table will include the evaluations of many tools for citizens and businesses: solvit, which is now functioning properly, the infringement and transposition of internal market rules in the member states, your europe or your europe advice or imi. as lucinda creighton said earlier, we are preparing a report on the state of integration, which will be published in the autumn and which will become an important component of the european semester cycle. this report will analyse the main remaining barriers to integration in the member states and we will look in particular at cross-border issues in four key areas with the greatest growth potential: services, networks (energy and transport) and the digital economy. in this context, we will help the member states to overcome the remaining obstacles, in particular through this work of consultation with national officials and elected representatives, and we will also apply, as i have already said before this house, zero tolerance where efforts have not yet been made. i say to mr harbour, to mr schwab and to the other members of the imco committee: we need to have a good association with the european parliament, with your imco committee, both before and after this report. that is why i recently proposed to your rapporteurs that an annual conference be held in the european parliament, with the member states, to take an objective look at the governance of the single market at the beginning of each autumn. finally, mr president, i would like to ask your permission not to stay for the whole of this debate because i have to take part in a trilogue with you and the council on the text concerning the basel iii rules in the banking sector.
the committee on budgets' rapporteur for the opinion. - mr president, commissioners, members of the council, it has already been said here that the european semester is a mechanism for coordinating economic and budgetary policies, and that is why we cannot forget the european budget. the ultimate objective of both the member states and the european institutions is the same: to get out of the crisis, to restore growth and to create jobs. it is therefore incomprehensible that the annual growth survey does not take account of the european budget and its contribution to the achievement of these objectives, because we are talking about a budget exclusively intended for investment, which complements national budgets and acts as an anti-cyclical tool, especially at a time when national budgets are marked by cuts and austerity. it is a budget which invests in fundamental areas such as regional policy or research policy, and which is in line with what the council agreed last june in the pact for growth and employment, and that is why we are asking for consistency. we are aware of the great sacrifices being made at national level, but we cannot accept a cut of eur 100 billion in the next financial framework, which would bring us back to 2004 levels of investment. nor can we allow member states to use their contributions to the european budget as an accounting adjustment variable in their national budgets. unfortunately, in the last budget negotiations we have seen too many times how the council has artificially reduced payments and this has affected, fundamentally, the structural funds, something which is totally contrary to the pact for growth and employment, which was intended to reallocate the structural funds and support small and mediumsized enterprises, to devote them to research and innovation, and also to combat youth unemployment. that is why we urgently need a reform of the financing of the european budget and, of course, genuine own resources. and we also need to consider the possibility of excluding national contributions to the european budget from the calculation of the structural deficit. and finally, we in the committee on budgets want to stress the need for the next financial framework to be free of cuts and therefore able to finance all those growth policies which we all share but which, in reality, are not sufficiently funded.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, 2012 ended in recession and with 26 million unemployed in the european union, economic activity is forecast to continue to fall in the euro area this year. this is the balance sheet for the sixth year of the crisis and also for a policy of simultaneous, rapid and indiscriminate authorship. and it has also led some member states into the fiscal abyss, an economic contraction as a result of drastic and accelerated fiscal adjustment. the european semester should strengthen european economic governance, and its recommendation is to reflect a european policy that takes into account interactions and common added value. surplus countries must mobilize the margins that deficit countries lack. macroeconomic commitments and the development of structural reforms require discipline, but so do eurobonds. europe is the best weapon against the crisis. between 2007 and 2011, private investment plunged 20 times as fast as consumption and 4 times as fast as gdp. there is liquidity and lack of confidence. to boost private investment, a consistent european perspective has to be offered. europe must bet on itself: instead of a multiannual financial framework which will diminish with the crisis, it is time for a multiannual financial framework which will diminish the crisis and eventually overcome it. growth and jobs must be the priority of all public authorities in the european union.
madam president, commissioners, mr rehn, whenever i have heard you speak of the european semester in the various speeches you have made, i have always ended up with the same question: what is the reality of the commissioner's life? because when you once again present us with an increasingly optimistic future before this parliament, when you tell us that we are gradually emerging from the crisis and achieving our objectives, without giving a single explanation of what has happened so far, without making a single self-critical analysis of what has happened so far in the european union as a whole, i simply think that your words have no credibility and, moreover, that all you do is to push millions of citizens to think that the commission does not work for them. because, of course, commissioner, this is not the first strategy that has been put before us in this parliament: it is the third time that the commission has used the same strategy, that it has promised us economic forecasts that it has been correcting quarter after quarter, year after year, and which are therefore being systematically breached. does the commissioner not think that instead of revising the economic forecasts, the underlying strategy of the commission to ensure that these economic forecasts are met should be revised? does mr rehn not think it would be more appropriate, rather than correcting those forecasts, to change some things politically? i will give you some alternatives: the first, as i say, is to make deficit reduction timetables compatible with economic growth and job creation. there are studies which tell us that, simply by speeding up the timetable for reducing the deficit, we could save 85 billion euros a year. not the 100 billion promised in july over seven years, of which we have not yet seen anything, but 85 billion real euros per year to, for example, strengthen the youth employment guarantee fund in a vigorous, european and sufficiently funded way, and not that marketing ploy which the commission proposed to us a few months ago and which has been reduced to a mere recommendation, without any financial or budgetary guarantee. another alternative is to get down from the political arrogance in which they seem to be framed and to recognize that there are divergent fiscal multipliers: how is it going to be the same today to reduce one point of public expenditure in greece or spain as in germany, france or italy? of course, within the european union there are different countries with better economic accounts, where greater efforts can be made from the point of view of austerity, but it is also true that today, in some countries, these excessive austerity efforts are killing us economically and suffocating us socially. they are pushing the citizens to the depths of despair. and of course they also keep their word: stop demanding that the member states, through their national reform programmes, do what the commission and the european council are committed to do: fiscal union, banking union and budgetary coordination. and of course, do not talk to us about competitiveness at any price, because competitiveness at the cost of lowering wage costs and the cost of pensions; competitiveness at the cost of the lack of protection of citizens, who are left without collective agreements; competitiveness at the cost of dismantling our european social model, mr commissioner, competitiveness at any price, for this this parliamentary group does not count. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a "blue card" question. mr bokros, if you are referring to the price, to the cost of the risk premium that our country, spain, has today, i would say that it could be lower if, as i said before, the commitments made by the european council in july had been implemented within the time limits, and in particular with regard to the banking union. but as regards the policy of self-sufficiency - which, i do not deny, must be implemented in our country and in the rest of the euro area - i believe that it must be implemented within different time limits from those set by the european commission today, because in spain, after making an effort of several points of gdp in cuts in public spending, the reduction of the deficit is not going to be the foreseeable one, which was being negotiated with the commission. in other words, the more public spending cuts we make, the more difficult it is for us to meet the deficit targets set by the european commission, and all we get is despair.
madam president, we are faced with a report, the schwab report, which is important and well-constructed, because both some states and certain associations of businessmen constantly denounce the existence of administrative obstacles, of different regulations and of obstacles which prevent the existence of the single european market. many examples could be given here now. i will mention only two: there are large supermarkets which have been denounced because they require that the meat they sell for sausages be of national origin; or biomass pellets, which have to comply with different regulations in each member state. this parliament must push for the destruction of all these barriers and walls which fragment the markets. let us not forget that the single market is the seed that has given rise to the european union, in accordance with the teachings of the founding fathers. moreover, despite the many difficulties that the european union always faces, we must continue to build it and to move forward, to quote what humphrey bogart says to ingrid bergman in the film casablanca: 'we will always have the internal market'.
madam president, commissioner, minister creighton, the european semester is an opportunity to identify the strengths and weaknesses of our system and to make clear what our road map is. and it's especially important at a time when building trust is paramount. parliament, as the institution representing the european citizens, has an obligation to make its position clear. in this case, we must begin to set the tone for much-needed economic growth, which is essential to tackling a worrying level of unemployment, especially youth unemployment. i agree with commissioner olli rehn that we need a strong policy and industrial base in europe. and i hope that the trade policy that commissioner de gucht is designing will be in line with this need. i would also like to call for accountability. we are playing a very big game here: our future and that of future generations. but i would also like to appeal to us not to fall into the false debate between austerity and growth. they're two sides of the same coin. we must be firm and deliver on the fiscal consolidation targets, but we must also be open to the possibility of making those targets more flexible and adapting them to the current economic reality and the present economic needs, as already set out in the six-pack. the european parliament must ensure and monitor that this is done, creating the environment of trust mentioned above, which is so necessary to overcome the crisis.
mr president, in the context of the european semester, we have to continue with deep reforms and fiscal consolidation. the euro zone debt is not the us debt, and we cannot print money as the americans do. in spain, the central government has imposed public deficit targets on the regions that make no economic sense. a 0.7% gdp target for regions is totally unfair. regions provide public health, education and welfare state services. at the same time, the spanish central government continues to build high-speed trains and increase military spending. this year, spain is allowed to have a 4.5% deficit that should be fairly shared between central and regional governments, as the european parliament voted last month in the public finances report. however, the spanish central government wants to keep 85% of the margin allowed by the european commission, even though the central government represents only 50% of total public expenditure in spain. i have a question for commissioner rehn. do you think that spain’s public deficit target is fairly shared between the different levels of government?
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this reflects the importance which parliament attaches to the european semester, and i hope that the spring european council will take parliament's recommendations into account. i am convinced that mrs creighton will be our first advocate in that european council. i also thank the commissioner for his contributions, who has stayed until the end of the debate. the european semester is a very important step in the improvement of the european union's economic governance, but transparency and democratic legitimacy must be key points in this process. the national parliaments and the european parliament still play a very limited role in its elaboration. mr mann said that, and he's right. if we want european citizens to understand and support the measures agreed in this semester, it is necessary that parliaments, together with the social partners and civil society, have a say in the report's priorities. the next few months are going to be difficult, as the economy is still showing signs of great weakness and the social impact of the crisis is still very severe. at a time when financial stability has improved substantially, although there are still significant risks that we must not relax, the return to growth and job creation must be a priority. it is important to strike the right balance between budgetary consolidation and economic measures on the one hand and social policy and measures for growth and employment on the other. in view of the still persistent deficits and high debt levels, continued fiscal consolidation programmes are necessary to ensure the sustainability of public finances, but must be carried out in a differentiated, proportionate and growth-friendly manner. the committee on employment and social affairs has succeeded in reaching a result which has the support of the majority of its members and which we hope the european council will take note of.
mr president, i would like to say here that i fully support the policy of this document, and i think that the commission must be strongly supported in the new conference. however, i would like to support amendments nos 13, 47 and 49, in which we believe that there should be an exception for polar bears, namely the one requested by the government of canada and the one requested by the inuit. why would you do that? because canada has had an agreement with the inuit for years, regulating their hunting and their way of life - since the inuit live off bears - and they have managed to multiply the number of bears in addition to practicing their traditional customs. then, we must reward those governments and those peoples who have been able to maintain their traditions and live together while multiplying and preserving the species. i think the world of prohibition has to be able to recognize the exception. an exception in which the coexistence between animals and people constitutes for a people its way of life, its way of feeding. this is an intangible cultural heritage which is based on the preservation of the natural environment, on the protection of animals, and which must be able to coexist with those harsh measures which we should even increase in the case of those who are hunting bears in russia and establishing an illegal market, or animals in africa, and who are destroying the system we have inherited from our ancestors. i therefore ask, and i repeat, that amendments nos 13, 47 and 49 be supported, since the canadian government has protected this exception and has demonstrated its viability.
mr president, when we talk about climate change, we always find that human action is one of the causes. when we talk about appendix i it is unbearable, but we have to recognize that direct human action is still the main cause of it being more necessary than ever. and it must be said, loud and clear, that this human action sometimes even becomes domestic. i think we have to say that it is ridiculous that some fashions encourage the exploitation of very rare species, such as reptiles or protected turtles, as pets. i've always wondered how much company a snake makes in the home, especially when it's bought illegally. but if there is one thing i welcome about this resolution, it is that it strongly condemns poaching, especially of elephants. and it should also prohibit such hunting to be done only to have sports trophies. it seems to me that even if it is done by fine people, millionaires and some monarch with family problems and bored with his limited competence, it should not be allowed to be a sport killing animals of this caliber, killing these pachyderms. we are in the second decade of the 21st century and this is both un-noble and un-human.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i also congratulate and applaud the rapporteurs who have achieved this compromise between our committees, because i think that this gives us a very strong signal of the appreciation which this parliament has for the idea of corporate social responsibility, which is also a way of understanding the company. as the commission says in its communication, it is to understand the company with the responsibilities it has towards society. because there are other legitimate interests which must also be respected by companies: workers, territories, the environment, human rights... it is therefore an idea which we in the committee on employment are very deeply committed to. i welcome our consensus that there can be no healthy economy in a sick society, and there can be no healthy economy, and it is in the interest of business, in an unjust society. i also hope that this commitment means that it does not have to be all voluntary, there can also be compulsory issues, especially in times of crisis like this. tomorrow thousands of arcelor mittal workers will be there to remind us that europe must not look the other way but set an example of political will and commitment, precisely in times of crisis, so that irresponsible businessmen will find themselves in the face of our institutions.
in writing. we are living through an economic crisis that is gradually undermining the confidence of our citizens. at this point, we should ask ourselves what we can do to encourage it again. given the high level of development of the productive sectors in the eu, we must prevent our companies from making such fundamental mistakes as not being transparent or accountable, or not keeping their accounts properly. a paradigmatic example is what is currently happening in the sorian town of san leonardo de yagüe: the company puertas norma, which was economically viable and has also been described as 'the most modern factory in europe in its sector from a technological point of view'. we are facing a really dramatic and difficult case, since 41% of the region's working population is involved, that is to say, entire families are affected, with the consequent depopulation of this rural area in the interior of spain. i therefore welcome mr baldassarre's initiative to contribute to the development of a social market economy by combating the irresponsibility of companies towards society, the environment and workers, and thus guaranteeing jobs and facilitating economic recovery.
mr president, since i have been in the european parliament i have been carrying out a small crusade against the noise made by motorcycles with the so-called 'free-escape'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as i have been informed by specialist engineers, the reduction or elimination of these so-called 'free-range' is technically possible for motorcycle manufacturers. i regret that my concern is still not adequately reflected in the - by the way, extraordinarily scattered - legislation which the commission is promoting and parliament is adopting.
mr president, when we vote on this report, we must do so with the honesty of recognizing that noise pollution policies remain the unfinished business of european union policies. in this sense, i have been able to meet people who are really sick and affected by noise problems. with this report we now have a great opportunity to take a great step forward and in that respect the committee has put forward a good proposal in the report for annex iii. those who think that this is a very ambitious proposal should consider that it is a good starting point for achieving the necessary balance between whatever the council's position is and the highest aspirations of this parliament, which are. and remember that the argument that jobs are being destroyed is a very strong argument. if we consider the commission's impact report to be a serious and respectable document, we can see from it that there is no impact on jobs. we are talking about noise pollution and not gas emissions; therefore, i ask for rigor, seriousness and for it to be approved.
mr president, i agree with what so many members have said throughout this debate. these are the priorities and therefore the conditions for the european parliament to approve the budget: a higher level of resources in this budget, priorities geared to growth, employment and innovation, own resources, at least as a first step, and greater flexibility. but i would like to stress that part of the budget must show a different face of europe to the europe of the future, which is its young people, young people who in large parts of the union are unable to find jobs, are unable to find opportunities, and who do not want to see the face of the successes of the past, but the answers of the present. i therefore support the youth guarantee and the special programme or arrangement, on two conditions: that they have additional resources which do not consist merely in redirecting existing resources, and that they do not require additional sacrifices from the countries most in need.
in writing. − in favour. with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union enlarged its customs union. consequently, the eu was obliged under wto rules (article xxiv(6) of gatt 1994) to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights in the schedules of any of the acceding members for the purpose of agreeing on a mutually satisfactory compensatory adjustment to offset the increase in bound duties and the resulting meaningful losses. such adjustment is due if the adoption of the eu’s external tariff regime results in an increase in tariffs beyond the level for which the acceding country has bound itself at the wto, whilst taking ‘due account of reductions of duties on the same tariff line made by other constituents of the customs union upon its formation’, as required by paragraph 6 of article xxiv.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report because the member states need clear guidelines for employment policies now more than ever. unemployment is the main problem in europe, especially in countries like mine, which had an average unemployment rate of over 25% in 2012 and in the case of youth unemployment this percentage is over 55%. the spanish socialists took a first step last week by proposing to the main political forces and trade unions an employment pact to begin taking action as soon as possible to remedy this unsustainable situation. however, the eu cannot leave member states to act alone in the face of this difficulty which is putting thousands of families at risk of poverty and social exclusion. we need to send clear guidelines to the 27 and it also has to be the eu that ensures the creation of skilled and trained employment and a workforce that is responsive to changes in the economic and labour markets.
in writing. − we started the week with a new record number of unemployed in spain: 4.98 million people are unemployed, an increase of 132 055 people compared to december 2012. despite the high unemployment rate, active employment policies to help the unemployed worker find a job again that is appropriate to his or her abilities are almost non-existent. the amount of the active policies has decreased by 21% compared to 2011. in addition to requiring increased budgetary allocation, these policies need to be modernised, taking inspiration from successful unemployment activation models such as those implemented in sweden, austria or denmark. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal that the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states set out in the annex to the council decision of 21 october 2010 be maintained during the current year and taken into account by the member states in their respective employment policies. those guidelines are essential for the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the aim of this directive is to impose deadlines on member states for deciding on the prices and reimbursements of medicinal products, with the aim of removing barriers to access to the pharmaceutical market. the aim of the commission's legislative proposal is not to guarantee that people living in the european union have access to universal health care and medicines free of charge, but rather to impose a series of requirements on member states in terms of prices and reimbursements which, under the laudable pretext of ensuring transparency, will in practice mean a subordination to the interests of the pharmaceutical industry and the possibility for the latter to unilaterally impose its prices on the states. i therefore voted against this report, in order to oppose the further dismantling, increasing cost and precariousness of public health services in the european union.
in writing. abstention from voting. the commission proposal was not acceptable, as it was largely dominated by the interests of the pharmaceutical industries. in particular, it was intended to shorten the time taken for the examination of the pricing of new medicinal products, which would considerably weaken the quality of the evaluations of these products. the proposed directive would also have weakened the tasks of the health technology assessment (hta) institutions and the high health authority, which assesses in particular the medical service provided by medicinal products. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. so we decided not to.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because i share its objectives and i think it is a step forward compared to what we have, but i hope that in the negotiations which are now opening some improvements will be considered which, incomprehensibly, have not been included in this procedure. we want a more sustainable sector, but we do not yet have a european map that precisely identifies where there is over-fishing and over-capacity. this would help us to control and correct the fisheries precisely. it would also help us to achieve maximum sustainable yield within a set timeframe that we share. we have not adopted a definition of small-scale fishing today. the amendments voted on excluded fleets and professionals using sustainable fishing gear and techniques such as 'hunting' or 'live bait', which favour the quality of fresh and processed product. i hope that, like regionalisation, it will allow policies to be adapted to this diversity of the sector. finally, i would say that we must achieve a more progressive and open system of governance. the sector, practitioners, associations, processors, consumers and scientific institutions need to play a more active and transparent role in the cfp, which also needs long-term management plans based on scientific data. i hope we can achieve that in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rodust report on the european parliament's position on the reform of the common fisheries policy and against the commission's initial proposal. while all sectors agree on the recognition of the major shortcomings of the common fisheries policy and the need for reform of the policy, the commission's good intentions do not end the centralisation of the cfp and will lead to further liberalisation of the sector. on the contrary, the cfp should take account of the complex and diverse reality of fisheries in the eu and define, in addition to environmental objectives, a clear support for the socioeconomic dimension of the cfp. i have supported the european parliament's position, however, because it improves on the commission's position in its desire to ensure the livelihood of the marine environment through sustainable fishing. it opposes transferable fishing concessions and proposes a gradual ban on discards, the promotion of maximum sustainable yield and the need for long-term planning to restore fish stocks by 2020.
in writing. - i voted yes. the european fleet is oversized and has consequently overfished to dramatic limits. we had to correct the course and we did. parliament has finally voted today in favour of a sustainable eu fisheries policy. in particular, parliament has backed plans to require sustainable fishing levels from 2015 onwards, to allow fish stocks to be restored to abundant levels by 2020. the key is that more fish in the sea means more profitable fishing for fishermen, so this will benefit both the environment and the sector. the commission has also voted to put an end to the nonsense of mass waste, stressing that the priority is to promote more selective arts. the greens also welcome the fact that parliament has supported our proposal to make fishing rights conditional on the guarantee of better social and environmental practices, with a view to rewarding the more sustainable artisanal fishing sector. the overall result is therefore certainly positive.
in writing. - i voted against the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) because it has not been designed to take account of the different territorial realities, nor has it been adapted to the great differences between the segments of the european fleet. i believe that the implementation of the cfp in 2014 will have harmful consequences for the mediterranean fisheries and aquaculture sector, and especially for the catalan fisheries sector. this cfp establishes a policy which focuses on the characteristics of the high and very high-altitude fleet, and does not include the coastal or littoral fleet characteristic of the mediterranean sea. the proposed discard method does not take into account the unique discard problem in each fishery. without prejudice to progress on environmental aspects, it is necessary to take account of economic, environmental and social aspects in an equitable manner. the sector is currently facing a high price disparity and high production costs. for this reason, it is not appropriate to reserve the structural funds exclusively for environmental protection policies and actions, in order to ensure the development and maintenance of the fisheries and aquaculture sector.
in writing. - i abstained on amendment no 242 because i think that the subject under consideration requires more detailed study. i voted against amendment no 233, although i am obviously against the needless suffering of marine life, and i express this by voting in favour of the amendments calling for responsible fishing and dealing with the techniques least harmful to the marine environment and its fauna, as demonstrated by the vote on amendment no 234.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which supports a legislative proposal aimed at reducing the noise level of motor vehicles. the text includes measures such as the creation of a noise labelling system for new vehicles, while setting lower noise limits for new passenger and freight vehicles. it also sets standards for the manufacture of hybrid and electric vehicles that must be audible to pedestrians. measures such as those provided for in this regulation are very necessary, as continuous exposure to high levels of noise caused by traffic causes health problems for the urban population, and it is estimated that more than half of the eu's urban population is exposed to noise levels above 55 decibels. i have therefore supported this proposal which contains measures aimed at protecting public health as well as the environment.
in writing. − against. centre-right meps have shamelessly backed the demands of noisy carmakers and voted to weaken draft eu rules on vehicle noise. this vote may be a victory for the noisy car industry, with the din of its intense lobby still echoing around parliament, but it is clearly a loss for public health and the environment. despite clear evidence on the negative impact of noise pollution on public health, a majority of meps backed proposals for weaker noise limit values. combined with various other exemptions, which were also endorsed today, the overall result will lead to no meaningful improvement in eu rules on vehicle noise. given this is the first time this legislation has been updated in 20 years, this makes today’s vote all the more irresponsible. by voting to put the interests of noisy carmakers and drivers ahead of public health and the environment, centre-right meps have made a mockery of their role as supposed representatives of european citizens. we call on eu governments to put public health first, when environment ministers consider the draft legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of stricter european legislation on noise levels from motor vehicles, because it seriously affects the well-being and health of european citizens and because technology has made it possible 'for a decade' to make the necessary adaptations without damaging the competitiveness of the motor industry. the adaptation periods are also sufficiently generous for the latter. i complain that the directive does not cover the noise produced by motorcycles in the so-called 'free-range' mode. these are absolutely gratuitous inconveniences which are only intended to create unease among the population who suffer from them. as i have been informed by specialist engineers, the reduction or elimination of so-called 'free runs' is technically possible for manufacturers. i regret that this concern is still not adequately reflected in the - by the way, extraordinarily scattered - legislation being promoted by the commission and by this parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the torvalds report on the increase in co-financing of the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of nationals of third countries, because at this time of crisis in the capitalist system, many eu member states are experiencing difficulties in co-financing european funds. in this case, the commission has put forward a proposal which aims to increase the union's co-financing rate by 20 percentage points, thereby reducing the co-financing needs of these member states. while funds such as the european refugee fund are insufficient to ensure in practice that the rights of refugees arriving in the eu are respected, i voted in favour of increasing eu co-financing for such funds, as it introduces a solidarity mechanism between member states in the funding of such funds.
in writing. − in favour. the impact of the economic and financial crisis on public finances has been severe in a number of member states. while most member states have had to take far-reaching measures to bring down debt levels and decrease budget deficits in order to bring public finances back onto a sustainable path, some countries have been affected to the extent that they have had recourse to the financial support mechanisms of the eu. as a consequence of their great economic difficulties, these member states have encountered problems in fulfilling the co-financing requirements associated with eu funding. these difficulties are evident also with regard to funds within the framework of the general programme ‘solidarity and management of migration flows’.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, from my political training, we are against a strong europe and against community funding to finance a european union migration policy which criminalises and represses immigrants, restricts their admission to community territory and facilitates their expulsion. this repressive eu immigration policy leaves thousands of people exposed to human trafficking and exploitation as illegal labour in conditions akin to slavery. i have therefore had no choice but to oppose this report, which, in a time of systemic crisis, seeks to shield the eu by increasing funding for the militarization of its external borders, in flagrant violation of the right of asylum of thousands of people. on the contrary, by voting against i want to call for respect for the rights of migrants and refugees and to show once again my rejection of strong europe and its persecutory, repressive and exploitative character, and its instruments, such as this external borders fund.
in writing. − in favour. it is in the interests of all member states that the commitments made with regard to migration do not suffer from the economic difficulties in some member states. as the participants to the recent committee on civil liberties mission to greece have born witness, there are a number of projects in the making that require increased co-financing rates in order to be implemented. this applies to, for example, the renovation of detention centres in poor condition and improvements in technical equipment needed for efficient border management. it is essential that member states with significant economic challenges still can handle the tasks related to the management of migration flows.
in writing. − in favour. the technical conservation measures for fishery resources are among the key elements of a regionalised approach to fisheries management and come on top of the annual/biannual decisions on catch possibilities. technical measures lay down the rules on fishing zones and fishing gear used, as opposed to quantities (fishing effort) and/or catches (tacs and quotas) authorised. technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that however and wherever fishing activity is carried out, it is done so in a sustainable manner. the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and have thus a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
madam president, i support this proposal on violence against women, which is always timely, but particularly in these days when public opinion is living with consternation the sexual assaults that have affected seven european citizens in acapulco. i share the views expressed in this resolution and i am in favour of establishing minimum european standards to combat this scourge, which should generate a level of debate and social alarm commensurate with the number of victims it causes and the costs of all kinds it causes. i would also encourage that, if the commission does not take the initiative soon, it should be women and men who are complicit, through the european citizens' initiative, who propose this regulation; this will encourage a social debate on the matter at european level, which is very useful as a tool for raising awareness and preventing the problem. finally, i suggest that the regulation should oblige the states to propose comprehensive, multidisciplinary and coordinated policies to deal with gender-based violence, with protocols that integrate prevention, reaction and care for victims, taking into account good practices that, at regional and national level in europe, have proven effective in combating this problem.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as it underlines the need to prevent and eradicate all forms of violence against women and girls, a priority theme of the 57th session of the united nations commission on the status of women, to be held from 4 to 15 march 2013. the eu must play an important role in this process and make every effort to ensure a positive outcome. i also supported this resolution calling on the commission to evaluate eu policy in the areas of preventing and combating violence in the context of humanitarian aid and international development aid. the fight against gender-based violence is inseparable from the fight against poverty, the wage gap and female unemployment, which lead to an increase in women's marginalization and dependency. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european agency for the evaluation of carcinogens and mutagens.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the basis of the council and commission statements on a peaceful solution to the kurdish question in turkey.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, this afternoon’s debate on the kurdish issue takes place only a few weeks after the terrible and brutal killings of three pkk activists in paris last month. we share parliament’s profound shock at those killings but they serve to underline to all of us the importance of settling the kurdish issue; that is in the interests of all concerned. a settlement would play a vital role in helping ensure the security and the stability of the region. the kurdish issue also has important implications for eu enlargement, which is a key policy of the european union and a particular priority for the irish presidency. it is important for turkey’s accession process, and is raised regularly in the context of the accession negotiations. as a candidate country, turkey has to meet the copenhagen political criteria, including the stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. the kurdish issue has implications in all of these areas, but also extends to related areas, such as cultural rights and socio-economic considerations. the eu’s accession partnership with turkey includes a number of priorities which particularly relate to the situation in the east and south-east of the country. these highlight the need for turkey to develop a comprehensive approach to reducing regional disparities. this means improving the situation in the region so as to enhance the economic, social and cultural opportunities for all turkish citizens including those of kurdish origin. clearly, the kurdish issue constitutes a major and longstanding challenge for turkey. continuing terrorist attacks make it harder to reach a solution. i wish to reiterate here that the eu and its member states strongly condemn terrorism in all forms and are working closely with turkey to combat the terrorist threat. the pkk is listed by the eu as a terrorist organisation. within the eu, the pkk is involved mainly in fund-raising, including through criminal activity. this has led to arrests in a number of european countries. the eu and its member states are also active in cooperating with turkey in combating terrorism and associated criminal activities via counter-terrorism training and information exchange. whilst much of these activities are devoted specifically to addressing the pkk, we are also working closely with turkey in tackling all forms of terrorism, including in the global counter-terrorism forum in which the eu and turkey co-chair the working group on the horn of africa region. whilst the eu has consistently condemned pkk terrorism, it is clear that the wider kurdish issue can only be addressed through a peaceful, comprehensive and sustainable solution. it is a conflict which has claimed far too many victims over the course of three decades and which has created a climate of instability and profound mistrust. against this background, the eu is fully supportive of the ongoing talks between the turkish government and the pkk aimed at ending the conflict. this is a significant new initiative which offers a positive perspective for the future. we welcome these moves, and we call on both sides to use this opportunity to make real progress. we also welcome the fact that there is cross-party support, and backing from civil society, for this initiative. there is a clear indication that there is a real desire for peace. we will continue to encourage an approach which is inclusive and broad-based. this is essential if it is to have a chance of success. a successful outcome would also play a crucial role in turkey’s own reform process. it would help encourage further political and constitutional reform which is important for turkey’s eu accession. mr president, honourable members, this is a courageous initiative and we need to recognise it as such. we are at the start of what is likely to be a lengthy process. not everybody is committed to it succeeding. indeed there will always be some who attempt to derail such a process for their own misguided ends. the killings in paris remind us tragically that there is strong opposition to any negotiations from some quarters. but such events cannot be allowed to derail negotiations. our own experience closer to home shows that any peace process requires both courage and commitment. we should therefore give our full and unequivocal support to this initiative. i am sure that members here will join me in offering their own support.
member of the commission. − mr president, throughout the years we have consistently underlined that finding a solution to the kurdish issue and to all the problems in the south-east of turkey requires the widest possible contribution of all democratic forces and an open and frank public discussion that should be conducted in full respect of the basic fundamental freedoms. that is why the ongoing discussions are of such historic importance for turkey. they constitute a great window of opportunity for the ending of terrorism that would hopefully pave the way for an overall solution to the kurdish issue. the fact that the process has met the support of all stakeholders, notably the opposition, and has been welcomed by important parts of turkish society gives us more reasons to be optimistic and to believe that the process is truly result-oriented. a successful outcome would not only put an end to a conflict that has claimed tens of thousands of lives over the past three decades: it would solve many outstanding problems in turkey and play a crucial role in fostering political and constitutional reforms; it would be a strong incentive for the adoption of the fourth judicial reform package, actually addressing the key problems related to freedom of expression and other fundamental rights; and it would facilitate the redrafting of the constitution with respect to the rights of citizenship. in this regard, a solution of this issue would have a strong impact on the accession process of turkey as such, as it would further consolidate the role of the european union as a benchmark for reforms in turkey. in turn, putting the accession negotiations back on the right track would be a strong incentive for supporting a solution for this issue and the reform process in general. in the meantime, i welcome steps such as the recent adoption of the law allowing for the defence of kurds in kurdish as an important confidence-building measure in the context of the ongoing talks. regarding the redrafting of the constitution, we have understood that it has entered a critical stage. while all parties are to be congratulated for the constructive attitude so far, now is the time for results in the spirit of compromise, and i cannot underline enough the importance of keeping up the participatory process. finally, a few words on the tragic events which occurred in paris last month. we are aware of the distress this triple murder has provoked. we are confident that ongoing investigations by the french authorities will shed full light on this crime. we encourage all parties involved not to let this horrible incident or other possible provocations in the future distract them from their goal to achieve peace. it is crucial that the european union as a whole conveys its strong and clear support for these ongoing efforts. it remains equally important that we coordinate our messages of support to turkey. the commission stands ready to assist where it can, including in using our financial assistance under our instrument for pre-accession support to support a post-conflict and reconciliation strategy and to expand further the socio-economic development and the political and cultural rights of citizens of kurdish origin.
i would like to express the support of our group for the process of dialogue which has been opened in turkey for a peaceful solution to the kurdish question. it is probably the most difficult and complex challenge that is presented in the process of modernisation and democratisation of turkey. it has very powerful and determined adversaries, both inside and outside turkey. and we have seen, with the murder of the three kurdish militants in paris a few days ago, how far these adversaries can go. however, all turkish problems have a kurdish dimension at their core, and it is very difficult to imagine a situation of democratic stability in turkey without the kurdish question being resolved or being put on a path to a solution. that is why we welcome the start of these talks. we believe that the first objective should be to put an end to violence, terrorism and hostilities. we heard what pkk leader abdullah öcalan said to the kurdish parliamentarians and representatives who visited him in prison on 3 january: "the era of violence is behind us". i wish it were! but concrete confidence-building measures must be taken, and the first of these is, without a doubt, an end to violence. then there is a path, which will be complex and difficult, of political reform, to deal with the kurdish question in turkey. i once read an article by a historian who said that if national problems were ever to be solved in the world, the kurdish problem would be the last to be solved. i hope not! but it is a very complex problem. but there are things to do. there is the opportunity for a new constitution that recognises and protects the linguistic rights of the kurds in the media, in school and in the courts; there is the possibility of a fairer interpretation of the anti-terrorism laws in turkey, so that they do not mean a repressive protection against the affirmation of the cultural identity of the kurds; and there is an electoral reform pending that could allow the expression of their position in democratic institutions.
colleagues, in principle we should now have catch-the-eye, but as the commissioner has to leave shortly i will give the floor to the commissioner and we will have catch-the-eye after the commissioner.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank all the members for a very thoughtful and a very important debate. i am grateful to those members who have expressed their support for the steps taken by the turkish authorities to make progress towards a lasting solution to the kurdish issue. i realise, as we all do, that the obstacles to a breakthrough remain formidable. many of you have referred to the recent brutal murders in paris, and i think this clearly shows that there is strong resistance in some quarters to making any progress. i also think that it is very important that we do not allow this to derail the crucial process of dialogue between both sides. i think that this certainly is a strongly-held view in this chamber, where the vast majority of speakers in this debate have talked about the need for dialogue to move forward and, to quote mr kelam, ‘to achieve a much-needed breakthrough’. i think that is certainly the objective. notwithstanding the difficulties that exist, i am convinced that the turkish authorities deserve our full support and encouragement on this path of dialogue. settling conflicts in our near neighbourhood is not only in our interest, but it is very much in turkey’s interests. this is even more the case at present as turkey is confronted with significant pressure as a result of the conflict in syria. a number of you have raised the issue of the link between the kurdish issue and turkey’s eu accession negotiations. i also touched upon this in my opening remarks. we have repeatedly underlined the importance of a comprehensive approach to the issue. the conditions must be created to allow the predominantly kurdish population in the east and south-east of turkey to enjoy full rights and freedoms and full respect for human rights, and we hope that turkey’s current work on a new constitution will provide a framework for several important reform efforts, including with regard to the kurdish issue. in conclusion, mr president, i think that it is important that all eu institutions and all member states will be watching very closely and very carefully the progress that is made in turkey as this process evolves.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the 22nd session of the united nations human rights council.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, it is my pleasure to address you on behalf of the high representative and to outline the eu’s work programme for the upcoming 22nd session of the un human rights council. fully committed to a strong and effective multilateral human rights system, the eu is becoming ever more active in bringing its human rights priorities to this important multilateral forum, and thereby asserting that the united nations matters. the awarding of the 2012 nobel peace prize to the eu recognised our sustained effort to promote and protect human rights worldwide. we take this as an encouragement to work even harder for this cause. the adoption of the eu human rights strategy and action plan and the appointment of stavros lambrinidis as eu special representative for human rights will help us to deliver on this task. throughout the last year, the un human rights council in geneva has again demonstrated its willingness to respond to the calls of millions of citizens for their rights. we have warmly supported the fact that more and more partners and other regional groups bring specific country situations to the human rights council. turning to the 22nd session, let me first underline that the acute crisis in syria must stay high on the agenda of the human rights council. the recent report of the un international commission of inquiry presents an alarming account of the increasingly sectarian nature of the conflict in that country. strongly committed to the fight against impunity, the eu will insist on the need for accountability for the serious human rights violations, including crimes under international law, perpetrated in syria. moreover, the mandate of the commission should be renewed further, and we will push for a one-year extension to give it a solid basis for its work. the eu will also continue to draw the attention of the international community to the persistent critical human rights situation in the democratic people’s republic of korea (dprk), which requires greater scrutiny. together with japan, the eu will present a resolution proposing the creation of an independent investigative mechanism, or commission of inquiry, in support of the special rapporteur, whose mandate should be renewed. the eu will also reinforce its calls on the government of the dprk urgently to improve the human rights situation in the country. remaining seriously concerned by the worrying human rights situation in iran, the eu will actively work for the extension of the mandate of the un special rapporteur, and press to increase the backing for this mandate through outreach and demarches, building on the recent work in the context of the un general assembly resolution on iran. the eu believes that the issues of accountability and reconciliation in sri lanka should stay on the agenda of the hrc, and is moreover concerned about recent attacks on the independence of the judiciary in that country. looking ahead, as last year, a key eu priority for the june session of the council will be the situation of human rights in belarus, which continues to give rise to grave concern. the reports of human rights abuses in mali are of increasing concern and should be discussed, based on the report of the high commissioner for human rights, which focuses on the north of the country. the eu also appeals to the authorities to immediately investigate the reported human rights abuses and to hold those responsible for human rights violations to account. the eu calls for a rapid mobilisation and deployment of human rights observers. moreover, in this or subsequent sessions, the eu will support the call for the council to address the state of human rights in bahrain, the democratic republic of the congo, eritrea, south sudan and sudan. we will also closely follow developments in the human rights situation in north africa, russia and in some of the central asian countries. it is heartening that one country regularly on the agenda of the council in recent years, myanmar/burma, is a source of good news. this is due in no small part to the tireless international attention and our collective support to the many democracy and human rights activists in the country, including nobel peace and sakharov price laureate daw aung san suu kyi. the eu welcomes the cooperation with myanmar/burma which led to the consensual adoption of a general assembly resolution in december 2012, reflecting the important recent progress in the country while also recognising remaining human rights concerns, for instance the remaining political prisoners as well as the situation of the rohinga in rakhine state and in the ethnic areas. the resolution, which will be presented at the 22nd session of the human rights council, will encourage further reforms. i am now turning to the thematic priorities of the eu. given our conviction that freedom of religion or belief is an inalienable human right and an essential pillar of safe and prosperous societies, the eu will again present a resolution on freedom of religion or belief. this year we will also aim at the consensual extension of a strong, independent mandate for the special rapporteur. high representative/vice-president ashton is concerned by the increasing number of acts of discrimination based on religion or belief across the world, and has condemned on several occasions the violence against persons belonging to religious minorities everywhere in the world. gender equality and women’s empowerment is also a core priority for the high representative, and we are very supportive of the holding of a high-level event celebrating the power of empowered women on 26 february. as in previous years, together with latin american and caribbean countries, the eu will devote particular attention to the rights of the child, this year focusing on the right to the enjoyment by children of the highest attainable standard of health. throughout the year, the eu will also work with a cross-regional group of like-minded partners to continue to keep the issue of discrimination and violence against individuals based on their sexual orientation and gender identity on the agenda of the united nations, in follow-up to the landmark resolution of the human rights council session of june 2011 and the successful cross-regional activities in new york. the eu will advocate freedom of association and assembly and pay special attention to the promotion and protection of freedom of expression, notably through the internet. we all recognise that the work of human rights defenders and civil society organisations is essential for democratic societies, and restrictions placed on ngo activities are a growing concern in many countries. the eu regularly defends the role of civil society representatives and human rights activists in the un context. we are strongly concerned by reports of threats and reprisals affecting those who cooperate with un human rights mechanisms, including the human rights council and its special procedures, and we strongly condemn and speak out against such incidents. as the full realisation of human rights is important for achieving sustainable development, the eu is pleased that the ‘mainstreaming panel’ of the human rights council will this year discuss the integration of human rights into the post-2015 global development agenda which the eu will advocate in line with the corresponding commitment in the human rights action plan. the march session of the human rights council is also a worldwide gathering of human rights activists. the human rights council is a crucial body for the promotion of universal human rights standards and the un’s main forum affording worldwide scrutiny of the human rights performance of all countries. with this in mind, the eu reaffirms its attachment to the universal periodic review (upr) and calls upon all un member states to effectively cooperate with this universal mechanism. the eu is also making every effort to preserve the universality of the upr and continues to appeal to israel to resume cooperation with the human rights council more broadly and with the office of the high commissioner. in closing, allow me to emphasise that the unwavering support of this house is very important for the success of our efforts. we look forward to the participation of a european parliament delegation in the high-level opening week of the council. we count on your engagement and continued vigilance to push us further to make good on our commitments. we know that you will use contacts with your counterparts in support of our initiatives and advocate new issues that should be taken up by the international community.
i am not saying that the european union should be a political union, but i am saying that it should be a political union, not a political union. firstly, there is no mention of the human rights situation in the occupied arab countries, such as western sahara, a non-self-governing territory that is pending decolonization. this friday, 24 saharawi activists are on trial in rabat, precisely in the wake of the violent dissolution of the el aaiún dignity camp in 2010. nor does it mention the turkish occupation of the north of the republic of cyprus, with an unacceptable policy of colonization which undermines the turkish cypriot integrity of the north of the island. and finally, the cia flights: it is well established that there were torture centers that were sanctioned by european union countries, and that, indeed, airspace was used to enable these illegal cia actions. i think it is very important that the european parliament, in line with its own resolutions, should take up issues such as western sahara and the situation in that non-self-governing territory, with its continuing violations of human rights, as well as the situation in the north of the republic of cyprus and, finally, the cia flights. these are matters which are dealt with in this house.
mr president, we are again talking about human rights in this house. the previous year was a very important year for the union. it was the approval of the strategic framework, the appointment of the special representative, the creation of a european democracy fund and, also, in 2012, three more countries of the union were elected members of the human rights council, bringing their number to nine, a figure which i believe is a record and which obliges us to be very active in the council. respect for human rights is a hallmark of the union and an important principle underpinning our foreign policy. since human rights are indivisible and universal, we must cooperate closely with the united nations and, of course, with the council, which plays an indispensable role in defending them. in the regions surrounding the union, the question of respect for human rights is now very relevant: i am referring to the so-called 'arab spring' and the need for the freedom, dignity of the individual, gender equality, etc. that gave rise to these revolutions to be respected by the governments that have emerged from these changes and elections. respect for human rights, as has been said here today, is one of the issues that is also being discussed, of course, in this conflict, in this war in syria, in which the despotic regime of assad is still clinging to power. as marietje schaake said, humanitarian aid must be able to reach the victims of this violence. human rights are also at the forefront of our eastern neighbourhood. i am thinking, for example, as minister creighton has also said, of belarus. the human rights council has therefore recently appointed a special rapporteur. i have mentioned the two neighbouring regions of the union, but there are many places in the world where we must pay particular attention to respect for human rights. i believe that this is why we must participate very actively this year in the human rights council, an important multilateral body which is responsible for ensuring that universal basic freedoms are respected.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect and has also taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. it ensures that the so-called copenhagen criteria, respect for the rule of law, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary capable of guaranteeing the fundamental rights of europeans are met in each of the member states, not only at the time of accession but also after accession. and that is why it is worrying that in bulgaria a serious attack has taken place on ahmed dogan, leader of the mrf, an opposition political party, while he was holding a rally, in full view of the world. in the same way, in full view of the world, a person linked to organized crime and drug trafficking, zlatomir ivanov, has also been the victim of a criminal attack at the gates of the court of justice. this is telling us that we cannot put these facts into perspective, as has been done from some sphere of government. and so we have an obligation to draw attention to the need to strengthen the judiciary in bulgaria and to scrutinize the integrity of the judiciary, the independence and the quality of each of its members, in particular in the upper echelons, in the constitutional court and in the high council of justice. and so we urge the commission to put forward that interim report on the cooperation and verification mechanism in the area of judicial reform and to ensure that the very important legislative elections that are going to take place in bulgaria in the near future - and this european parliament also has the right to say something about that - fully meet the criteria of transparency and fully comply with the recommendations of the international bodies concerned about the democratic situation and the separation of powers in bulgaria, as evidenced by the reports of the organization for security and cooperation in europe. we all have an obligation to show concern. it is not a bulgarian problem, it is a problem of the bulgarian citizens as european citizens, and therefore it is a problem of all european citizens, and it is a problem for this european parliament. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs morvai, i had the honour of chairing a delegation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, of which you are also a member, in hungary and of reminding everyone, and in particular the hungarian media, that members of the european parliament represent 500 million european citizens, which means a citizenship status that complements and enhances that of citizens of the different member states, and therefore also that of hungarian citizens. and yes, we also represent the hungarian people when we are concerned about the separation of powers, the quality of democracy and the rule of law in each of the member states, including hungary. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. i would like to ask mr lópez aguilar whether he is aware that the bulgarian government immediately condemned the attack on mr dogan, whether he is aware that the minister of the interior immediately appeared at the scene, whether he is aware that the attacker is in custody and whether he is aware that he faces a prison sentence of between five and six years.
the answer is 'blue card'. we are all aware of the sequence of events, but that does not detract from the seriousness of the question at issue. it does not affect the principle that the criteria which qualify states to knock on the door of the european union must be maintained at all times and that when serious events occur which affect the quality of democracy, pluralism, the democratic process and the equal opportunities of each of the political forces competing in an electoral process, and in particular those in opposition, this matter can be brought to the european parliament and debated. it's the case. and i am sure that would be the case if something of the same gravity were to happen in any other member state of the european union.
the question of the 'blue card'. i would like to ask the speaker whether he thinks it is an effective procedure, appropriate from a parliamentary point of view, to accuse others and believe that there is an international campaign to denigrate the bulgarian government. there must be an effort to clarify for the rest of the members who are not bulgarian, to know what has happened, what is happening in bulgaria, and thus to help the commission and the council to clarify the situation. i don't think talking about an internationally orchestrated campaign is going to get us anywhere, do you?
madam president, the bulgarian government has been spoken of negatively here. i'll give objective data from the prime minister. i met him when he was secretary of state for security. i met him when he was mayor of sofia. i met him when he founded the party with which he now governs. and i knew him as prime minister. and i have to inform the house that the kingdom of spain awarded him a medal at the interpol world assembly for his collaboration and commitment to the fight against organised crime. this is an objective fact. it is also an objective and verifiable fact that the osce provided a very positive report after the regional and presidential elections in 2011. and it is a very positive fact that greco (group of states against corruption) warmly congratulated the bulgarian government on its new law and its new electoral code. i now wonder whether a question like the rule of law and freedom in bulgaria would be debated in the united kingdom, in italy, in france or in spain. the answer, of course, is no. what does this indicate? it indicates that while all european citizens are free and equal, not all european countries are free and equal. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. your question gives me the opportunity to develop what i have said earlier. we all agree with the institutional strengthening of bulgaria and of all the states of the european union, without any doubt. the attack on mr dogan is condemned by the whole world, as it cannot be otherwise. but everyone should also question the fact that these questions are being raised in the european parliament four months before the elections. something smells rotten in denmark. this is not reasonable, and this would not apply to any other state of the so-called founding states, or the so-called big states of the european union. so i am calling for the equality to which the treaties oblige us. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i thank you for your question, but i cannot answer it in the terms you have used. however, it gives me the floor and opportunity to say the following. firstly, mr boiko borissov is a member of the political family of the european people's party, and rightly so, as are all the other leaders and parties in our political family. secondly, through my personal experience, not in writing or commentary, i affirm and reiterate mr borissov's commitment - as i have seen it - to the fight against organised crime, not only within his country but also by working internationally in this field. i think we should have infinitely more sympathy with a country that is struggling to get more and better guarantees and reforms in the area of institutional matters to make it absolutely compatible with what we enjoy in the european union.
mr president, despite the wine agreement reached in 2006 with the united states, in which the european union made important concessions in terms of oenological practices, the united states has made no effort to prevent the usurpation of european quality names that are considered generic, including, of course, spanish wines from jerez and malaga. i think it is time for the european commission to take action on this matter, to use the diplomatic means at its disposal to ensure that the united states stops the misuse of such names. in view of a future agreement at the world trade organisation, it would be more than desirable to set up a register of protected names. as regards the possible authorization of the use of traditional european terms such as 'clos' and 'château' by american wines, i would like to know how the european commission intends to ensure that american producers will respect the requirements of the european union, when the us government itself rejects the european policy of protecting these terms, which also includes, by the way, the spanish 'solera' used in sherry wines. the commission seems to be prepared to meet the demands of american producers by reaching a private settlement with trade associations in the united states, which could lead to the widespread use of traditional terms and thus create an unprecedented precedent in the market. the commission is thus doing a disservice to european productions which must meet very strict requirements to be entitled to use traditional terms and is also wasting an important and very interesting opportunity to negotiate a global solution on terms in the framework of a future free trade agreement with that country. that's not the way, commissioner. to stand up for what we are, to bet on quality and to protect our producers and our products, that is the way.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − in favour. recent projections anticipate that immigration could slow down the process of population ageing. these projections are based on the assumption that several eu member states will loosen their immigration restrictions in order to prevent major imbalances in the old-age dependency ratio. without migration, the eu population will decline from 495 million to 416 million people by 2060 while the old-age dependency ratio will increase from 25 to 62%. with migration, the population could grow to 506 million people while the old-age dependency ratio will ‘just’ increase to 53%. more or less simultaneous with the above-mentioned significant population changes, the european union is currently experiencing a spatial transition: it is indeed becoming highly urbanised, rapidly so. in the 1970s, 60% of the population lived in urban areas, while today already 80% of the population is urbanised. an additional increase of 5% is expected by 2030.
in writing. the 16th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) will take place in bangkok from 3 to 14 march. cites regulates international trade in species, i.e. the export, re-export and import of live and dead animals, plants and derivatives. it has a twofold benefit: it protects endangered species while increasing european protection against invasive species. illegal trade in animals and plants is a serious threat to many species. despite increased monitoring and surveillance, it continues to persist. in this connection, the european parliament resolution, which i supported, considers that the eu should intensify its efforts to prevent the poaching of elephants and rhinos, and should also aim to include several species of sharks in the list of animals whose trade should be controlled and raise awareness of poaching of polar bears. in addition, the text addresses a number of concerns about the transparency of the decision-making process or the financing of the objectives of cites, hence my vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. the european union should play a leading role in the protection of endangered species, by taking an active part in negotiations on the cites convention and promoting the removal of loopholes that aggravate the situation. i thus deplore the fact that there have been allegations about member states and european union citizens being used as intermediaries in the transfer of rhino horn into vietnam or other countries where it has high commercial value and thereby stimulating demand and further poaching.
in writing. - i was unable to vote in favour of the guidelines for the 2014 budget - other than the commission - because i am seriously concerned about the current limitations on members' ability to speak in our respective languages, both in official meetings and when tabled amendments. in addition, the delay in obtaining access to parliamentary working documents translated into certain languages means that the official languages are being placed in a hierarchical order which violates the principle of multilingualism and degrades democratic rights when we carry out our parliamentary activities. moreover, the cuts in the budget for translation and interpretation mean job losses in the sector and a degradation of the services and working conditions of professionals, so i would like to reiterate our defence of the principle of stable recruitment and to express my disagreement with the reduction of the amounts allocated to translation and interpretation.
in writing. - as regards amendment no 17, i agree with the single seat, as i have said on several occasions through my own initiatives, but i am voting against it because there are already various initiatives under way in this respect; and we must await their conclusions.
i agree, mr president, that the european authorities must be more active in promoting corporate social responsibility, with a stronger and clearer legal framework. we also need a transnational level to achieve meaning and effectiveness. i also believe that this way of doing business must be a sign of european identity and a commercial asset in an environment where the installation of values such as those we need in economic activity requires the involvement of entrepreneurs, workers, consumers and public authorities. and i speak on a global level because sometimes the first bad behaviour is by european companies in other parts of the world. but, likewise, i think that the extension of this way of being and doing has two keys that i would like to see reflected. the first is that it is essential to think small in order to involve and complement global action. once again, the initiative close to businesses and individuals calls for a role, guarantees that commitment and augurs us success. the second is that social economics carries in its dna a way of doing things that by definition fits into this concept. i therefore believe that the social economy needs and deserves further regulatory recognition at european level and can play a leading role in social responsibility throughout the productive fabric.
in writing. − in favour. our group succeeded in convincing the epp rapporteur to explicitly call on the commission to propose a legislative proposal on the transparency of the social and environmental information provided by companies. our sources reassured us that the commission has actually already drafted a proposal for a directive, which should be presented right after the plenary vote. the legal affairs committee will claim primary responsibility for the directive.
in writing. − corporate social responsibility (csr) is a concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders in a voluntary basis, and can bring benefits both for enterprises and society. we must take greater account of social and environmental considerations, and the lowest price may no longer be used as an award criterion. although some progress has been made, some companies have not yet integrated csr behaviour within their core strategies. therefore, i support this report which aims to encourage companies to become more involved in csr.
in writing. - while the report expresses concern about the precariousness of the world of work, the violation of trade union rights, the increase in human rights violations and the destruction of the environment, concerns which i share, i could not vote in favour of the report, since it does not propose any binding measures for companies to fulfil their social responsibility. the socialist rapporteur, mr howitt, supports the commission's proposal in its communication 'a new eu strategy 2011-2014 on corporate social responsibility' and considers that it is more appropriate to promote voluntary cooperation between companies, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and international institutions than to apply rules which require companies to apply codes of conduct on social, labour and environmental matters which exist as principles but are not usually translated into practice. i have therefore not been able to support this short report, as i believe that the current approach to corporate social responsibility is insufficient and that binding measures should be promoted as well as public investment programmes and a higher taxation of capital.
in writing. − abstention. the report is the newest element of a constantly weakening yearly exercise of the employment committee writing a report on corporate social responsibility. the result of an s&d rapporteur negotiating only with his epp (and alde) counterparts is a weak, almost empty report based on a cheap deal of big political groups agreeing on not mentioning the words mandatory, control mechanism, binding, regulation or anything similar in the text (in exchange for not mentioning voluntary either). on the other hand, it contains an indirect reference to extraterritorial jurisdiction in the most extreme cases of human or labour rights violation. our amendments on binding csr provisions or reference to a potential regulation have been rejected.
in writing. − in favour. vat fraud costs the eu and national budgets several billion euro every year. in some serious cases, vast sums are lost within a very short timeframe, due to the speed at which fraud schemes evolve nowadays. for example, between june 2008 and december 2009, an estimated eur 5 billion was lost as a result of vat fraud in greenhouse gas emission allowances.
against. the economic and social crisis still threatens thousands of employees and deteriorates living and working conditions, while social inequalities become more oppressive. the most vulnerable populations continue to be the first victims of environmental degradation. we must learn from the past and use the tools of european coordination to finally move in the right direction: that of a europe that protects jobs, strengthens social rights and tackles environmental challenges! an endless policy of economic austerity created the general impoverishment of the populations, the evaporation of the investments necessary for the ecological transition, and killed any hope of returning to prosperity. the obsession with reducing public deficits, without taking into account the social breakdown it causes, is blindness as well as a mistake.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution, despite the fact that the amendments i supported were rejected, because the content adopted contains interesting provisions. i voted against amendment no 19 because, although i share the need for structural and long-term changes in the economy towards sustainability, the language of the amendment seems to me excessively programmatic and radical.
in writing. − in favour. some of the recommendations included are crucial. for instance: implement fiscal consolidation programmes, in order to guarantee the sustainability of public finances, in a proportionate and differentiated growth-friendly way allowing for investments to achieve the eu2020 strategy and making full use of the flexibility that the stability and growth pact provides for. revise its fiscal multipliers to avoid systematic underestimation of the effect of fiscal consolidation on growth and job creation in a recessionary context; revise the rhythm of consolidation in order to differentiate across countries according to their fiscal space to avoid potential negative growth and employment effects, whilst guaranteeing debt sustainability; ensure coherence between the different priorities in its policy guidance, so fiscal consolidation does not compromise sustainable growth and job creation potential, increase poverty and social exclusion, or prevent the provision of public services of quality. and finally, attain full coherence between budgetary consolidation and proposed economic reform measures on the one hand and poverty reduction and increasing employment rates on the other.
in writing. − in favour. in the face of an already dense acquis of single market provisions, the proper implementation and enforcement of these rules becomes ever more important in order to effectively contribute to economic recovery. yet, statistics on the transposition deficit of member states with regard to single market rules as well as the rising number of infringement procedures raise serious concerns and clearly show that we are still not fully reaping the potential benefits of a completed single market.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of the resolution on the mandate of the european parliament to the 22nd session of the united nations human rights council, as i consider that it leaves out three very important issues relating to foreign policy and the very reality of the european union: the human rights situation in the territories of western sahara occupied by morocco, the situation in the turkish-occupied part of the northern island of cyprus and the cia's programme of secret flights and prisons. the european parliament must denounce before the united nations the turkish occupation of 37% of cyprus and the unacceptable policy of colonization which undermines the turkish cypriot integrity. i have tabled an amendment to include a condemnation of the kingdom of morocco for the systematic violation of human rights in western sahara and to call for the release of all sahrawi political prisoners, taking particular account of the urgency of the situation of the group of 24 prisoners from gdeim izik who are being tried these days by a military tribunal of the occupying force in rabat. this amendment has been adopted, and i am very pleased about that.
in writing. − in favour. specially important, for me, is the fact that the amendment expressing concern about human rights violations in sahara had been adopted. as well as the fact that it condemns in the strongest terms the increasing and indiscriminate violence used by the assad regime against the syrian population, including the use of heavy artillery and shelling against populated areas, summary executions and enforced disappearances; condemns unequivocally the continued systematic human rights violations by the regime, which may amount to crimes against humanity.
in writing. − in favour. the professional development of lawyers should emphasise the need for common standards of professional ethics, for the judiciary to be independent and impartial and for an approach to european regulation that is respectful of diversity, since it is only in this way that true mutual confidence can be achieved.
in writing. − in favour. the role of the eib is becoming crucial for the future of the eu in order to further the objectives of the european union, such as growth and employment. the european union has already taken severe measures to increase the discipline and the surveillance of the national debts and the national budgets. at the same time the rapporteur considers that the european project, but first of all the european citizens, need some measures improving a strong and steady economic growth. europe needs to take active actions in order to increase inclusive growth and opportunities, to reinforce its innovation capacity and knowledge based industry, to expand infrastructure investment and networks and to strengthen social, welfare and environmental policies. europe needs high profile job opportunities, increased employment rate and better productivity. if we do not take any actions, europe will have to face an increased competitiveness from our trading partners.
author. − mr president, on 15 december 2012 sombath somphone became the victim of an enforced disappearance, according to automatic camera footage, just after being stopped by police officers in thadeua checkpoint in the sisattanak district of vientiane. sombath somphone is widely appreciated and well known for his extensive work in the fields of sustainable and fair development and access to land. as part of the lao national organising committee, he was one of the partners in the organisation in vientiane of the ninth asia-europe people’s forum. during this forum farmers invited by him brought to the attention of participants the situation of lao farmers being deprived of their land for the building of mega-projects, some of them cofinanced by international financial institutions, some of them european. many of us are deeply concerned about the whereabouts and safety of sombath somphone. the length and the lack of transparency of the investigation is also a major problem. thus we urge the lao authorities to inform sombath somphone’s family about the progress of the investigations and call on the government to ensure that all steps are being taken to locate, rescue and return him safely to his family as soon as possible. i appeal to the government of laos and the other asean member states to underline publicly the legality and the legitimacy of the work for sustainable development and social justice in order to counter intimidation efforts and the forced disappearances of activists. finally, laos must ratify the international convention for the protection of all persons from enforced disappearance.
mr president, we often hear the crisis referred to as the sex of angels, trivializing something as serious as gender perspectives and equality policies. it is difficult to assign a gender to a crisis, and yet the crisis has a gender, both in its causes and in its consequences. as much as there are those who insist on denying reality, the economic, financial and political institutions that caused the crisis are, even today, masculinized entities. but the most worrying thing is about who is suffering, and here again there is one certainty: women. just the women? no, of course not, but mostly women. unemployment, the precariousness of the labour market and the cuts, especially in social policies, impose a triple burden on women as workers and as the majority users of these policies. talking about women and crisis requires going to the root of this ideological war, to the structural causes of it. the worst cynicism is therefore that of those who, by paternalistically lamenting the suffering of so many people, mostly women, try to make us believe that the 'austerity' they so much advocate and practice so well has nothing to do with it.
mr president, the treaty of rome spoke for the first time of equality. fifty-six years later, 60 percent of the images still link women to housework and childcare. they have worse jobs, they are paid less, and they face increasing levels of violence. incorporating women's talent is an opportunity for crisis and overcoming stereotypes. but change, mrs reding, will come when men become aware of the damage that inequality does to their health, to the economy, to innovation, to politics and to their emotional relationships. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to work along these lines if, as you have said, you want to achieve a real cultural change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. i would therefore like to begin by stressing the importance of the step we are taking and encourage the member states to speed up the implementation of the mechanisms provided for in this regulation, especially in areas such as the single window or the limitation of the duration of the authorization procedure. the only objection is that we need to coordinate more closely the development of infrastructure of common interest between member states in order to put an end once and for all to the bottlenecks which are the basis for the survival of the energy islands to which the commissioner referred. there is therefore still a task to be done, and we shall devote our efforts to it from tomorrow. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i think that this is a difficult time, a time when we have to negotiate very hard and when this house has to assert to the council that everything concerning heading 1 cannot be cut; we cannot, in principle, accept the cuts proposed by the council. i would therefore say to mr rübig that all the groups in this house must work together to ensure that these programmes really get the funding that europe deserves and needs.
mr president, connecting europe would be a solution to the major problems which make it difficult to implement an energy policy for the european union. there are major bottlenecks which make it impossible to establish an energy model for europe and therefore an industrial policy for europe, for growth and employment. we would now like to propose that we try to solve this model which hinders the passage from one place to another. it would be much more effective to establish credit elements through investment bonds as a way of modernising infrastructure and trying to ensure that the energy system is sustainable across europe.
mr president, working with the year 2050 as a horizon shows the planning imagination and confidence in the future of this parliament. in this respect, the work carried out by our colleague is commendable. now, we have targets today that we cannot adequately treat. this is the case for aid for renewable energy or fossil fuels, which are subject to fluctuations that hinder investment and create confusion among firms. on the other hand, it is urgent to make citizens aware of the need to save energy, and in this sense the wasteful examples we see in the lighting of many cities, in the unjustified lighting of sports or musical shows late at night, in the fashion of drinking in the street in the european winter or in the multiplication of superfluous messages through the networks are unacceptable. if we don't control today, we're hardly going to make ourselves credible for tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, this roadmap certainly raises substantial changes. it points out that a decarbonisation of our energy system is not only possible but necessary for the sustainability of the european economy. and, in addition to positioning the european union at the forefront of clean energy, it is a vital step towards achieving our climate change objectives. as has been pointed out, the transformation of the market would not only create new jobs but also reduce the price of energy for consumers and our dependence on the outside world. however, as mrs van brempt very well pointed out, there are certain parts of the report which should be analysed in greater detail. the european parliament should make clear its commitment to the objectives of combating climate change and, to this end, set binding targets in the report. we should also urge the commission to define the most desirable scenario for achieving the objectives of sustainability, energy security and competitiveness, which are so necessary for the development of a common energy policy.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. after the terrible chain of events, with the earthquakes, the tsunami and the floods, which not only caused thousands of deaths and billions of dollars in damage to cities, communities and infrastructure, but also had a catastrophic effect on the nuclear power stations, we very quickly launched the european stress test: a stress test which should not be a light stress test, i.e. not be used from the outset to confirm that everything is fine in europe, but which, on the contrary, should not trigger an automatic shutdown, but which should be, if possible, a sober assessment of the technical safety of our 135 nuclear power stations in the european union. this stress test is carried out in three stages: first by the owners and users of nuclear power stations, then by the national regulators who are responsible for this by law, and then with peer reviews at european level, with for the first time a fellow austrian in germany, a german in france, a frenchman in the czech republic being part of a team to check the safety technology in the nuclear power stations of the european union. ukraine, armenia, switzerland and russia were closely involved, which means that we have also achieved some things for the security review outside the european union. one person's stress test wasn't severe enough, the other's was far too severe. i'm sure i didn't make any new friends in paris, london and prague, quite the opposite! the results are in and we will take further action on that basis. firstly, we have agreed with the national regulators that national action plans are to be drawn up. what do the member states, what do the regulators, what do the governments want to do next on the basis of the findings of the stress tests in the member states? the action plans are available, are being evaluated by us and will lead to the necessary retrofitting measures. we expect an average of up to 200 million euros more sensible and necessary investment per nuclear power plant. this will cost all nuclear power stations in europe between eur 15 and 25 billion but it will be a sensible, well-managed cost . we have been asked by the european council to continue the nuclear safety directive, not in 2014, but now, and we are happy to do so. i shall go to the commission in april and then, at the end of april, i shall present to the public how we intend to reform the nuclear safety directive, what new material conditions we intend to insert into it, what findings from the stress test we believe are appropriate for european safety legislation. i hope that this is still in time to examine this commission proposal in parliament before the european elections and the campaign before them, that is, if possible in the second half of the year, to obtain your support and then to obtain a majority in favour in the council. let's not kid ourselves. the council's willingness to accept a continuation of the nuclear safety directive is very muted. many member states do not really want europe to set safety standards, they see this yes or no to nuclear power as a full competence of their government, parliament, regulator and not the european level. i believe, however, that in other areas of life - transport, food regulations - we are right to have european standards which serve the citizen, and that nuclear energy also needs a european safety framework and strict material requirements at european level. you asked, madam president, how we feel about compulsory insurance. we will be proposing binding rules during the year on how to ensure protection for victims, how to make insurance compulsory for potential victims. we are thus taking as a starting point the very different systems which exist at national level and are seeking to develop a european framework on the basis of what has been achieved in the member states. we have some more exciting questions to answer. i'll give you an example: the colleague in charge is joaquín almunia. we shall be able to discuss the exciting question of whether our european competition law and our european state aid law allow for certain price guarantees for new nuclear power stations. i am not dealing with this subject purely on my own initiative, but there are very specific proposals for a new market design. market design is going to be the buzzword of 2013, i promise you that! the british government, for whom i have great respect, wishes to make the following request. the commission is proposing to introduce a price guarantee for both gas and nuclear power stations that it is selling, so that anyone who invests in a new nuclear power station in the uk will be guaranteed a feed-in tariff for up to 30 years. if the market price were below this tariff, the difference to the guaranteed price would be financed from the english state budget. the proposal from mr cameron. i'm not very open about it. but i expect similar proposals from the czech republic, from france, perhaps also from poland. it is true that at present, following the experience in finland with cost increases of 3 billion euros, nobody invests in a nuclear power plant without collateral. the rest of the agenda; we have an opportunity to discuss these energy issues with the european council on 22 may. in conclusion, i believe that the stress test has provided us with information on the safety of european nuclear power stations that we did not have before. on this basis, we hope that the revision of the nuclear safety directive will be successfully completed in the second half of this year with you and the council.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. from the outset, its voluntary nature and lack of independence were a cause for concern to my group. once these have been achieved, we can celebrate that all the european power stations have passed the tests. however, not all the work is done. all plants require upgrades, which must be carried out without delay. i would also point out that not all types of installations or all possible threats have been assessed. so despite the positive results, we must not forget that nuclear energy can still carry risks. that is why we must continue to work towards establishing a european supervisory framework that ensures maximum security. i understand your concerns, commissioner, but i would urge the commission to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, on a day like today nine years ago, spain woke up in tears to the cruel sight of the victims of the madrid train bombing. anyone could have been on those trains, because terrorism kills some to terrorize all. 192 were killed and 2,000 wounded, and in their name i ask for truth, memory, dignity and justice. none of us thinks that we can be a victim of terrorism; neither did my brother and his wife or so many innocent children when they were killed by eta. that is why today, on the european day of the victims of terrorism, we must raise our voices to denounce the intolerable propaganda of eta, which, by internationalising the conflict, wants to make people believe that those who kill behind their backs should be rewarded for stopping. they walk around our institutions talking about human rights: they don't fool me; and if you knew their crimes, you wouldn't fool them either. i ask the european court of human rights to listen to the desperate voices of the victims when it comes to its decision on the parot doctrine. judges can't turn their backs on people who have lost everything and have nothing but faith in justice. you can't allow terrorists to celebrate while their victims mourn.
mr president, the explosion of the housing bubble in spain has led to the loss of thousands of jobs and has thrown off balance the balance sheets of financial institutions which invest a large part of their capital in construction. as a result of their negligent activity, many mortgage users are being evicted, losing their homes and incurring significant debts to banks. the stop evictions stop evacuations platform and the platform of affected by the mortgage are trying to stop this drama. a drama that was presented in the spanish congress of deputies, through a popular legislative initiative with almost one and a half million signatures, to make effective the donation in payment, the delivery of the property being the way to cancel the debt with the bank. it is also the duty of the european institutions to speak out against the situation of families without income, of families with a social situation at risk, of elderly people, of families with children who are becoming homeless.
mr president, the defence of diversity is one of the founding values of our union. the authorities of the navarre foral community despise it. they are pursuing a policy against the basque language and culture that has been repeatedly dismissed by the european institutions. the treatment of the basque-language media is particularly bloody. this is the case of euskalerria irratia. an arbitrary decision has left them, for the third time in twenty years, without a broadcasting licence. decades of defending and promoting the basque language are punished by violating european directives and by attacking freedom and free competition among the media. in navarre, the basque language is the scapegoat they use to prevent political debate, deny the plural identity of that territory and even hide some cases of corruption such as those that are sadly current in that territory. commissioner, pay attention to navarre.
mr president, the crisis in financial institutions affects the citizens of europe in every way. in spain there is a bank, bankia antigua caja de ahorros de valencia, castellón y alicante, which was trusted by the valencians, which has sold toxic products. he's deceived his customers. a solution has been proposed, with a 40% write-off and a very large devaluation of its shares. at the moment there are rumours that the european commission is working with the spanish government to get customers to accept this settlement and not go to court. part of bankia sold the risky shares by deception. citizens trusted them with their savings and their lives, and now they trust them with their compensation. the commission has a responsibility not only to collect interest from the bailed-out states but also on the actions that the bailed-out banks take with their customers. so we ask for justice and we ask for transparency. we ask that bankia respond to the commission.
mr president, i want to denounce here today and to inform the commission, the commissioner, of the unsustainable situation of the fisheries sector in my region, cantabria. i would like to denounce here today the untenable situation of hundreds of families in my region, cantabria, in northern spain, who depend on a single fishery: the verdel. we have had a very low quota, 18 000 tonnes, a minimum quota. practically all the quota has been fished in six days - practically in six days! meanwhile, in the faroe islands, in iceland, hundreds of thousands of tons of cod are caught from the same fishery. we need to make further studies of the cantabrian sea so that we can catch more fish, so that the cod fishery really has a future. we are now leading hundreds of families who depend exclusively on one fishery to a dead end, and who, in practically eight or ten days a year, exhaust their quota. so i ask you, please, to negotiate. and i would also ask the spanish government not to issue orders that create false expectations among fishermen by making them believe that they can end fishing on 29 march and not, as in fact has been the case, a few days ago.
madam president, commissioner, we are well aware that these two proposals we are debating today are a fundamental step towards the acquisition of goods and services, especially if they are purchased abroad and online, and towards greater consumer protection and safety. however, the adoption of these measures will be of no avail if they are not transposed into national legislation quickly; if, moreover, knowledge and use of them and the provision of the necessary information to consumers and traders are not promoted; and if disparities in the coverage and quality of alternative dispute resolution systems are not eliminated. i therefore call on the governmental authorities to implement this legislation successfully, in order to ensure that the principle of independence is respected and, in addition, that alternative dispute resolution is fully accessible on the european platform. finally, i would like to draw attention to the importance of providing vulnerable consumers with access at the lowest possible cost.
mr president, we support this debate, which is based on the council and commission statement, because it is very necessary. the 21st of march is a day of grief that we must never forget; the memory and recognition of the victims is a very good therapy to prevent horrendous crimes. we have just received the nobel peace prize after a long and distinguished career, and it is a well-deserved award, but we still have many weaknesses. there is still a lot of discrimination in the union, and it is regrettable. our code is human rights, law and tolerance; our threats, any kind of discrimination - ethnicity, hate crimes, racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, homophobia - and above all our indifference and lack of commitment. what's our defense? the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat these crimes and crimes, to provide education and training in the values of the union, to protect and provide protection for the victims, and to ensure that the guilty are punished in an effective and speedy manner. these crimes may, sometimes, not be defined or typified, but they are suffered, suffered and felt. that is why, mr president, they must also be prosecuted in the field of international humanitarian law and the criminal code.
mr president, commissioner, this parliament has a duty to be involved in this declaration by the commission and the council, because crimes motivated by racism, xenophobia or prejudice or intolerance against those who are considered to be more vulnerable or different are the expression or tip of the iceberg of a much more complex phenomenon that is sweeping europe: hate speech, which is transforming what started as a financial, economic and social crisis into a political crisis that affects the fundamental values of the european construction. intolerance is sweeping europe and is manifested not only through extremist parties but also through the prejudice and stigmatisation which are increasingly prevalent in governing parties in the member states of the european union. we know the causes: fear, the exploitation of anxiety and the loss of a homogeneous culture in the european union, but also a fierce struggle for social protection and economic values. therefore, it is necessary to respond not only politically but with european legislation, reforming the 2008 framework decision and, taking into account the values of the european convention on human rights and the eu charter of fundamental rights, to legislate to strengthen the protection of the victim and to establish a new criminal framework, with criminal rules and sanctions that combat not only the politics of hate but also hate speech.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because, despite proposing some environmental improvements in the area of energy transport, it maintains a transeuropean approach to the distribution of energy resources and not a decentralisation of energy production. the report supports the integration of decentralised renewable energy sources while proposing the construction of oil pipelines for the terrestrial transport of oil to energy producing areas. the report stresses the importance of the transeuropean energy network projects complying with the different environmental regulations of the union, but despite these positive points, it calls for greater powers for the commission for the implementation of the common cross-border market dominated by large companies in the sector. that is why i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. − against. from a green perspective it would have been imperative to see ccs pipeline projects not financed from eu money. our argument that the technology is in pilot project phase rather than in concrete pipeline construction phase was not taken on board. it would also have been imperative to see a better inclusion of stakeholders, notably by requesting two stakeholder conferences at different stages of the project for adequate public participation. finally it would have been imperative to ensure recognition of the distribution level electricity infrastructure, including smart grids and further references to energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
in writing. − this proposal belongs to the connecting europe facility package. identifying the trans-european priority corridors, covering electricity and gas networks as well as carbon dioxide infrastructure are key issues in meeting the eu energy policy objectives. this will also contribute to meeting the target agreed in the conclusions of the march 2002 barcelona european council for member states to have a level of electricity interconnections equivalent to at least 10 % of their installed production capacity, which has not yet been achieved. in particular, the north-south electricity interconnections in western europe (‘nsi west electricity’), which means interconnections between member states in the region and with the mediterranean area including the iberian peninsula, will help to integrate electricity from renewable energy sources and reinforce grid infrastructures to foster market integration in the region. for all the reasons above, i fully support this proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a clear conflict of interest situation which is detrimental to the citizens of vienna. the extension of vienna airport has been a violation of the environmental impact assessment directive, which has been reported by many inhabitants of the city to the european ombudsman. the environmental impact assessment (eia) of this extension was carried out by the federal ministry of transport, innovation and technology, the same institution that approved the project, constituting a clear case of conflict of interest that completely nullifies the validity of this study. the situation was reported to the commission in 2006, which decided not to pursue an infringement procedure because the works were close to completion. but the termination of the project does not annul the invalidity of the eia carried out under a clear conflict of interest. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the report’s approach has not been strictly legalistic, but it has also gone more to the core issue of the political willingness of all the actors involved in eu law enforcement. in front of the ongoing discussion between the ombudsman and the commission on whether it would have been legally possible for the commission to impose stricter conditions on these two fields on the austrian authorities in view of the tailor-made – not provided for in eu law – ex-post eia, we went beyond by stressing the need that no possible circumvention of these two (and other) aspects should be possible under the revised directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to improve coordination between member states in accounting for carbon sequestration from different land uses. the report seeks to adapt the agreements reached on 'land use, land use change and forestry' (lulucf sector) at the un climate change summits in a coherent way by the member states of the union. the report recognises the need to take account of the positive balance of carbon sequestration and sustainable use of forests. the report also addresses important issues such as citizen participation in the development, modification and review of national lulucf action plans and consideration of the use of agricultural subsidies to encourage the adoption of carbon sequestration measures by the primary sector. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the first reading agreement mainly confirms and introduces into eu legislation internationally agreed accounting rules, including their weaknesses. it does make accounting for forest management accounting mandatory (80 % of the sector’s emissions), and introduces a staged approach to cropland and grazing-land management (about 17 % of the sector). the decision maintains voluntary accounting for revegetation and wetland drainage and rewetting. there is an obligation for member states to provide information on ‘lulucf actions’ within 18 months without any target setting or regular review.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a step forward in achieving the objectives imposed on climate change adaptation and mitigation. the report introduces specifications on the control of greenhouse gas emissions through the european earth monitoring programme (gmes) and also includes the need to account for emissions from the shipping sector. the report is positive in introducing new obligations in the monitoring of member states' low-carbon development strategies, such as the review of these strategies at least every five years. it is a report in favour of greater and stricter control of member states' greenhouse gas emissions and therefore a tool to improve the ability to set concrete targets for emission reductions. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. regarding the outcome, the regulation introduces an obligation for member states to prepare low carbon development plans, in line with a cost-effective pathway to 2050 target of 80-95% reductions compared to 1990 levels, giving due consideration to intermediary stages. regarding maritime emissions, parliament agreed to a commission statement whereby the commission undertakes to adopt a new initiative on monitoring, reporting and verification of shipping emissions during the first half of 2013. on reporting: regarding international climate finance, after arduous negotiations, parliament maintained annual reporting on climate finance provided by the member states for adaptation, mitigation and technology transfer, and where possible, regarding whether such finance is new and additional.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains legislative amendments aimed at improving consumer rights, it includes aspects such as the deepening of the single market in the interests of competitiveness. the report delves into aspects and problems that have recently emerged with the massive spread of shopping and commercial activities via the internet. it contains points of interest to facilitate the resolution of contractual disputes in this type of trade, as well as the development of platforms to facilitate access to information by consumers, specification of the impact of this legislation on digital commercial transactions within the member states, etc. all these aspects are intended to improve consumer guarantees via the internet, but i find it impossible to share the interests of the expansion of the single market and of competitiveness in the same way that the destruction of the production systems of less competitive countries is justified. that is why i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. − in favour. in essence, the directive aims to address the three most significant and persistent barriers hindering consumers and traders from accessing a well-functioning alternative dispute resolution entity. firstly, adr coverage continues to be patchy at both the sectoral and geographical level. secondly, many consumers and traders are simply unaware of, or have insufficient information on, the advantages of using alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. finally, even where adr systems exist, they vary greatly in quality and often do not meet the quality principles laid down by the commission’s recommendations.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new political tool for moving towards the completion of the single market. the report seeks to unify the system of alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes as a means of implementing the single market and allowing access to similar rules for all purchases in the european union. the single market, the backbone of this union, has been used to destroy countless jobs in a large number of countries across the continent, and any further expansion of the single market can only deepen the destruction of national production systems. this single market can only allow the survival of large companies to the detriment of small ones. that is why i voted against this report, rejecting the union's single market policy altogether.
in writing. − in favour. articles 1 and 2 outline the scope and subject matter of the directive. here, an effort has been made to ensure that the aim of complete coverage for consumer disputes is achieved, while offering consumers a high-quality, transparent, effective and fair redress mechanism. both existing and newly-established dispute resolution mechanisms that comply with the minimum quality standards established by this directive will be called ‘adr entities’ and will subsequently be provided with a european quality label that will boost consumers’ confidence and trust. the possibility of traders submitting disputes against consumers has been excluded, as traders already have sufficient means to resolve these claims without being included in the scope of adr.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it provides new elements for the development of association agreements which are not merely economic agreements. among the new elements mentioned are cooperation in strengthening civil society and its responsibility in all areas, the inclusion of the overseas countries and territories (octs) in the european union's horizontal and environmental programmes, the inclusion of the objective of improving labour and trade union rights, and the recognition of public investment as the only way to improve living conditions in both the octs and europe, etc. in short, the report allows the development of economic, social and cultural rights through the implementation of these association agreements with the octs. these are agreements based on international solidarity between peoples and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in favour. as my colleague, mr bicep, has already said, in the tense context of the 2014-2020 budget negotiations, the process of revising this association decision must not be affected by national frictions. today the european parliament has shown its progressive face by welcoming the commission's proposal and going further, in particular by focusing on sustainable management of natural resources, the promotion of renewable energy, investment in employment and a relentless fight against tax havens. the absolute priority of this new association must be the ecological transition, in the name of a social and solidarity-based economy for territories which often suffer from a high economic dependence on their neighbouring states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to ban all radioactive substances from water intended for human consumption. the report amends the previous directive on prohibited radioactive substances. it is a report designed to fill a gap in the legislation. the substances which were not included were radon gas and tritium gas. these substances were not present in the legislation and the commission put forward a proposal to parliament in which missing points have been supplemented, such as the establishment of minimum acceptable doses for adult population rather than for critical population such as children or the elderly. the report includes detailed regulation and offers full protection for european citizens against such substances. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the rivasi report provides for greater prevention measures to prevent our waters from being contaminated with radioactive particles. the first step to achieve this is to change the legal basis of this report in the treaties. the second step, a very important advance, is to establish more stringent controls on the parameters of the studies on radioactivity in water. the aim must therefore be to protect the population by constant monitoring, by means of studies and repeated supervision of the dangers of water contaminated with radioactive substances. however, the european commission needs to go further and force member states to fully implement the water for human consumption directive and also extend preventive measures. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. radioactive contamination of drinking water can occur due to human activities (accidental releases of radioactivity or improper disposal practices) or naturally. so far, radioactive contamination of drinking water has not been adequately monitored or remedied. the quality of drinking water is currently regulated under the council’s drinking water directive 98/83/ec (dwd), including the monitoring of radionuclides. however, the dwd requirements for monitoring the frequency of the radioactive substance tritium and the total indicative dose (effective dose for one year of ingestion resulting from all radionuclides detected in drinking water) are still not implemented (even though member states have had to comply with the dwd since the end of 2013).
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a further step in the economic sacrifice of the member states in the name of austerity. this report covers the implementation of the two-pack to develop the tools for monitoring the national budgets of the member states. the report is based on the principle that austerity policy should be imposed on all countries, but with special emphasis on those countries which are experiencing budgetary difficulties. the report aims to extend the monitoring and control of government deficits to countries outside the euro area and argues that the countries involved should take account of the commission's recommendations. the report therefore turns the tables on the loss of sovereignty by the states to the financial sector. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i abstained from voting. the most relevant aspect of this report to me - and indeed the one that has prevented me from voting against it - is the introduction of the need for public debt audits in those countries which are subject to macroeconomic programmes. in the case of spain, however, i think that its delicate situation must also be taken into account.
in writing. − both documents in the two-pack proposal represent a step forward for monetary union. in particular, this regulation leaves the commission the possibility of enhanced surveillance of a member state experiencing serious financing difficulties. on the other hand, for the countries receiving certain types of precautionary financial assistance, this surveillance will be automatically applied and a list of precautionary assistance instruments will be established. these measures will contribute to prevent some of the ongoing situations in the eu zone; therefore i fully support the agreement.
madam president, the basque country, the nation i am here representing, is almost a state for tax purposes. we have our own treasury and we answer for our public accounts and our deficit. in the last 30 years, after the franco dictatorship, we recovered our estates. we have made a tremendous effort to put economic policies in place which have given rise to a development model which is totally different from the one which has failed in spain. we've boosted the productive tissue. in euskadi, neither construction nor speculation is the basis of our growth. european tests say that our financial system is sound and solvent. we agree with the principle of financial supervision, but if the luxembourg court of justice believes that our economic concert is an autonomous treasury, we want direct european supervision of our accounts. and we want tax harmonization, so that we are not penalized for applying the same tax measures that some member states adopt without reproach. the effort of our citizens to prosper, to do so seriously and by fighting with work the scourge that was for years the intolerable violence of eta deserves this consideration.
in writing. - i voted against this report because austerity has proved to be no way out of the economic crisis europe is going through. putting the reduction of sovereign debt at the centre of member states' economic policy can only hold back the economic growth potential of countries in budgetary difficulties. this report implements the measures adopted in recent years on the control of the member states' budgets. the report argues that austerity in public accounts leads directly to economic growth when the reality in many member states is proving, day after day, just the opposite. to introduce a legislative amendment which goes against the reality that is intended to be legislated can only be called madness. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against it. it was a good opportunity to at least allow the governments of some countries to implement countercyclical policies. they haven't. in addition, governments and the commission have greatly watered down the possibility of mutualising the debt.
in writing. − both documents in the two-pack proposal represent a step forward for monetary union. among other measures, this report promotes monitoring of the common budgetary rules by independent institutions. although euro-area member states have to submit their draft budgetary plan for the following year, they will remain fully sovereign in voting on their budgets. an opinion will be given by the commission, with the possibility of being penalised with a 0.3 % gdp fine if the member state does not follow the indications or does not comply with the objectives. therefore, this regulation complements the preventive arm of the stability and growth pack, by ensuring that eu policy recommendations are integrated appropriately into national budgetary preparations and increasing peer pressure in the euro area. for all the reasons above, i fully support the agreement.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it promotes legislation which seeks to use the same financial mechanisms which have led us into the current crisis. the report's rules are completely inadequate in their attempt to encourage the small and mediumsized enterprise sector and the technological entrepreneurs by creating a new sector for financial speculation. the proposed regulation contains some problematic definitions that could tie funds that tax in tax havens. the report is a great pledge to entrepreneurs and small businesses in europe, but it is conditional on the expansion needs of a financial sector which needs more people in debt. instead of betting on a public banking system that promotes a new production model, any chance of economic change is left in the hands of the financial sector, the very one that got us into this crisis. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. among other aspects, the resolution states that while european venture capital funds can play an important role in furthering the access of smes to finance, and even though safeguards are included to ascertain that funds are properly used, there is a risk that european venture capital funds could be used for unintended purposes. thus, supervisory authorities should be vigilant in this regard and a review should be undertaken to ensure that any such potential loopholes are closed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. my country will never get out of the crisis without supporting policies that promote growth and job creation, and for that it is necessary to attract investment and to bet firmly on entrepreneurship. cantabria, my region, is the third autonomous community in spain with the lowest number of entrepreneurs, namely less than 12 per 10 000 inhabitants; this figure is one of many that explain the fact that there are almost 60 000 unemployed in the region. neither spain nor cantabria will ever be able to put an end to this social drama if we do not stimulate the real economy, set the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy as a goal and support smes and the industrial sector so that they are the real engine of the economy. the report calls for transparency, but we must not forget that it must be strictly observed in the appointment of managers of venture capital funds and the valuation of their assets.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a regulation designed to give financial funds this status, regardless of the dimension of social enterprise. the report seeks to regulate in favour of social enterprises by making such investments attractive by creating such funds, but as with other reforms it is simply a matter of creating a new market for the financial sector. investment in this type of company is conditioned by the argument that its objective is not to generate profit but to generate a social impact, but this condition already occurred in savings banks, which in spain have been one of the main drivers of the financial bubble that, with its explosion, caused the current crisis. i voted against this report because it is a new financial market rather than a genuine support for social enterprise.
in writing. − in favour. while the eusef can play an important role in furthering social entrepreneurship, and even though safeguards are included to ascertain that funds are properly used, there is a risk of eusefs being used for unintended purposes. thus, supervisory authorities should be vigilant in this regard and a review should be undertaken to ensure that any such potential loopholes are closed.
in writing. - the social problems of our societies have been accentuated by the current financial crisis. it is therefore necessary to encourage investments which give priority to the achievement of social objectives in the interests of financial return. in recent years, we have seen the emergence of a social investment market that helps to address the social consequences of the crisis by providing finance for social enterprises. in practice, most smes have social objectives and obtain a large part of their funding through donations or funds from the public sector. their activities depend on stable sources of funding which are adapted to their needs. evidence shows that regulatory requirements at european and national level do not guarantee the raising of social entrepreneurship funds. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to establish a common regulatory framework on the use of the designation of a european social entrepreneurship fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it maintains a critical position on the austerity measures and the consequences for the sex-gender system we find in europe. the report denounces the economic measures imposed by the troika, with their consequent cuts in the health sector, which are causing an increase in the gender gap, by forcing the household unit, rather than the state, to manage the care system. the report develops the problems affecting the economic and social situation of women and, therefore, their position within the social system, addressing their situation appropriately through the economic policy that has been developing since the beginning of the crisis. however, the report falls short in proposing national measures which are doubtful whether the governments involved in the troika will implement. i voted in favour of this report because it provides a good analysis of the economic situation of women and the negative impact of austerity policies.
in writing. - i voted yes. we often hear the crisis referred to as sex of angels: trivializing something as serious as gender perspective and equality policies. it's hard to assign a gender to the crisis. and yet the crisis has gender, both in its causes and in its consequences. as much as there are those who insist on denying reality, the economic, financial and political institutions that caused the crisis are, even today, masculinized entities. but the most worrying thing is about who's suffering it. and here again, there is one certainty: women. just the women? no, of course, but mostly women. unemployment, the precariousness of the labour market and the cuts, especially in social policies, impose a triple burden on women, both as workers and as the majority users of these policies. talking about women and crisis requires going to the root of this ideological war, to the structural causes of it. the worst of cynicism is therefore that of those who, by paternalistically lamenting the suffering of so many people, mostly women, try to make us believe that the 'austerity' they so much advocate and practice so well has nothing to do with it.
in writing. − the consequences of the economic and financial crisis facing the european union are being particularly severe for the most vulnerable people and women. many women have suffered salary cuts or job loss or precariousness due to the crisis. the right to work is an essential condition for economic independence, professional fulfilment and effective equal rights for women. equality between men and women is one of the fundamental objectives of the european union. however, the gender perspective has not been sufficiently taken into account in the participation of women in the decision-making process in the political, economic and financial spheres. it is therefore essential to invest in active labour market policies and to combat undeclared work, to adopt measures to facilitate the 'return to work' of women who have lost their jobs or interrupted their careers to give birth, while encouraging teleworking and the provision of childcare and other dependent care services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that gender stereotypes imposed through education are a fundamental part of the submissive socialization of women. as a fundamental part of the sex-gender system, the socialization of women is a process in which it is a question of imposing a passive, incomplete social role, linked to the domestic and never to the public, etc. this whole process is done through the entire social system, from childhood on, roles are marked using strongly sexualized toys that are imposed through a very aggressive advertising system with children. it is of fundamental importance to oblige the member states to act in this area and to set up advertising observatories, to monitor the participation of women in all layers of society and to try to overcome occupational gender differentiations. i consider this report to be a very appropriate initiative to deal with this issue at european level and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the world conference on women in 1995 had as one of its main demands the removal of obstacles to the active participation of women in all spheres of public and private life through full and equal participation in economic, social, cultural and political life. it is enough to mark international women's day and the data show how much this issue and many others are still valid and therefore i supported the report on 'eliminating gender stereotypes in the eu'. mandatory quotas are needed to increase the number of women in legislative and business leadership positions . it is also necessary to support the creation of a fund to promote equal measures for women's equality and, above all, to combat violence against women. the work/life balance remains a major problem for many women in the eu. the labour market participation rate for mothers is 12% lower than for women without children, while the rate for fathers is 8.7% higher than for men without children. it is also essential to reduce the wage gap. it is therefore imperative that the european parliament should approve any measure which can contribute, such as this report, to achieving real equality for women.
in writing. - science is thought to be a neutral field, yet it suffers from the same biases as other areas of society. as the she figures 2012 shows, the percentage of women who graduate is 45%, yet only 33% pursue a scientific career. it seems clear that women are not reaching the positions they deserve according to their abilities, merits and training. the reasons are numerous, some linked to the practices of the research centres, and others to the persistence of gender stereotypes. the latter act at several levels: 1) stereotypes still embedded in the education systems of our member states that affect the image of science and discourage our young people from pursuing a scientific career, and 2) the harmful use of gender stereotypes coupled with stereotypes of scientific culture in assessing excellence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important amendment to facilitate the participation of the various european actors in the field of the union's environmental policies. the report mainly proposes legislative changes to simplify procedures and administrative burdens in order to make european environmental regulations effective. i consider this to be a fundamental issue in order to make it possible for european citizens to have access to the use and implementation of this body of law, which is one of the most comprehensive in the world. this report is intended to help those in the member states to make use of this right, which often faces countless administrative barriers to its implementation. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the adopted envi report practically overwrites the draft report by oreste rossi (efd, it), turning a plea for subsidiarity and regionalisation into a welcoming of the commission communication. the report notes that much of the unnecessary administrative costs linked to environmental legislation are due to inadequate or inefficient public and private administrative practices in various member states and in their regional or local authorities. it emphasises the importance of timely and correct implementation (transposition) of eu law by the member states and regional and local authorities, also with a view to ensuring a level playing field. the report regrets that the procedure for a directive on public access to justice in environmental matters has been halted at first reading and calls on the co-legislators to reconsider their positions with a view to breaking the deadlock. it also notes the frequent concerns of petitioners in several areas of environmental policy, such as landfill and waste disposal, wildlife habitats and air and water quality, and applauds their efforts to bring authority to account. underlining the crucial importance of effective inspections, the report urges the member states to step up their inspection capacities, calls for common minimum criteria for inspections and urges the commission to set up an environmental law inspection unit.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to apologize for the delay. the flight from brussels was delayed by over four hours. i'm happy to be with you. i would first like to thank you for your involvement since the beginning of the process of reform of the common agricultural policy. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteurs, mr capoulas santos, mr dantin, mr la via, and all the fictitious rapporteurs who have been involved in the proposals for regulations under discussion today. this step of determining your negotiating mandate is crucial to be able to actively enter the second phase of negotiation of an agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission. this is not the end of the road, it is only the beginning of the political negotiation phase towards an agreement on a reformed, ambitious and pragmatic common agricultural policy which i hope we will be able to reach together by next june. there are still some points which will have to be clarified between us, the commission, parliament and the council, at the trilogues which i hope will follow very soon. however, i think we agree on the basic principles, which allows us to look forward to the next phase of the negotiations between the three institutions under good conditions. the issue of fairness and distribution of support to farmers will be one of the key topics of the final discussion phase. many of you have already been very active in supporting the capping of direct aid or the rebalancing of support between member states. the notions of active farmers, degressivity of aid and internal convergence of aid to farmers are essential to better target public expenditure. that is why i support the idea of an absolute minimum objective of internal convergence, as has been done for external convergence. aid convergence must not remain a concept but must become a tangible reality by 2019, with concrete ambition. this development must be accompanied by a complementary tool to meet agricultural realities and societal expectations. i'll give you three examples. the establishment of young farmers is a european challenge and therefore requires a european approach and not a national option. the commission has proposed a compulsory measure for all member states on this issue, since we need a european approach and not an optional one at the choice of the member states. small and medium-sized farms are part of our food model and economic fabric. a simplified scheme for very small farms is important, both for the administrative simplification for the benefit of the beneficiaries and the administrations, but also for clear support for this category of farms. i am also in favour of the idea of a premium for the first hectares, which is also going in the same direction. we must also provide the means to maintain agriculture throughout our territories in the less-favoured areas. of course, all this must be done in the context of the most impeccable management possible in terms of the quality of public expenditure. in recent months we have worked together a great deal on these issues. i particularly support the idea of a rapid suspension of reimbursements to member states when serious management and control problems are detected and not dealt with properly. greening is a means of enhancing the production of public goods. it also reflects the economic dimension of soil fertility and biodiversity. it is also a tool to combat climate change. this development of the common agricultural policy is therefore necessary both for the proper management of natural resources and for farmers and their economic competitiveness in the medium and long term, since this competitiveness is also linked to soil fertility and water quality. we must not give in to the temptation of so-called greenwashing or approximate measures which would have a questionable effect, would be very complex and would result in unacceptable error rates, also in the quality control of public expenditure. however, i agree with the principle of equivalence between certain agri-environmental practices and the three proposed greening measures under three conditions: if the alternative measures are equally effective and more relevant locally, if the system remains simple to apply and simple to control and if all farmers or, in any case, all agricultural areas in the european union are involved. in order to use taxpayers' money effectively, it seems to me important that greening measures should be the basis for the second pillar agri-environmental measures and that 7% of the ecological focus areas should also act as stabilizers of agricultural ecosystems, which is synonymous with productivity and long-term competitiveness. i would add that, in order to affect all farmers, greening must include a credible system of penalties that goes beyond the 30% loss. this is the system of penalties applied to all other measures financed under the first pillar. in parallel, the position of agriculture in the economy and the territories must also be strengthened, first of all at the structural level. we have proposed measures to encourage producer organisations, inter-branch organisations and the short-term marketing system to improve the competitiveness of the sectors and the added value for farmers. in this respect, moreover, the competition rules need to be clarified. we know that not everything is possible or desirable in this area, but i would like to mention one particular issue on which we will have to continue to work, namely: what measures must be taken to ensure that the peak of the crisis is managed more and more effectively, or even avoided, in the common interest of limiting the negative economic impact on the agricultural sector and making better use of the public budget? in addition, we must keep a reserve for adverse economic situations. private storage and public intervention measures must be supplemented by the crisis reserve and emergency measures. in a crisis we must be more reactive in the immediate and not debate the most relevant legal basis, as is too often the case today in crisis situations. that is why we need reactive measures, so that we can react quickly. it is also appropriate to make available to member states and farmers, under the second pillar, an income stabilisation tool. the end of sugar quotas also fits into this context. the sugar quotas we have at present do not meet the current economic challenges. the same applies to the wine sector. the high level group on plantation rights has outlined the future paths around a concept of authorization of plantation rights. we therefore remain within a framework of monitoring what is happening in this sector, but we also need to move towards a system more adapted to the current situation. the aim is to pave the way for a new distribution of roles between public authorities and private actors in the management of markets, without going back to administrative management, but by adopting flexible, efficient and pragmatic market regulation, in line with the reality of today's markets. finally, i would like to return to the question of the transparency of financial support provided through the common agricultural policy. this transparency is the basis of trust for taxpayers. we must inform the citizens about the use of community money if we want the common agricultural policy to be a genuine, strong and sustainable partnership between europe, the european taxpayer and agriculture. i thank you for the work already done. i shall be attentive to the discussions we will have today, with the aim of moving in a balanced way in three directions: supporting competitive agricultural production, sustainable agricultural production and agricultural production for the employment and development of our territories. i very much hope that the debate we have today will lead to a vote on a negotiating mandate for parliament so that we can start negotiations between the council, parliament and the commission as soon as possible, stressing once again that what you will vote on tomorrow is only the beginning of the negotiating process. we will probably have the opportunity to continue the dialogue by june, i hope, just as i hope to obtain a political agreement on this reform.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not only a good thing for the environment but also a good thing for the environment. the proposal made by the european commission did not take into account the diversity of european agriculture or the need to establish flexible instruments to adapt to the different realities that exist in the european union. i think that the committee on agriculture has done a good job, with commitments which were fundamental, such as the flexibility of greening. it is essential that our producers can comply with these measures; there is no greater danger to the environment than an abandoned rural environment. coupled payments are also important to ensure support for sectors in crisis. it is necessary to delimit the number of hectares for cases such as spain, where we have a problem with this reform that is being proposed. it is essential to maintain sugar quotas until 2020 and vine planting rights until 2030, to reintroduce the milk quota, to strengthen producer organisations and to be able to harmonise competition rules. we have in our hands the future of farming and livestock farming in the european union. let us remember that this is a mandate, that there is a long way to go to negotiate with the council and that we are playing with the future of millions of people living in our rural environment. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and the contribution of all those who have made it possible in the committee on agriculture.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with one of the hallmarks of europe, one of the basic pillars of the european construction. it is therefore regrettable that the whole common agricultural policy should come to the house in such an open way. we have only to look at the number of amendments we are going to have to vote on tomorrow to conclude that the terms of this reform should have been reviewed by the committee responsible. i understand that mature matters should be brought to the plenary, if necessary with a few fringes, but not with all or almost all the material completely raw. from my position as a non-attached member, i would have liked the political groups to have reached more consistent agreements. what a shame. it is a pity that this will weigh on the relevance of the whole reform, and a pity that parliament has missed this first opportunity, this first opportunity, to make a structural reform.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs and the alternate rapporteurs on the intensive work they have done and on the agreements reached in the committee on agriculture. for my country, spain, the initial proposals of the college of commissioners penalized the most competitive sectors and those professionals, such as farmers, who have to bear the most production costs. my colleagues from southern europe and i have been very keen to explain the serious problems of implementation of the community's proposal in mediterranean sectors such as olive oil and landless livestock farming, and i am pleased to say that we have been heard. i shall now be following very closely the discussions in the tripartite dialogue on a subject which has not yet been discussed: the future of the wine sector. we have not had the opportunity in the committee on agriculture to discuss the ideas which have begun to emerge from the european commission to replace the present system of vine planting rights. this sector is currently one of the few in the process of growth; it would be unfortunate if, at a time like the present, we decided to destroy a production management system which is bearing fruit. parliament must advocate the maintenance, beyond 2018, of an effective vineyard management system such as the present one, otherwise we would be throwing away the efforts made in recent years by european producers to improve the quality of their wines and to penetrate new markets in third countries.
mr president, mr commissioner, the commitments of the committee on agriculture have taken account of many of the demands of the spanish agricultural sector, and that is a matter of satisfaction, as is the fact that the initial proposal of the european commission, which was certainly negative, has been softened. but that is not enough: we need - and i am asking for it at the moment - the support of the house for the amendment we have tabled which allows the area eligible for aid to be limited. if this does not happen, the eligible area in spain could increase by 90% from 22 to 38 million hectares, leading to traumatic adjustments in key sectors. we are also committed to maintaining the milk quota system until 2020 on a smooth path towards liberalization and, of course, we strongly support the cultivation of tobacco, which is very important for regions such as extremadura or the canary islands. and speaking of the canary islands, i cannot help but remind the commissioner, whose sensibilities i am aware of, that the commitment to the outermost regions must be a permanent commitment, as are their circumstances, and that any change in their status must always be decided by consensus and moderation.
we are faced with a historic opportunity to adopt an ambitious cap that supports agricultural and livestock activities. agriculture, in addition to producing food, has a social, environmental and territorial function. in galicia we have 70,000 hectares of permanent pasture linked to the land-based production system. this reform must maintain the public intervention systems and, in the event of the end of quotas, achieve a milk fund to compensate the sector if they finally disappear. we want to adopt a fair cap that pays for the work and guarantees the production costs of farmers. we want to approve the best possible redistribution of direct aid from the cap, which cannot be separated from agricultural activity and must be directed at all farmers in the sector, with the amount linked to employment, the territory and the value of income. this parliament must support a fair, green and local cap linked to the territory. the countryside needs a future opportunity.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to start by congratulating mrs jensen on the work she has done. as has already been explained here, we are faced with special circumstances, because we have not started negotiating the financial framework and therefore do not know what figures to base ourselves on. the difference between some proposals and others may be more than 10 000 million euros, hence the uncertainty that mr riquet mentioned. but despite this uncertainty, we have certainties that we wanted to highlight in this report. in line with the position already expressed in this parliament, we consider it essential that the european budget should not be cut, because that would be against the pact for growth and employment. in this sense, the priorities of the budget for the coming year must be economic growth, competitiveness, promotion of employment and, in particular, the fight against youth unemployment. the europe 2020 strategy is still a valid strategy, but it will fail if it does not have sufficient funding, and it will fail if the member states, as a result of the crisis, cannot implement the programmes financed by the structural funds, because regional policy is designed as a policy of solidarity with the most disadvantaged regions, and these are the ones who are suffering the most from the crisis. we therefore ask the institutions to find solutions to this problem, because if the member states and the regions cannot use these funds, regional policy will not be achieving its objectives. i would like to conclude by making a few comments on the situation regarding payments, a subject which should never have been discussed in budgetary discussions, because when you commit yourself to financing a programme, you have to pay for it. that seems logical, but there is no such logic in the council, because we end up not with some unfinished business, but with a deficit of 17 000 million euros, and this is legally and above all politically unacceptable. we fix it now or we'll have to shut down programs, and there will be students worried about their scholarships, and regions and municipalities that won't see their debts paid. the paradox is that the countries most affected by these defaults are precisely those which are subject to an excessive deficit procedure, partly caused by us, because if we do not pay, they are the ones who have to pay these bills. i'm finished: three big challenges. one, boosting investment, growth and jobs. two, to solve the problems of the structural funds. and three, to end this deficit that we have been dragging on for the last few years.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe is still in recession. this is the reality today, and it does not seem that the picture will change any time soon or spontaneously, not least because we are living in times of uncertainty - as many colleagues have pointed out - of uncertainty and mistrust, in a context of, moreover, fiscal and financial crisis: it must be remembered that twenty of the twenty-seven member states do not meet the deficit criteria. today we are discussing the guidelines for 2014. mrs jensen, our rapporteur, has worked sensibly and effectively on these guidelines - with which i personally quite agree - and has listed the difficulties and the conditions which the budget for the next financial year must meet. but i would like to convey a positive message: we have not only difficulties, but also opportunities. the union's budget cannot solve all problems, but, with a smart allocation of resources, it can help alleviate the problems of millions of citizens. the scourge of unemployment is the real social cancer we must fight against; without investment there is no growth, and without growth there are no jobs. today, in many countries, the limited resources available for investment are generated from the union budget. it is the main instrument of investment, but also of solidarity; it is our main tool for mobilising the real economy and, although it is modest in its size, in relative terms it is of the utmost importance for most member states.
mr president, i think that the greatest merit of the rapporteurs, mr trzaskowski and mr gualtieri, was not the quality of the report, but that they convinced the committee on constitutional affairs - and i hope tomorrow parliament - that this was the most viable, pragmatic, prudent and therefore realistic solution. their political effort has been more important, let us say, than their technical quality, which is very important. with this report we are addressing a need: to give the seats that are due to croatia. at the same time, we are opening the way to the future, because we point out that the current distribution is unsatisfactory, that it does not fully respect the principles of proportionality - although i agree with the reflections that have been made on proportionality - and that it is asymmetrical with regard to the representation in the council. but ultimately what it does achieve - and that is the most important thing - is that no country feels mistreated by the solution, because no country loses more than one mp. and when there is consensus on that question, the political solution is imposed on technical quality. so congratulations to the rapporteurs.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 13 march, at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european system of national and regional accounts in the european union (com (2010) 0774 c7-0010/2011 2010/0374 (cod)) (a7-0076/2012).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i support the work of the rapporteur, sharon bowles, as well as that of the alternative rapporteurs, particularly that of edward scicluna, whom i am replacing today and whom i congratulate on his election to the national parliament of malta. statistics are essential for the proper functioning of democracy and the economy. they contribute to improving public debate, the conditions under which economic operators operate and economic governance. we need quality statistics, which provide independent, reliable, comparable and timely data, which are obtained by sound methods and transmitted according to a precise timetable. the european system of national and regional accounts was established in 1970 and is now governed by a 1996 regulation. it has been established in line with the system of national accounts developed by the united nations. this initiative adapts the system to the 2009 revision of the international system of national accounts by the united nations statistical commission. the new system should support the strengthening of european governance and the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the amendments seek to provide more complete data while safeguarding confidentiality where appropriate. they stress the need for more methodological work on environmental externalities and social inequalities, as well as on research and development. they also promote regional accounts with a common nomenclature for cohesion policies, the analysis of economic interdependencies and compliance with the budgetary framework directive, address the treatment of contingent liabilities and insist on coordination of pension sustainability. the s&d group therefore welcomes the agreement reached at first reading and expects the commission to develop this regulation and to submit the reports required by it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this report is important because it is one of the few in which the commission has considered the importance of the regional level in the european union. i think that the commission should be more involved in regional statistics, in order to have a clearer picture of what happens in member states. in spain, for example, there is no transparency law. citizens cannot know the territorial distribution of public expenditure by the spanish central government. there is also no territorial information about tax collection, which remains centralised. this lack of transparency of the spanish state is one of the main reasons now fuelling pro-sovereignty feelings in catalonia. this is why i, in particular, welcome the annex to this regulation. the annex reflects that there should be an analysis of the inter-dependence of regions and member states. that is why the liberal group will support this report. we wish to thank the rapporteur, sharon bowles, and all the meps, for their good work.
member of the commission. − mr president, maybe just a few explanations, because ms bowles mentioned contingent liabilities, on which parliament was especially active. we are achieving very good progress on the six pack, covering contingent liabilities. the eurostat task force report on contingent liabilities was presented to the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), which gave the report its strong support. the collection of this data – on public private partnerships, debts of public corporations and government guarantees – will be institutionalised while excessive deficit questionnaires with annual, monthly and quarterly data will be available in 2014. data on pensions will be available in accordance with the provisions of the draft esa regulation – with this being optional for 2012 and compulsory starting from 2015 – on a three-year basis and, finally, the commission is ready to present a report to the econ committee, upon request. it was also said that this is maybe a dull file. i was myself for many years a member of the governing board of the statistical office of slovenia – by the way, my phd was based on social national accounts – and i have probably heard esa 95 mentioned as many times as anybody here. i can only say that no important and substantial decisions are possible without hard statistical work and long methodological discussions, and i have learnt that the esa is a kind of statistical bible. so in moving from esa 95 to esa 2010 we are taking an extremely important decision. we are bringing stability to the statistical system on the one hand but, on the other hand, we are bringing in new elements through new knowledge and, of course, also new times. so it might sound dull, but without toil and hard work there is no attraction, no importance and there are no fair decisions. i wish to thank parliament again and very much look forward, from the commission’s side, to continuing this work together with parliament in the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 13 march, at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs åsa westlund, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the protection of public health against endocrine disruptors (2012/2066 (ini)) (a7-0027/2013).
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the rapporteurs for this splendid report, which is balanced, although it was really difficult to get it. this is a very important report because these are substances which can affect health, and that is the most important thing and deserves the greatest legislative and scientific rigor at the same time. however, i have to say that i do not entirely agree with paragraph 25, because in this paragraph it is stated that it is proven that endocrine disruptors are substances that do not have a threshold. however, and probably after this commitment was made, the conclusions of the commission's expert advisory group, coordinated by the joint research centre, were presented on 19 february. they clearly underline that, according to most scientists, a threshold can be set for most endocrine disruptors. i therefore believe, commissioner, that we in this parliament should not anticipate or prejudge debates taking place at scientific level, nor do i think it right to contradict the conclusions of a scientific committee by a vote in parliament. we should leave the scientists to their work and concentrate on laying down the broad lines for the community framework. and that said, once we have the efsa reports and the joint research centre reports, we must be ruthless and absolutely rigorous with substances that can affect health and the environment. we must have zero tolerance for health issues. if a substance has to be banned altogether, it is banned; if there are thresholds, they have to be corrected and there has to be good risk management appropriate to the protection of human health.
mr president, the report we are discussing today has an important impact both from an economic and a social point of view, since immigration is one of the great challenges facing the european union, and i want to congratulate mrs hirsch, who has done a good job. it is necessary to devise a strategy for community immigration and for extra-community immigration. although it may seem paradoxical at a time when many member states are facing high unemployment, it is expected that in the next ten years there will be a shortage of skilled labour, particularly in the information technology sector. the aim should therefore be to achieve a qualitative immigration oriented towards the needs of the labour market. if we are to be competitive, we must design and coordinate an immigration policy that facilitates the mobility of workers. it is essential to reduce administrative burdens and to unify the validation of qualifications. we must make it easier to find work anywhere in europe. it is not logical, for example, that a young spanish graduate should find it easier to find work in germany than in other member states. immigrants must be integrated and for this they must have decent work and help to learn the language and customs of the host country; their families must also be supported. the question of circular migration must be examined in depth, with good cooperation with the countries of origin. the coordination of social security systems will also facilitate the mobility of workers. the history of our continent has taught us that humanist values, based on respect, equality and justice, are the right way forward. let's not leave this behind and make immigration an opportunity for all.
mr president, the effects of the crisis - as has been said here - are evident throughout society as a whole, but they are affecting the most vulnerable groups, such as the disabled, so that, with the cuts, this group may suffer a second discrimination; that is why the european union, which is the bulwark of human rights, the cradle of human rights, must prevent this from happening. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities has undoubtedly marked a historic milestone in the consolidation of these human rights. it's not the end, it's the beginning of a process. and that is why, in accordance with the convention, we cannot allow a group which is already discriminated against to be doubly discriminated against and to go backwards. we cannot go back one iota and we cannot allow that to happen. it is crucial that all austerity measures taken by member states maintain the level of protection of economic, social and cultural rights achieved and, in particular, that these austerity measures are temporary, proportionate and do not undermine these rights in any way. the united nations said that in times of crisis, efforts must be redoubled to guarantee the human rights of all people without discrimination, and especially of those who are most vulnerable. article 27 of the convention is very clear on the right to work, but before we talk about work we have to talk about inclusive education, that we are all equal and that we can have the same opportunities. i would therefore ask the commissioner and the commission to continue along the path we have taken so that we can ask all the member states that austerity should never lead to cuts for this group.
mr president, much has been said in this house about the economic crisis, but i want to speak about the rule of law and democracy and fundamental rights in the european union, because the crisis that is affecting the founding values of the european union is no less important than that of the euro - it is more important - and because the copenhagen criteria which apply to candidate countries for membership must also apply once they become part of the union. i say this because the fourth amendment to the fundamental law has been adopted in hungary, which disqualifies the constitutional court from restoring content which was declared unconforming to the fundamental law by a december judgment of the constitutional court. and in a democracy you may or may not have a constitutional court, but when you have one, you have to respect it and follow its rulings. the amendment also sets serious conditions for religious pluralism and pluralism in the media and information and re-establishes the mechanism for judicial allocation of cases by the judicial bureau, which had raised the concern of this parliament, without explicit guarantees of respect for due process and the impartial judge predetermined by law. the council of europe, the secretary-general of the council of europe, the venice commission and the president of the european parliament have been ignored. i therefore ask the president of the european parliament to raise this matter with the heads of state and government at the council meeting this weekend. i would remind you that the president of the republic of hungary still has the opportunity to hear the message of the thousands of hungarians who are asking him to guarantee the fulfilment of the commitments of accession and the rule of law. but i would also remind you that the libe committee is working on a report on behalf of this parliament and that it will be carrying this report forward and will be ensuring that the first rule of the european union, which is voluntary subjection to the rule of law, is respected.
mr president, i think it is fair to begin by highlighting the efforts of some member states to ensure the sustainability of their public accounts by undertaking the reforms necessary to achieve those objectives. the hard sacrifices of its citizens, who have had to bear the consequences of the reforms personally and collectively, must also be acknowledged. but i must say that all these efforts and sacrifices have not been in vain, but are bearing fruit. there are countries like my own, ladies and gentlemen, spain, which has made a huge effort to contain the deficit and is pursuing a very ambitious reform agenda. they're settling the sustainability of their public accounts. their access to debt markets has improved significantly. their companies are again financing themselves on the markets and the competitiveness of their economies is increasing, as reflected in the evolution of their external sector. but it is also inexcusable not to hide the fact that the social cost of the crisis is a high price we are paying and that corrective measures must be taken. after deficit reduction, growth and job creation must be the highest priority, above other considerations. youth unemployment is one of the biggest problems facing the european union and must be its top priority. it is vital, ladies and gentlemen, that this european council shows more determination and commitment to growth and employment. ladies and gentlemen, this house will vote today on a resolution which marks the parliament's assessment of the agreement adopted by the council on the multiannual financial framework. this is not a mere whim, but a claim to the powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon. that said, it cannot be denied that the council has exercised its responsibility in view of the crisis situation and the allocation of scarce resources. our group, with its amendments, is trying to rationalize some of the excesses which the resolution should not have made, and i shall refer to them. it is not a question of rejecting the council's proposal outright, but of participating from parliament, negotiating for a better outcome for all, which will give us a common solution in july, accepted by all.
mr president, the resolution we are voting on today opens the final phase of the negotiations to approve the multiannual financial framework, a phase which i am sure will be fruitful for all. the negotiations are not 'against the council' but 'with the council' and we all agree on the common objective of improving the basis and mandate for the negotiations which the european council concluded on 8 february. we're all in the same boat. the union needs stability to build confidence in public and private investors and to remove uncertainties, it also needs citizens to regain confidence in the institutions. we need to put into effect in the next budget programmes to help employment, programmes to improve training and investment programmes in the regions most affected by the economic crisis, and to this end we need to approve the financial framework in the coming months. parliament recognises the harsh conditions of fiscal and financial crisis facing governments and that is why reaching a final agreement is the only possible horizon, because the horizon of 'no agreement' would constitute a failure which we cannot afford.
mr president, i just want to stress the importance of the resolution we are voting on today. the only way for our negotiators to improve an agreement which, although it is the financially irremediable agreement reached in a european council shaken by the financial crisis, certainly contains many points which can still be improved: points which point to an improvement in the implementation of the community budget, to greater flexibility and to the possibility of a new mid-term review of these prospects. to achieve all this, we need the support of this house and we need to be aware and play fairly, that is to say, we need to enter into negotiations now, but we need to know that when we vote on this agreement in june, we will not only have the members who support the resolution, but also those who support it and who will not vote on it later.
mr president, i would point out that the s&d group will not vote on amendment no 2 tabled by the ecr group. we are not going to vote on it because we have decided politically that we are not in favour of a secret vote, but that we want an open and transparent vote before the citizens on the resolution on the multiannual financial framework. but our position does not depend on an amendment which is outside the scope of the content of this resolution. we believe that the content of this resolution should not contain any provision on how to vote. we shall therefore not vote on this amendment, although our group has politically decided to vote in the open, freely, transparently, in front of the citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the interpretation was telling us an amendment number - 387 - and there was another - 434. then i would ask you to allow us to vote on the previous one again. the s&d group of course supports the recognition of producer organisations.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, can i say on behalf of myself, my colleagues sitting here, the commission and the council, that our thoughts and prayers are with vice-president papastamkos and his family this afternoon. since we last discussed egypt many challenges have emerged for the government and for the people. there is clearly a serious political divide in the country between the government and the main opposition – the national salvation front. we have seen demonstrations and violent clashes across the country. we urge calm. we urge restraint. we urge dialogue. the referendum and adoption of the constitution have not led to a great sense of direction, with a low turnout of 33 %. and, as many of you will be aware, the country is facing huge economic challenges with a 12 to 13 % budget deficit. the imf has already identified a usd 14 billion funding gap. this is the issue, more than any other, that is immediate and needs our engagement, notwithstanding – as i have already indicated – the political challenges that are faced by the country. more than ever, europe as a neighbour and a partner has to engage and support egypt’s democratic transition. special representative bernardino leon has spent a month of shuttle diplomacy to cairo to meet with the government, the presidency and the whole political opposition, on my behalf, in order to build confidence and to look for common ground on those political and economic issues. together with other members of the international community we will continue to push for the finalisation of the imf arrangement which will allow the european union to mobilise our macro-financial assistance of eur 500 million. in parallel, we will also have to discuss the means of how best we mobilise our existing financial assistance in a timely fashion, and i would ask for the support of this house and commitment for this undertaking. democracy-building is not an easy process. there are no ‘quick fixes’. the building of deep and sustainable democracy is a long process. it requires hard work, commitment, as well as patience – patience domestically and internationally. the fact that we do have an opposition that is operating and working is in itself part of that democratic achievement. that egypt had peaceful and fair presidential elections is another, and so is the formal invitation to the european union to observe the upcoming parliamentary elections, which as honourable members know were due to start on 22 april. president morsi accepted the administrative court ruling to refer the electoral law to the supreme constitutional court. i believe that was a wise decision. this will likely postpone the elections, which gives more time, of course, to reach agreement on the outstanding issues that still exist. in this very tense political context, elections need to be held in conformity with the constitution and in a peaceful, inclusive and transparent manner. we know that going to the polls to vote is very important, but it is only one component of building deep democracy. another is the importance of working with all sides to build bridges, to promote reconciliation, to respect and safeguard the fundamental human rights of all citizens, whether they are ‘winners’ or ‘losers’ of the election. we see that egyptians are openly debating human rights issues in public, in political circles, in the media, and at the shura council. i welcome that debate. we share many concerns and we want to see real progress in these areas. our special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, was in egypt in mid-february and met with institutional as well as civil society interlocutors. he conveyed the message of particular concerns we have on police abuse, on torture and impunity, freedom of expression and belief, women’s rights, the working conditions for ngos, and the promotion of economic and social rights. we have stressed the importance of ensuring a favourable environment for civil society and encouraged the adoption of a new ngo law that ensures ngo transparency while respecting the independence of civil society from government control, that eliminates burdensome registration procedures, and does not subject ngo activities to prior government approval on the basis of their alleged ‘usefulness to society’, and that does not limit or demonise ngo funding. i am extremely pleased that the egyptian authorities have shown willingness to engage and have requested through our special representative, to whom i pay real tribute for the work he has done on this, eu assistance and expertise on the ngo law. however, the situation of women in egypt is of great concern, in particular in terms of violence and other forms of harassment. we are funding a eur 4 million project – with un women – on women’s empowerment. last weekend, helga schmid, our political director, met with the women with whom we have been engaging over the last two years. we are concerned about the stories that they gave us of the harassment they are facing. we are continuing to support the national council for women, currently in the process of drafting a national strategy for combating violence against women as a basis for a comprehensive law. last week, another important event took place in the relationship between the european union and egypt, which was the resumption of the formal dialogue under the eu-egypt association agreement that had been postponed since the uprising in 2011. following the commitment of president morsi during his visit to brussels in september last year to relaunch the process and following the task force meeting in november, an association committee at senior officials’ level was held in cairo on 28 february. we raised our concerns on human rights, on the need to build a political consensus and the establishment of a better business environment. egypt focused on asset recovery and the eu financial package. i have to say to honourable members that we are all aware of the consequences of an economic collapse, which could be devastating in egypt. we have to approach this problem in a very constructive and timely manner. we recognise that we have to show what we call ‘strategic patience’ with the political developments in that country, but not remain silent on issues of fundamental freedoms and human rights. at the same time we need to move quickly to try and help meet the socio-economic expectations – both the goals of the revolution and the aspirations of the egyptian people. more globally, we of course need to support egypt’s efforts as a regional power, be it in involvement in the league of arab states, its attempts to bring together those who have been engaged in supporting and searching for a political solution in the syria crisis, the brokering of the gaza ceasefire or the continued efforts on palestinian reconciliation. this is a very difficult time for egypt. as i have indicated, there are real challenges that need to be faced. i believe the european union has an incredibly important role to play in that. we are determined to play it, to be a friend and partner, but also to be a critical friend in times such now, which are extremely difficult for the people of egypt.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative and vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having here this afternoon makes it clear that in these transitional processes of the arab spring it is one thing to promote the overthrow of these autocratic regimes and quite another to create conditions for stability and economic and social progress. it is clear that we are witnessing historic events: firstly, the reshaping of the political map of north africa and the middle east; we are awaiting the outcome of the conflict in syria and also the resolution of the nuclear conflict with iran. and, mr president, egypt plays a key role in all three of these situations to which i have just referred, and the picture you have just painted for us, madam high representative, is not a very reassuring one and there are grounds for concern for various reasons. firstly, because of the political polarization that is taking place in society and in the political parties, because there have been riots, there have been episodes of violence and there have even been several death sentences. there has also been a controversy over the amendment of the constitution and also over the approval of the electoral law, which, as you know, has been suspended cautiously by the constitutional court for these elections, which were due to take place on 22 april. and it is clear, as mrs ashton was saying a moment ago, that we are witnessing a very serious deterioration in the economic situation of the country. the international monetary fund loan has not yet been released, the aid promised by the us secretary of state, john kerry, on his last visit to cairo has not been mobilised, and the aid pledged by the high representative on the occasion of the launch of the task force in cairo has not been released. and all these events, which mrs ashton has told us about, have taken place precisely after the successful launch of the task force in cairo. i had the opportunity, with other members of this parliament, mrs ashton, to accompany her, and i think that when things are done well, we should acknowledge it. but in this context i would like to point out that the european union was not invited to accompany the first referendum on the amendment of the constitution; it was not invited to the presidential elections process either and it was not invited to the last referendum, whereby, with the low turnout to which you referred, the constitution was approved in this country. we have been invited to the next general election and, in this respect, mrs ashton, i am concerned that the opposition has decided not to take part in it. i would like to ask you specifically what you are prepared to do so that, as you said a moment ago, these elections are free, fair and transparent. and if not, is it really worthwhile to accompany this exercise knowing that the challenges posed by the egyptian transition are truly decisive for the whole region?
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mrs ashton, my group in this parliament understands that the crisis in egypt the political crisis and the deep economic crisis, with violence has to do with something very simple to understand: that the tahrir revolution set in motion a series of important reforms in search of a secular state, in search of the guarantee of the social and political rights of all the people living in egypt, and president morsi is riding in another direction. it's as simple as that. a revolution which left martyrs in tahrir square and which, however, president morsi is now trying to curb, even with constitutional reforms which go in the opposite direction. that is why i think it is very important to say here, loud and clear, that the tahrir revolution is still unfinished and that my group in parliament is of course determined to continue to support all and every demand for egypt to be a country with a secular constitution, where all religious beliefs are welcome, where the sectarian phenomenon is not a problem, because in the tahrir revolution it was never mentioned. and we certainly hope that the international monetary fund will not do what it is doing in europe too, namely, make aid conditional on adjustments which would be fatal for egypt, for the living conditions of the workers. on the contrary, i believe that we must draw up a strong and powerful economic plan that does not punish wages, just as we do not want wages to be punished in the european union.
mr president, egypt is a key country in the arab world. the success or failure of the processes of change that we know as the arab spring is played out, to a large extent, in egypt. the economic situation is not good, as has already been said. unemployment is rising, as are the state's liquidity problems, and economic reforms are not making progress. negotiations with the international monetary fund to obtain the necessary loan have not been successful. but i think the political situation is even more serious. the processes of transition and democratic change are not simple. they require, as a basic condition, a great deal of dialogue between the political and social forces, and a willingness to reach consensus which will eventually be reflected in major agreements. but all this is lacking in egypt today. the new constitution gained rather fragile political and social support. the political forces are still at odds. the polarization, as has been said, is growing. this is shown by the circumstances of secretary of state kerry's recent visit and the rejection of the legislative elections next april. the european union must be firmly involved in this situation. we must first of all promote and encourage the necessary dialogue between the political forces. we must clearly convey the need to reach agreements and consensus. i am concerned that if we europeans do not get more involved, other actors who defend other political models and who are more ideologically close to the muslim brotherhood will be the ones who have the most influence on the political model of egypt in the future. egypt, your honours, is in our neighborhood. it's a leading country. we must be resolutely involved in the interests of egypt, the success of the arab spring and the future of mediterranean relations. and, mrs ashton, our credibility as a political actor is also at stake.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i think we are all united in our views on what is happening in north korea. this is a brutal regime, a regime which treats its people appallingly. as i have said, there will be a co-sponsorship with japan in the human rights council in geneva to get this committee of investigation into what is happening there set up. any of you who, like me, have studied and read accounts from people who have come out of north korea will be fully aware of the horror and terror that is exerted on the population. combined with that, as i have said, is what is happening in terms of simply not providing the basics for the people of north korea. we continue to give support in terms of food aid through the world food programme. i agree with what has been said about cooperation with china. in fact, i have been discussing north korea with china in my strategic dialogues for some time, trying to persuade china of the importance of enabling the people of north korea to really be able to open up and to actually try to apply the right kind of pressure on them. i believe that exerting their pressure would be of enormous significance. meanwhile, we have to continue with the pressure that we put on them, ensuring that we fulfil our obligations through the security council. we must ensure that north korea is under no illusion about the views that we hold and our desire to see them re-engage with the international community, but to continue the pressure on them until they do so.
i'm sorry, mr. obermayr, but you are right. i was going to give you the floor, but i turned the page and it slipped my mind. if you wish, you have one minute to speak, even if it is after the vice-president has spoken.
we note that for the next point. six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 14 march, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on syria, with particular reference to the humanitarian situation. we have been informed that mrs ashton must leave us at 7 o'clock, and as i believe that you will all be interested to hear the high representative's closing statement, i would ask you to adhere to the time you have. and i would also ask mrs ashton, in her presentation, to try to save a few seconds so that we can finish the debate properly.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, thank you for your understanding. i go to pristina this evening. can i begin by saying i learned with great sadness of the tragic death yesterday of ahmad shihadeh, a policy officer of the eu delegation in syria. he was killed during a rocket attack on the damascus suburb of deraa, where he lived. ahmad died while providing humanitarian help to the community. our thoughts are with his family and friends and his colleagues in the delegation. we know that the situation in syria is appalling, that bashar al-assad should leave power, that the fighting should stop and that the country – according to some reports 70% destroyed – needs to be rebuilt. this situation reflects in part the inability of the international community to find a coherent, united way to respond to the horror that is being perpetrated and to act collectively to protect the people. without a security council mandate or a clear situation on the ground, military action by the international community is not under consideration. i want to be clear too that on the occasions this year when i have put the arms embargo on the agenda of the foreign affairs council – with all options to be discussed – no member state has proposed that it be lifted to arm the opposition. all member states have wanted to make sure that support is available for the people, and for the opposition, in the form of non-lethal equipment and technical assistance. this i reflected in my meeting with general idris a few days ago, when i invited him to let me know urgently what assistance we could supply. so we work in the situation we find ourselves in, with all its constraints. this is a messy and complicated situation on the ground. not everyone involved in the fighting shares our values or our vision for the future of syria. as lakhdar brahimi said when he came at my invitation to the foreign affairs council this week, there is no easy solution; if there were, we would have found it by now. we have to work for a political solution that will lead to a lasting peace. we should support all those who are actively trying to find that solution: mr brahimi and sheikh moaz al-khatib in particular. and we should continue to talk with russia and china especially, but also with all the members of the security council, as well as others across the region and indeed the world, in order to try to find a way through. commissioner kristalina georgieva, who has done a fantastic job as the commissioner for humanitarian aid, has been very clear: from a humanitarian perspective, too, there are no military fixes. humanitarian corridors, buffer zones and other ideas of the same kind are not viable solutions. as commissioner georgieva put it so clearly in a meeting with members of the european parliament – with a map of the conflict in her hands – where are we going to place a corridor or a buffer zone? how would we protect it and the humanitarian workers, in the absence of a security council resolution? our priority must be to help innocent civilians. as commissioner georgieva has explained to all of us, our chances of success greatly depend on our ability to maintain the neutrality of our humanitarian aid. however, i issue a strong appeal to the syrian authorities to allow more international humanitarian relief workers into the country to ensure that aid reaches all affected areas, and i reiterate my plea for all sides to respect international humanitarian law. the brutal violence used by bashar al-assad and his regime – leaving 70 000 dead, a million fleeing from syria and three million people displaced internally – cannot be justified under any circumstances. we are constantly trying to adapt to the situation on the ground. every single financial instrument available to the eu and its member states has been engaged in our joint efforts to assist syrians inside and outside the country, to provide assistance to refugees and their host countries, to support human rights activists in raising their cases, to support students to continue their studies and to help people simply to survive. however, we have to be more effective and innovative, and we have expanded our help to the syrian opposition coalition and its assistance coordination unit as well as the free syrian army. syrians – wherever they are – must not feel abandoned by the international community. we are looking into the best way of channelling our assistance across the lines of fire and taking measures on the ground to reach those who need support, although we must also make sure our support reaches the right people and does not fall into the hands of extremists. so far, we have provided eur 100 million of non-humanitarian support. it is not yet enough, but we are determined to do as much as we possibly can. we are also leading the international donor coordination efforts and are preparing the ground for joint assessment activities for the important work to come once this conflict is over. both inside syria and in neighbouring countries, we are the biggest donor in this crisis. i have already paid tribute, and i do so again, to the work of kristalina georgieva. following the kuwait conference on 30 january, the total of our humanitarian assistance will reach eur 600 million. eur 436 million is already committed: eur 200 million from the eu budget, the rest from member states. i want to thank this house for helping in mobilising the funds from the emergence aid reserve. the last tranche became available in december, but i have to tell honourable members that we know that more is going to be needed. that assistance provides shelter, support, emergency health care, water and sanitation, implemented by the red cross, by un organisations and by the high commissioner for refugees, as well as ngos. we are also mobilising in-kind assistance from eu member states for refugees, using the eu civil protection mechanism – in april of this year for turkey and in september for jordan. it is not easy. we want to reach more people in need. together with our partners, we try to deliver assistance to all areas of syria, including those that are fiercely disputed. yet access is challenging – often impossible – and far too many innocent civilians are beyond the reach of our humanitarian agencies and workers. we have to find all the possible channels for delivering this assistance. we know too that the constant stream of refugees puts an unsustainable burden on the socio-economic and, in some cases, political stability of the neighbours of syria. one illustration: eight per cent of lebanon’s inhabitants are refugees, and in jordan the figure is six per cent. the situation is becoming critical. like you, i have been to visit the camps and have seen the terrible situation there. we cannot rule out that the conflict will drag on. we have to be prepared for a direct impact on the european union too. similarly, we have to prepare our ‘day after’ planning, and that means continuing to ensure that we are able to bring about, even now, a minimum of normalcy, with a governing authority ensuring order wherever possible, and with basic services being supplied. success, of course, depends on the willingness of all members of the international community to rally behind a political solution. we have to keep up the momentum, we have to avoid initiatives starting to disappear, and we have to support efforts to explore willingness on both sides to engage in the first steps of any approach. we know from our recent contacts with mr brahimi, when he came to the foreign affairs council, and from meetings with sheikh al-khatib that they are serious but they are cautious. yet we agree that a political solution is necessary. in this spirit, we will continue to act with the clear intention of showing assad that the eu is mobilising all efforts to oppose what is happening. what is most important is to keep the momentum of al-khatib’s initiative by creating space for dialogue, to work closely with russia, with arab partners, with our contacts in turkey, qatar and saudi arabia – in short, to explore all options of engagement that can lead to some form of political dialogue further down the road. as lakhdar brahimi said to me and our ministers a few days ago, the ‘assad must go’ slogan is not a substitute for a political process, and a process is what we need if we are going to get out of this current impasse.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative and vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to the person who has died in the european commission office in damascus. today, when selfishness is almost seen as a value or, i would say, as the ultimate countervalue, i believe that this parliament and the european union should pay tribute with admiration, recognition and respect to all those who give their lives to defend the values that inspire the european union. believe me, mr president, i am very sorry to be taking part again in a debate on the situation in syria. the high representative has explained the situation well: 70 000 dead, three million internally displaced, one million displaced in neighbouring countries and 70% of the country destroyed; and the international community blocked by the chinese and russian vetoes in the security council. the other day, the alde group invited the commander-in-chief of the syrian opposition forces, who said that if they had the necessary means, they could solve the crisis and the problem in a month. in the meantime, the council of ministers met with the joint special envoy of the united nations and the league of arab states and did not adopt any conclusions. i think, mr president, that there are a number of questions that arise: what would be the terms of that possible political agreement? what about the right and the responsibility to protect? what does "non-lethal equipment and technical assistance" mean, mrs. ashton? we are not going to wait for the united states to pull the chestnuts out of the fire. i really think we're in a very embarrassing, very complicated situation. you have told us that two member states which had spoken of a partial lifting of the embargo have not raised this issue in the council of ministers. mr president, we are indeed in a tragic and regrettable situation, and i think that the biggest mistake that can be made in these circumstances, when human lives are at stake, is precisely the fear of not making a mistake.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course, and i hope that the council will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. but these crimes must not encourage military intervention as was done in afghanistan, iraq or libya. i think we should learn, once and for all, from the consequences of the intervention in afghanistan; we do not know how to get out of afghanistan, which is more talibanised and, behind, there is a cesspool of death. i believe that the only possible solution is the political commitment to a negotiated solution, so that the syrian people agree to seek their self-determination. the news in the press, the extent to which the united states is giving military training to opposition factions, factions which have recently kidnapped 21 peacekeepers in the golan heights, or the israeli bombing of syria, is not encouraging. they go against the wishes of my group. and what my group wants to do is to call the parties to peace. we cannot add any more fuel to this conflict and it is therefore worthwhile to work together to give our full support to the un special envoy so that, once and for all, the parties can stop turning syria into a geostrategic issue and peace can really prevail.
ladies and gentlemen, as i indicated at the beginning of this debate, mrs ashton must leave us at 7 o'clock because she is leaving for pristina. it seems to me that it would be more reasonable to give the floor to the groups now so that they can respond and react, rather than having to go through the turn of individual speakers who cannot then be answered by the vice-president. another possibility would be to give the floor to commissioner füle after that, but i think it would be more appropriate for the vice-president to react to the speeches by the political groups.
i shall not take your objection into consideration and will give the floor to the vice-president, because the debate is ordered by the president.
mr president, on 30 june 2012 a principle of agreement for a transitional government in syria was signed in geneva, an agreement reached by the action group on syria, which included the united states, russia, china, the arab league, the united nations, the european union, turkey, france and the united kingdom, in other words the whole of the international community. what has happened to abandon that principle of agreement, which is the most solid thing we have had in relation to the syrian conflict? i think we must go back to the united nations, we must go back to the diplomatic channel, we must resume the geneva agreement, and i think that the european union, in addition to strengthening the humanitarian aspect - as mrs de keyser has reminded us and as the high representative has confirmed - should already be proposing some new ideas, such as the easing of sanctions in the liberated territories and the launching of aid programmes for the populations of those territories. and i think that proposals to supply the rebels with weapons or to create humanitarian corridors that cannot be managed are neither responsible nor realistic. it is also very paradoxical that those who are proposing here that the rebels should be armed know that their governments in the council do not agree with this measure, and it is a little demagogic to raise it in the european parliament knowing that it is unfeasible. and we should be aware that saudi arabia, the country that executed seven people today, is arming rebel groups, and not necessarily those who are promoting a democratic transition in syria.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much. i have followed this discussion on this moving and important subject. i have also followed it because i have visited the region. only last week i visited lebanon, but i will come back to that. i am also, of course, participating in all the discussions the foreign affairs council is having on syria so i can only confirm what cathy ashton, the high representative, said here a couple of minutes ago on an arms embargo, about which there is really nothing i can add. let me make five other points, not substituting but in addition to what the high representative said. the first point is about our role. with our role, with our assistance, with us being credible because whatever we pledged, we deliver on it: because of us this crisis is manageable. without the european union, we could hardly have described the crisis as being manageable. the second issue: the truth is that a couple of months ago, we began thinking about starting to look at our assistance for the day after, trying to figure out what kind of modern, transformed syria we would like to see. but as there is no light at the end of the tunnel, as there is only a bleak prospect for a political solution as the days and weeks pass, we are now focussing more and more on how to handle what is becoming a regional crisis. it is not only cathy ashton as high representative, it is not only kristalina georgieva, my colleague from the cabinet, and it is not only me: the whole commission and all the member states are trying to do their best because of the scale of the crisis, and i will come back to the scale of this crisis. the next point is about getting the assistance first of all to those in syria. let me make it clear that we are trying to be innovative here. we are now working more closely with the syrian coalition, with the syrian liberation army, with the local authorities. we are trying to map out the needs and the possibilities on the ground. it is not an easy task, because although you might have some areas liberated, others are not and those areas pose a danger. but we are keen, facing this tragedy inside syria, to be as innovative as possible in getting the assistance to those in need. the next point is about assistance outside of syria. countries which are already suffering because of the huge amounts of refugees, like turkey, jordan and lebanon, will have to bear even more responsibility here, but they will not be able to do so without our assistance and support, and here the european union is not one of the biggest, it is the biggest contributor to humanitarian aid. however, we are not only financing the needs of the refugees. what is more and more important – i have just talked about the emerging regional crisis – is that we also support more and more the hosting communities in those countries, which are under greater and greater stress. in lebanon they prepared a plan in january on how to help the refugees, planning or forecasting, estimating that by summer time there were going to be around 300 000 refugees from syria in lebanon. that level was reached a couple of days before i went to lebanon and some of my interlocutors were talking about a possible one million, or one and a half million refugees by the end of this year. without us, proceeding with this integrated assistance, helping the refugees and at the same time the hosting community, lebanon would not be able to withstand the pressure – lebanon as we know it. we are not forgetting the palestinians, nor any other group, and i had a possibility in lebanon to meet some of those who were registered by the unhcr and some of those who have been registered by unrwa, and i have heard a number of personal stories, including the personal stories of palestinians fleeing syria, then being put in one of the camps in lebanon and, after being confronted with the conditions there, fleeing back to syria, being confronted with the even more intensified fighting there, and fleeing again back to lebanon. those are the stories but one really cannot imagine the reality. this is what is driving us to do more than just saying a political solution is needed. we are creating and using whatever the european union is offering us to help alleviate the situation, not only in syria but also the region around.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in mali.
mr president, commissioner, this is not the first time i have spoken here about mali and i would first of all like to reiterate my tribute to france and to the french soldiers who have given their lives in this war. but today i would like to focus on the humanitarian issue. i would remind you that action against hunger has warned of the situation of malnutrition of some 74 000 people in the mbera refugee camp on the border with mauritania, where some 400 people are arriving every day. i think that's a worrying situation that we should take into consideration. and above all, i would also like to refer - as has already been said here - to the human rights situation and the abuses by the malian army. the deputy high commissioner for human rights, kyung-wha kang, has warned of this situation at the united nations, of the abuses against the peuls, the tuaregs and the arab people; she has said exactly: 'those who remain in the country are afraid of being attacked not for what they have done, but for what they are'. i do not want to forget the atrocities committed by the terrorists, but the just must not pay for the sinners in this situation. finally, i would like to say that i believe that the final solution for that country does not pass through a military victory alone, but through a political solution, which must be reconciliation between the different peoples that make up mali.
mr president, it is in your hands and in the hands of the president to change that situation. all my life, since my last name begins with y, i was never seen and never seen. i'm in the back row; i'm making voices and scares; and even the ushers, who have known me for nine years, in which i've held this very seat, there's no way they can identify me. i was the first to ask for the floor - to begin with, it was president miguel ángel martínez - and you have to improve the system, because that way there can be no equality of opportunity. one way is to put the y and the z there, in the front row, and the a here, and so we can change it a little bit. the only thing i was going to say about the situation in mali - because the rest has already been said by my colleagues de keyser and arnaud danjean - is that, in addition to being a humanitarian and stability issue, it is a problem of european security and defence. it is a typical case of risk and threat to our collective security, and it is outrageous that it is only one country, france, that has come forward. my country, spain, the spanish government, looked the other way and did not provide the help, especially in terms of personnel and military, that would have been necessary. but this has not been done by spain alone, but by the whole of the european union, which has - or does not have - a common security and defence policy, which has stood out more for its absence than for its presence. it follows from these words that i wholeheartedly support the intervention of france and that i am strongly critical of the rest of europe's shameful inhibition.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, on behalf of high representative ashton i welcome this balanced report by mr belder, setting out the european parliament’s views on the developing eu-china relationship. it comes at the right time, as the new leaders are about to take office in beijing and determine the future of china over the next five years. china is a key strategic partner for the european union and increasingly a significant player on the world stage. high representative ashton is committed to enhancing the european union’s relationship with china in world affairs. we have ongoing close collaboration on iran, where china is playing a constructive role in the 3+3 talks, and on fighting piracy off the coast of somalia. china has actively contributed to the adoption of sanctions against north korea, alongside the rest of the united nations security council and the international community. mr belder’s report highlights the fact that china’s political and economic involvement in africa has contributed to economic development. there is also increasing political engagement in africa. like the european union, china supports the african union and other african regional organisations. the first ever chinese naval mission outside china’s neighbouring seas was to fight piracy off the coast of somalia, in close collaboration with the atalanta mission. china joined the european union in escorting world food programme shipments to somalia in a spirit of burden sharing. we place particular importance on the security aspects of the european union-china relationship. we will cooperate in this field on matters ranging from crisis management to counter-piracy and from non-proliferation to counter-terrorism. in the last three decades china has achieved significant social progress, with hundreds of millions of people moving out of poverty. these improvements still need to be translated into better promotion and defence of human rights. we remain concerned by the reports on the human rights situation in china. the rules on detention of suspects could certainly be improved if china aligned itself with the international covenant on civil and political rights that it has signed but not yet ratified. during 2012, the european union paid particular attention to the human rights situation in tibet, as the high representative pointed out in this house last june and in a statement on tibetan self-immolations last december. our line is well known and has not changed: we reiterate our call to the parties concerned to resume a meaningful dialogue. the european union intends to continue closely monitoring the overall human rights situation in china, and we will not hesitate to speak our mind publicly. mr president, honourable members, the eu-china relationship is one of the most intense on the economic front, one of the largest in terms of people-to-people exchanges, and our formal eu-china dialogues cover almost all conceivable areas. we need to secure improved market access and a level playing field for european union business, negotiating a substantial eu-china investment agreement to contribute to the creation of growth and jobs on both sides. we must identify common ground between europe 2020 and china’s 12th five year plan, for example on renewable energy, clean vehicles and information technology. with our know-how, we want to contribute to greener cities in china and share our experience on issues like emissions reduction, water security and rural development. and, of course, we will continue to encourage china to abide by international human rights standards and promote the rule of law, for the benefit of its economy, social stability and its respectability abroad. i look forward to listening to the views of the european parliament in the debate to follow.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, our relationship with china is one of respect, consideration and recognition for the enormous economic progress achieved, but also of reasonable criticism. we must, not only in our relations with it, but also with the other brics and other non-european countries, abandon any kind of eurocentric prejudice or residue. we are not living in the time when the great german philosopher hegel thought to say that china's history has shown no development, so we should not worry about it, and that china and india lie outside the course of world history. much more recently, general de gaulle had a visionary thought about another brics member, stating that brazil is a country of the future, and will continue to be so. far from the hegelian perspective, china has already shown itself to be a country of present and future and the euro-chinese relationship is beneficial for both sides and can be an important vector in shaping the new world order, which will have asia-pacific as one of its key components. our relationship is not without difficulties, of course: there are political, commercial and other difficulties, but in the interests of both parties and of their almost two billion inhabitants, we must learn to live together, to cooperate and to move forward. the chinese authorities have repeatedly stated that they want a united, strong and prosperous europe. we're going to be fine. and, furthermore, we wish and hope for a prosperous and united china. it's strong, it already is. we have political obstacles because the respective views are not always the same and sometimes they are opposed. for example, while china defends to the extreme the principle of state sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs, the union promotes the principle of the responsibility to protect, which includes humanitarian intervention. syria, as a stone in the way. in the commercial sector, the lack of balance is particularly noteworthy. while chinese investments benefit from easy penetration of the european market, thanks to our openness and clear rules, european companies often find it difficult to access the chinese market. acting on its own, the most powerful of the european states is a dwarf next to the asian giant. china has lifted more than three hundred million people out of poverty in a few decades. europe and china will be able to set an example for international action and contribute fully - i am sure - to making the 21st century a century of peace, cooperation, prosperity and development.
mr president, the rise of china is one of the most important events of the last two decades: some 400 million chinese people have been lifted out of poverty. we are also witnessing a transfer of political and economic power from the west to the asia-pacific region, and the engine of this process, the essential engine, is the growth of china. the european union's economic and trade relations with china are growing steadily and we must continue to encourage this growth - to our mutual benefit, of course - while seeking a more balanced playing field and greater respect for the rules of international law. but the european union and china are not just economic actors; the union, we want it to be a political actor, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, and china must also be that responsible global political actor, and not just be the 'big factory of the world' so to speak. i understand that china must address its great internal challenges: it must give priority to its stability and economic growth. but today's interdependent world requires that the big players - and china has to be - take responsibility and also address global challenges. the european union and china, for example within the g20, and in the most coordinated way possible, must be active and thus overcome the challenges of the global economy. we also need to respond to global challenges such as climate change, energy security, development aid, the fight against pandemics, organised crime or piracy - china is already helping on this front. and china, as a permanent member of the un security council, has to contribute more actively to solving serious problems - i am thinking of the war in syria, the iranian nuclear threat, afghanistan post 2014. in short, we need a china that is more involved in global governance and problem solving. we, the european union, have a wide range of structured and institutionalised dialogues with china. this close relationship must now be strengthened with the new authorities in beijing, to the mutual benefit and also to promote peace and stability in the world.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has indeed been an interesting debate. i have heard many members referring to the timetable for removing the cvm. interestingly, no one has referred to the timetable for delivering the recommendations put forward by the cvm. it is important that the question of respect for the rule of law in the member states is discussed on a regular basis, and the cvm is a very relevant instrument in this respect. the commission will continue to monitor its progress towards the cvm’s objective as thoroughly as it has done in the past. may i quote something: ‘the cooperation and verification mechanism has been instrumental for progress and ... remains an appropriate tool to assist in reform efforts in order to achieve a record of concrete and lasting results to reach the objectives of the mechanism’. do you think that i quoted the earlier report of the commission? no, i quoted the conclusions of the general affairs council adopted by consensus two days ago, and when i say a consensus of member states, i mean all member states. let me nevertheless look at this in the wider context. the cvm has been a successful instrument for reform in the two member states, but these issues are of course at the heart of our values across the union. as stated by president barroso in his state of the union address in september last year, a reflection should start on providing the commission an instrument to ensure respect for democratic principles within the union as a whole in order to ensure that all member states permanently comply with the founding values of the european union. a wider range of instruments in our toolbox would help us to respond to different circumstances. the commission looks forward to developing such an approach and to further opportunities to exchange views on this with the european parliament.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr luigi berlinguer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, with recommendations to the commission on the statute for a european mutual society (2012/2039 ((ini)) (a7-0018/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission's statement on match-fixing and corruption in sport (2013/2567 ((rsp)).
mr batten, are you ready? i saw you running down the corridor. you are in very good shape!
mr president, commissioner, very strict measures have been taken to combat doping, which has been a cancer in recent years, and now the same must be done with match-fixing, a scourge that affects all levels of sport: athletes, coaches, referees and officials. the report, which was adopted by a large majority in parliament last year, already suggested some measures: to recognise intellectual property rights of organisers of sporting events so that they can oppose betting they do not consider appropriate; to urge member states to criminalise all forms of corruption in sport; to cooperate with third countries in the fight against match-fixing and corruption in sport; to ask europol to work with joint investigation teams and to cooperate with eurojust on corruption in sport; to ask sport governing bodies to link data from the transfer matching system with the data from other anti-corruption systems to establish more effective control. but above all, good governance is essential - it has been found that match-fixing occurs to a large extent when athletes do not receive the remuneration they deserve - and education and the collaboration and involvement of sports associations are also essential to inform their peers of the seriousness of match-fixing. i welcome, madam commissioner, the commission's initiative to adopt a recommendation on good betting practice in 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to introduce the concern for the role of women in the countries which experienced the arab spring. despite being key players in the processes of political change in these countries, their position in the institutions has not been strengthened and has even worsened in some cases. the report proposes numerous avenues of action in the north african countries, from the call for legal development to the effective prosecution of any crime against women, both at the constitutional level and at the level of health policies, etc. the report also calls on the commission to include gender as a horizontal issue in its interventions and to support women in the region as a condition for the financial aid it is providing to the countries of the region. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. since the end of 2010, a wave of protests and demonstrations has swept across north africa and the middle east, changing the face and nature of the region from within. regardless of women’s position in these regions, they actively participated as demonstrators, organisers and leaders in these movements, serving as crucial agents of change alongside their male counterparts. today, they continue to fight for representation in the newly-formed assemblies and governments and for equal rights in their new constitutions. the success of these revolutionary protests, commonly known as the arab spring, has for a number of reasons varied across the different countries. this report focuses on four countries in north africa: egypt, libya, morocco and tunisia. despite the differences between them, they have all been affected by a regime change, elections and a redrafting of their constitution.
in writing. - §22: the quotas should be understood as a transitional measure as long as women's access to certain jobs is not regularised because it is too interventionist and paternalistic with women. the important thing is to take measures to reconcile family and work life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it maintains adequate levels of funding for cooperation agreements between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries and the overseas countries and territories. the european development fund is the main funding instrument for european cooperation and this report includes important aspects that should be taken into account in the funding of projects in these countries. the report highlights the importance of the millennium development goals, the cotonou agreement and other priorities of international solidarity, poverty eradication and the democratic ownership of development in shaping the functioning of the 11th european development fund. the report includes many points of importance for international solidarity with these groups of countries. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the legal basis for the european development fund (hereinafter edf) is the council internal agreement. the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states, of the one part, and the ec and its member states, of the other part, which was signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000 (cotonou agreement)(1), provides the formal basis for eu cooperation with the acp states. the legal bases for the union’s association arrangements with the overseas countries and territories (octs) are part iv of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and the overseas association decision (oad) of 27 november 2001(2) associating the eu (previously the ec) with various octs. the oad proposal (com(2012) 362 final) was adopted by the commission on 16 july 2012 and is now under negotiation in the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it was the only way to reject the european council's proposal. during the negotiations the council has completely excluded parliament from the ability to amend the proposal or to make the slightest comment, so that during the co-decision process only the council's final conclusions have come forward to be ratified. these conclusions are nothing more than an agreement between the heads of state and government which has infringed the powers which parliament has had in this area since the signing of the treaty of lisbon. this infringement of community law is a clear violation of the interests of european citizens. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. as my colleague mr cohn-bendit said this morning, it is now time to conclude the budgetary debate and to answer several key questions: we need fiscal responsibility, debt pooling and smart growth. but what pace can we take to achieve this budgetary discipline without strangling our economies? the european citizens are paying the price. we must therefore slow down this forced march and not accept the council's proposals. it should be noted that this parliament is composed of elected representatives of national political parties; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the general european interest must prevail through the support of a european-wide industrial policy or through the vocational training of young people. finally, the president of the commission, mr barroso, must also assume his responsibilities and defend the general european interest by rejecting the compromise proposed by the council.
in writing. - as regards amendment no 2, the roll-call vote does indeed help transparency, but i have the impression that it is not always a good way of ensuring the independence of the member.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, despite including improvements in statistical systems, it supports their use for monitoring the budgets of the member states. the report proposes changes to the european system of national and regional accounts including what i consider to be a fundamental aspect: the quantification of environmental aspects in the statistical data of the member states and regions. this improvement in the quantification of these environmental aspects may allow for an improvement in the definition of environmental policy objectives in the member states. the report aims to make progress in the harmonisation of the statistical systems of the member states, which will improve the evaluation of the policies implemented. the report does, however, propose improving data on regional deficits in order to better control member states' budgets. that is why i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. − in favour. this regulation sets the rules to be followed for the compilation and the publication of essential macroeconomic data in the eu. in practice, the commission proposal is an extensive revision of the european system of national and regional accounts (european system of accounts - esa), building on the latest revision of the united nations system of national accounts (sna, adopted in 2008), and going into more detail. statistics are at the heart of public debate: independent, reliable, comparable and timely data is necessary for policy makers as well as economic actors and citizens in order to measure, evaluate and monitor economic reality and its developments. every effort should be made to ensure that the revised esa provides eu citizens with the highest quality macro-economic statistics, based on sound methodology and delivered according to a precise timetable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it represents a step forward in the protection of the social and labour rights of european shipping workers. this group of workers needs effective protection of their rights by the state whose flag the vessel flying the employment relationship flies. this special status of the collective, the international movement of the workplace, can allow situations of non-defence of the labour rights of the workers of the vessel. these situations of helplessness can occur, above all, in the area of control and monitoring of labour regulations to be applied due to the movement of the workplace. member states, despite the difficulty of monitoring working conditions on board vessels, are ultimately responsible for the application of their labour regulations. i have voted in favour of this report because of the progress made in these areas.
in writing. i have co-signed on my own behalf 14 amendments re-integrating articles of the ilo maritime labour convention, in order to bring greater coherence to the european parliament's text, with a view to future negotiations as co-legislator on flag state responsibilities for compliance with directive 2009/13/ec. i welcome the fact that these 14 amendments were all adopted in the plenary vote, in order to strengthen the european parliament's negotiating mandate, given that the vote in committee had not allowed this; i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. let us quickly enter into negotiations with the council in order to obtain the text that is most faithful to international agreements and protects workers in the interests of european competitiveness.
in writing. − in favour of the amended proposal, and in favour of referring back the final vote on the legislative proposal to committee empl, in line with article 57 (2) of the rules of procedure. the postponement of the vote on the legislative resolution would allow for negotiations with the council and commission in order to reach a first reading agreement.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because of the uncertainty currently affecting the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, which will lay the foundations for the 2014 budgetary guidelines. the vote on the mfp in parliament postponed the procedure for its approval, since the council's proposal was rejected, which means the automatic increase in the 2013 budgetary thresholds plus an increase due to inflation estimated at 2%. the report proposes a number of points of interest on the need for realistic funds to meet the objectives set and to equip the institutions of the european union with the capacity to meet their policy objectives. however, in this context of uncertainty in the mfp negotiation, any modification of the mfps cannot have a considerable effect. that is why i did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the 2013 budget negotiations have demonstrated once more that the system of financing the eu budget – with national contributions amounting to more than 75 % of eu revenue – is in contradiction with the letter and the spirit of the treaty, and is putting the eu budget in a position of total dependency on national treasuries, which can be particularly detrimental at a time of national budgetary constraints. the structure of union revenue must be reformed to include the introduction of new and genuine own resources, like the financial transaction tax and the new eu vat.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it introduces a distribution of seats in the european parliament which seriously undermines the representation of small countries. the distribution of seats in the european parliament for the next term should include the members for the new member state, croatia. with the decision not to increase the number of members it was decided to allocate these seats by subtracting them from the existing delegations. in the distribution of members of parliament, the representation of the smaller countries of the union has been considerably eroded, while the representation of the larger countries has been maintained. in this way the representation of countries such as portugal, ireland, greece, etc. has been eroded. this reform of the distribution to be implemented will give less say to countries that are suffering from the financial decisions of the european institutions. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − in favour. when the next parliamentary term starts in 2014, the current derogation from article 14(2) of the treaty on european union (teu) will expire and the european parliament will be composed of 751 members (750, plus the president). the current number of seats is 754: 736 for members elected in accordance with the nice treaty, which was in force at the time of the 2009 elections, plus 18 for members appointed under the lisbon treaty through an amendment to article 2 of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, which established a temporary derogation from article 14(2) teu (which specifies that no member state may be allocated more than 96 seats) to allow the maintenance until 2014 of the 99 seats assigned to germany under the nice treaty. when its accession treaty enters into force, croatia will be assigned 12 seats in parliament (it currently has 12 observers) under article 19(1) of the act of accession, which also amends article 2 of protocol no 36, resulting in a temporary increase in the total number of seats to 766. as a result, the total number of seats will need to be reduced by 15 in order to bring it into line with the number laid down by the treaty provisions (751).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it represents a timely rejection of the draft regulation presented by the commission. this project is not compatible with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 110/2008 of the european parliament and of the council, which currently regulates the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications for spirit drinks. the new proposed regulation amends annexes 2 and 3 to the current regulation, which lists the spirit drinks listed in europe. these indications imply the recognition of traditional productions associated with different regions of the continent and change the content in artificial alcohols, as the commission proposal seeks, reduces the quality of these indications and makes the quality of these products decrease. to protect the producers of these spirits i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this decision because it represents a missed opportunity to transform the common agricultural policy into a useful tool for improving the situation of the majority of european farmers and the environmental services they provide. the commission's proposal was a reform to guarantee payments to landholders for the mere fact of owning land, not for cultivating it, with a fixed ceiling of €300,000. despite having proposed numerous amendments to reduce these limits to a third of that amount, and despite the fact that these payments are linked to the fact that it takes place on eligible land, among other things, the amendments have not been adopted; only amendments that made the document even worse have been adopted. this reform of direct payments is supposed to guarantee the incomes of landowners and continue the neglect of small farmers throughout europe. this decision on direct payments has meant the loss of an opportunity to develop a farmers' cap and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − against. meps have today voted for the cap to plough ahead unsustainably, with an outcome that is even worse for the environment than, and just as unfair as, the current model. meps have utterly failed to seize an historic opportunity to overhaul eu agricultural policy and make the cap fit for the 21st century. the fact that this is the first time the ep has had a say on the cap as a co-decider makes today’s outcome even more regrettable. while meps voted in favour of capping direct payments to farmers under the cap, the level set – eur 300 000 – is ridiculous and far too high to make a difference. huge farming businesses which do not need the funding will continue to get big pay-cheques, whilst depriving other areas of the cap from funding, notably for schemes that could be used to promote more sustainable farming.
in writing. - the region i represent, catalonia, does not have a large agricultural area to exploit the economies of scale of agricultural crops. livestock account for 60% of the final agricultural production in catalonia. the cap reform proposal does not take sufficient account of cattle and sheep farming without a territorial basis, as in the case of catalonia. it is necessary to take account of the different agricultural specificities of the different regions of the eu when proposing such a reform. i have therefore called for the possibility of distributing agricultural aid according to the needs of each region, as has been finally agreed. the application of a single tariff does not reflect the diversity of european production. i also welcome the flexibility of the definition of active farmer, the increase in aid to young farmers and the fact that a ceiling of eur 300 000 has been set for the aid each farm receives per year. however, it is necessary to continue to call for regionalised programming in those member states, such as spain, where their regions have regionalised responsibilities in the field of agriculture and rural development.
in writing. - i voted against this decision because it legitimises and maintains the current market structures for the next period of the cap. the channels for marketing agricultural products are the main problem faced by farmers in order to achieve sufficient profit margins to maintain their activity. while they are forced to sell at below cost prices due to excess demand in season, the agri-food processing and distribution sector sells at prices several times higher than the farmer's. this unfair situation in agricultural markets must be firmly regulated, but the amendments put forward in parliament's committee on agriculture have not been accepted and the resulting text does not solve the problems of the agricultural value chain. that is why i voted against.
in writing. − against. despite some positive outcomes in the agri committee, such as the definition of advanced systems and methods of sustainable production, improvement of children’s eating habits through fruit and vegetable and school milk schemes, and precautionary measures improving bee health, the text is pretty bad overall and dominated by the interests of big agro-industrial concerns.
in writing. - my abstention has nothing to do with the content of the rules of procedure. it is more to do with the fact that i had the final voting list, with hundreds of amendments and rollcall votes, at 9 p.m. on the 12th, that is to say, very few hours before the vote if i wanted to do, as is the case, a reflective vote. this is not a serious procedure and shows very little appreciation for the work of the member.
in writing. - i voted against this decision because it represents a failure for the implementation of the future rural development policy of the cap. this is a report that deals with the many aspects of this policy, from environmental aspects to programmes for young farmers, but most of these programmes have been designed to have little or no effect on the european countryside. although there are points which could be of interest to farmers, the simplification of procedures for this type of rural development programme fails. it is committed to the introduction of the private sector in risk prevention funds, leaving it to private business instead of proposing a public agency that assumes the risks of agricultural activity. i have therefore voted against this decision.
in writing. - as regards amendment no 80, i think that although it is a good idea to calculate the average over the preceding five-year period, excluding the highest and lowest values, it does refer to so many ways of quantifying losses that it would be difficult to implement in practice.
in writing. - i voted against this decision because it is an example of the inability of the european institutions to bring agricultural policy closer to the farmer. this report was intended to simplify the procedures and the administrative burden that farmers have to bear in order to access european aid programmes, but this intention announced by the commission has been reduced to a timid reform. the procedures will remain the same and this is an administrative barrier which operates in favour of large farms and agricultural enterprises which, by having legal advice teams, can overcome these administrative barriers. this clear orientation of a cap towards business often leaves farmers outside the programmes which are intended for them, because they cannot supplement the complex procedures. that is why i voted against this decision.
in writing. − against. meps regrettably voted to maintain the damaging export refunds instrument which dumps eu farm products onto fragile markets in developing countries. this was compounded by the failure to provide for measures to monitor the effects of the cap on long-term food production capacity in the least developed countries. proposals adding rules based on the water framework directive, which would improve the environmental performance of agriculture, also fell, although the final vote did reinstate rules on longstanding environmental cross-compliance. this is clearly at odds with what the public wants, and these senseless proposals to use taxpayers’ money to fund an outdated system will not be accepted by the public.
in writing. - my abstention has nothing to do with the content of the rules of procedure. it has more to do with the fact that i have made the final list available for voting at 9 p.m. on the 12th, that is to say a few hours before the vote if i wanted to do, as is the case, a reflective vote. this is not a serious procedure and shows very little appreciation for the work of the member.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it keeps nuclear energy within the energy strategy for 2050. the energy strategy contains very ambitious targets for emissions reduction by 2050, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80%-95% from 1990 levels. such long-term strategies are of no political use but should serve as a guide for future developments in the sector. from this point of view, the targets seem ambitious, but the report argues that nuclear energy should be one of the main sectors responsible for this decline in emissions. the report proposes to replace conventional energy production with nuclear, increasing the risk to the population. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − against. i do not understand at all why is it still possible that a majority of parliament opposes setting a binding target for renewables for 2030, why they oppose adding the word ‘conventional’ before ‘natural gas’ in order to make clear that this is not about shale gas, or, even worse, why they affirm that nuclear power is secure, reliable and affordable. owing to all this, i do not see any reason to support the resolution voted.
in writing. - i am in favour of paragraph 48 because the provisions on unconventional gas are provided for in another paragraph of the resolution. §76 - 2rcv: which must be in line with the scientific finding and the sustainability of the same.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it improves the conditions for safety tests to be carried out on european nuclear power stations. our group has been firmly opposed to the use of this type of energy for years, but this report improves the safety conditions to which the plants currently in operation must respond. the result of these stress tests should be used to force the plants to implement improved safety measures, increasing the cost of production of this type of energy to show the national energy systems the true economic cost of its use. if the safety measures required by the stress test results are implemented, nuclear power plants will be less profitable and less attractive to private investment. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, although i did not propose the closure of any power stations.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because it does not provide sufficient guarantees in the area of stress testing of nuclear power stations in the european union. we need much broader legislation which sets much more restrictive conditions when defining the safety conditions of a nuclear power station. nuclear energy, the source of unfortunate disasters such as the one that occurred in fukushima, must be the subject of a social debate on the energy model we aspire to as a society. in the meantime, we must ensure that the use we make of it is absolutely safe for the citizens. i therefore reject this resolution, which is insufficient to achieve the objective of the european legislators: to ensure that the stress tests carried out on eu nuclear power stations are strict and complete.
in writing. for almost two years to the day after the fukushima disaster, as more and more evaluations and disquieting findings are being made about the state of europe's ageing nuclear fleet, the european parliamentarians, conservatives and socialists, are continuing their policy of the ostrich on nuclear risk. instead of learning from chernobyl and fukushima, they prefer to blind themselves to the danger that prevails. the reason, even for those who defend nuclear technology, should be a very high safety requirement. but no! as if saving a nuclear industry which is on the verge of industrial and financial bankruptcy had to be done at the expense of the safety of european citizens. the majority of the european parliament therefore chose to reject the proposal supported by the environmentalists to set up an expertise independent of the industrialists and to take account of the reality of the risks facing the reactors. go around, there's nothing to see!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it represents a new step in the absolute rejection of all types of crimes motivated by racism in europe. the increase in the number of neo-nazi groups that are taking place in europe should be a wake-up call before they become political forces capable of imposing wars between peoples. capital is primarily interested in directing the people's anger towards "the other", rather than towards the owner of the means of production. in the face of the emergence of forces such as golden dawn in greece, we have an obligation to fight nazism on all fronts that european society can offer. the european parliament is one of them and therefore a resolution in this area is a step forward in the fight against nazism. in order to ensure that europe's future does not involve the annihilation of peoples as it did 70 years ago, we must ensure that these crimes are punished as severely as possible. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it calls for the building of a europe that fights against racism and xenophobia. we need a global strategy to tackle hate crime, thereby curbing prejudice-based violence and discrimination. the coordination of the policies of the member states in this field, through the political action of the council and the community executive, is part of the proposal of this parliament. we are in favour of combating this scourge and to do so we must encourage the collection of reliable data on this type of crime, based on the previous experience which, unfortunately, we still often find in our europe, in order to respect plurality and diversity, and to tackle this important social problem with greater harshness, in order to improve human coexistence between our peoples and people.
in writing. − in favour. lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people face the same type of threats, violence and crimes across the eu. racist and xenophobic crimes deserve specific punishment, and so do homophobic and transphobic ones: they target an entire group, rather than individuals. together with the commission, we are waiting for the results of the largest-ever survey on lgbt people’s lives in the eu and croatia. once these results are published, it will be up to viviane reding to translate them into effective change across eu policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the effective protection of the population sensitive to substances which are potentially dangerous to health. because of scientific advances in recent years, the importance of proper hormone production and its relationship to the proper functioning of the body is beginning to be known. there are numerous diseases that are related to the malfunctioning of the body's hormone production. these new developments have highlighted the importance of much more comprehensive regulation of the presence of chemicals that may alter the production of these substances. i believe that increased control of the maximum levels of these synthetic hormone-distorting chemicals in certain consumer products is essential to improving the health of european citizens. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. for we can't afford to wait any longer to act. the risk of disease from endocrine disruptors is vastly underestimated, and we continue to be exposed to these substances every day, through our food or through direct contact, in town and in the countryside. a clear and broad definition of these hazardous substances is therefore urgently needed to reduce the risk of exposure and to protect the most at-risk populations such as pregnant women, foetuses and children. indeed, pregnant women may unknowingly be harming the health of their unborn children. the public authorities must therefore inform the public through very clear national information campaigns: beware of pvc floor coverings, varnishes on certain furniture, tin cans containing bisphenol a, or cosmetic products that may also contain these endocrine disruptors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the term 'commercial'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the legal situation of immigrants in the various member states of the european union. the report partly sets out the many administrative problems faced by immigrants in claiming the same social rights as other inhabitants of the member states. the report, while not mentioning border control and the unfair treatment of immigrants, does suggest improvements to equal access to the same rights as european citizens. the introduction of legislation on the inclusion of immigrants in social security systems, access to certain social rights, etc., means fighting against the conditions of marginalization and institutional racism suffered by the immigrant population on many occasions in the member states. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the demographic situation in the european union is such that the working age population will decline by 14 million over the next decade. this requires us to take social and economic measures to enable the integration of new immigrants that europe will need when growth and employment levels are restored. however, while coordination of our social security systems may be necessary, our migration and asylum policies remain subject to imperatives linked to each national situation, in particular the labour market situation. european coordination in the field of immigration is to be considered, but in no case harmonization. i do not support the report by our colleague, mrs nadja hirsch, because it does not make that distinction.
in writing. for i welcome the adoption of this report which supports the granting of the right to vote to foreigners, particularly at local level, the opening up of legal migration channels, the creation of a rapid and effective european mechanism for the recognition of diplomas and qualifications, the development of reciprocity in social security and the facilitation of access to the labour market for foreign students. this report demonstrates the aberration of the security approach currently being developed by the member states and agrees with the observation already made by the united nations and the council of europe, which is supported by many reports. the contribution of migration is essential to the development, including economic development, of our societies. the challenge for the union is to increase its attractiveness and to facilitate the reception of migrants. this requires an ambitious, open and respectful approach to migrants' rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a total ban on asbestos still existing in europe and proposes actions to remove all asbestos still existing. asbestos is an extremely toxic substance which has been used for years in europe as a building material because of its low cost and its saving advantages. for years this material was used until its terrible health consequences were discovered and it was banned. however, many buildings still have this material, exposing the workers who occupy them to significant health risks. the report goes into more detail on the need to act on the places where this material is found, with a view to cleaning all european buildings of this dangerous material before the 2023 deadline. this ban comes from a union campaign for the protection of workers' health. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. this resolution basically calls on the eu to develop, implement and support a model for asbestos screening and registration in accordance with article 11of directive 2009/148/ec and to request owners of public or commercial buildings to: a. screen buildings for the presence of asbestos-containing materials; b. prepare plans to manage the risks they present; c. ensure that such information is available to workers who may disturb such materials; d. in the case of member states who already implement compulsory screening schemes, to increase the efficiency of such schemes.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it seeks to extend and improve the functioning of european mutual societies, it means breaking down the barriers of protection in the member states. mutual societies are non-profit-making cooperative societies, usually operating in the fields of employment, insurance or health insurance. the form of these types of societies is interesting, but it's no guarantee that they won't end up with a capitalist functioning. the report includes interesting points to improve the status of these types of companies and make them equal throughout the european union, but also proposes the elimination of trade barriers to the activity of these companies between member states, which is a step forward in the development and implementation of the single market. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. in this resolution we basically, in the light of the outcome of the recent study on the situation of mutual societies in the union, and bearing in mind the clear preference expressed on several occasions by parliament for a statute for a european mutual society, request the commission swiftly to submit, following the detailed recommendations set out in the annex hereto, on the basis of article 352 or, possibly, article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, one or more proposals allowing mutual societies to act on a european and cross-border scale.
in writing. - i did not vote for this resolution because it bases its political position on the use of unilateral investigations, where there is no voice of the north korean people. despite condemning the use of nuclear weapons and the violations of human rights in the country, i believe that the voice of this asian country has been marginalized by condemning it before it is investigated. on one of the most militarized borders in the world, both north and south, we must take the available information with caution, which is why i advocate the opening of an international investigation under the auspices of the united nations that provides truthful information on the human rights situation in the country. i do not agree with the testing of nuclear weapons, but continued isolation in the absence of international negotiations cannot serve the pacification of the area. that is why i could not vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. with this resolution the ep condemns the nuclear tests and missile activities carried out by the dprk, and urges it to refrain from further provocative actions by suspending all activities related to its ballistic missile programme and abandoning, in a complete and irreversible manner, the existing nuclear programmes, and calls on the dprk to sign and ratify the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty without delay.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it reflects a retrograde view of european foreign policy towards china. this report is an act of interference in chinese politics in the purest style of 19th century imperialism. this contradictory report, which seeks to impose conditions on the asian republic, comes at a time when china is far outstripping europe's international importance in the world system. in this context of profound change in the world system, there must be no room for this kind of political positioning that demands outside without looking inside and a process of negotiation between equals must be given way. without understanding the role china is playing in the world, the european union will not be able to develop a proper system of external relations and will lose importance at the international level. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it would have led to a diversion of attention from the problems of sport in the various member states of the union. the european parliament is taking a stand on match-fixing at a time when regional governments in spain are taking over the debts of some of the leading football clubs. it is certainly a major problem in the operation of sport in europe, which reduces its quality in order to maintain the profits linked to the big companies that sports clubs have become. party buying can be a practice that, due to its widespread use, has become a major source of illegal business. but there are many more problems linked to sport, with the amount of money it generates on the continent, which should have been included in this resolution. that is why i did not vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. among other things, the text calls on all the main stakeholders individually to take responsibility and to develop a comprehensive approach by complementing one another’s efforts to combat match-fixing in sport. it also asks the commission to develop a coordinated approach to the fight against match-fixing and organised crime by coordinating the efforts of the main stakeholders, such as sports organisations, national police and judicial authorities and gambling operators, in this area and by providing a platform for discussion and for the exchange of information and best practice. thirdly, it calls on sports organisations to adopt a zero-tolerance policy on corruption (both internally and in relation to external contractors) in order to prevent their members from yielding to external pressure. fourthly, it urges sports organisations to establish a code of conduct for all staff and officials (players, coaches, referees, medical and technical staff and club and association leaders) which sets out the dangers of match-fixing, includes a clear prohibition on manipulating matches for betting or other purposes, stipulates the associated sanctions and includes a ban on gambling on own matches and an obligation to report any approaches concerning, or awareness of, match-fixing, coupled with an adequate whistleblower protection mechanism.
in writing. - it is understandable that the public authorities should deal with issues such as violence in sport or the use of substances not allowed by sportsmen, but it is surprising that they should also intervene in match-fixing, since maintaining fair play should be an inexcusable guideline in the behaviour of any sportsman who, where appropriate, could be monitored by the corresponding federations or associations, but not by the public authorities directly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, as did the european united left/nordic green left group, because it represents a step forward in the regulation of these international value chains. the resolution contains aspects related to the ecological conditions of production of the material to allow this type of production to be sustainable. these include the use of pesticides that affect the quality of agricultural soil as well as irrigation practices that have produced numerous problems in central asia. but the resolution also includes aspects relating to the labour rights of those involved in the supply chain. taking all these aspects into account for a label that allows the purchase is an important step forward for responsible consumption of this product in europe. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
mr president, the emissions market is one of the most important instruments of the european union's energy and climate policy. it is also a mechanism that covers a wide range of economic sectors, and all countries are affected by this type of policy. without this landmark tool, the forecasts we're making for 2050 simply wouldn't be achievable. in the short term, therefore, the withdrawal from the rights market proposed by the european commission is necessary, although i believe that a general reform of this market must be launched, as has also been advocated in the committee on industry, research and energy. the alternative, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, would be to reinstate 27 energy and 27 climate policies.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank mr gallagher for raising this issue. it is a really important issue. we have already discussed, in this house, the consequences of overfishing by iceland and the faroe islands on fish stocks and the preservation of these species. i share concerns over the impact of these actions on our fishermen, and especially the impact of these actions on our local fisheries and local communities. small-scale vessels and small fishermen have no alternatives, so i agree that for them this is a very difficult situation. we are following the situation very carefully. we are trying, through many channels, to put pressure on the icelandic and faroese governments to change their policy. we hope that, at the end of the day – although it will take a lot of time – we will be able to come back to negotiations with all coastal governments and reach real agreement on this topic. although for the moment this is not the case, we will have to see what we are going to do. to cut a long story short, the option of trade sanctions is, of course, on the table. however, it is important that we carefully consider two very important factors. firstly, we have to consider carefully what the legal conditions are that we have to meet. secondly, we have to think carefully about the timing of our actions. regarding mackerel, we are now discussing the possible options with the member states. next week i will meet the norwegian minister in brussels, and i hope that we can come to a common decision. we would like to have a common decision with the norwegian government on this. however, i should say that the commission has already looked into the procedural aspects with the aim of accelerating the decision-making process if and when we go forward. so, if we decide to go forward, we have already made all the preparations for accelerating the procedure. i would like to assure members that we will keep everyone interested in this issue informed, starting from next week, when we finalise the discussions with the norwegian government. regarding atlanto-scandian herring, the landscape here is rather clearer – unfortunately, i would say. the commission regrets the announcement made on 26 march 2013 by the faroe islands that they intend unilaterally to more than triple their quota.
madam president, what is at stake is compliance with international standards. the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the agreement on straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks clearly establish the need for very close cooperation between all coastal and fishing member states. this is what the european union, norway, the faroe islands and iceland have been doing with regard to mackerel in the north-east atlantic, and what has happened since 2010 - as mr gallagher has clearly explained - is that the faroe islands have increased their catches fivefold since 2006 and iceland has increased its catches by 23. overall, the sustainability of these resources is being undermined without regard to existing fishing patterns, the rights and interests of other countries and the european union. this is causing great concern within the sector and action is needed, firstly to restore a culture of compliance and the existence of rules and, secondly, because otherwise the allocation of internal quotas, the management measures being taken by the member states and even the credibility of the control measures being carried out will be called into question. so we have to reset the playing field, we have to react. i clearly support the commissioner in her desire to find solutions. i think it is very reasonable that it should try to do so through dialogue, but i think it should also take into account the need to take action in the event of failure and clearly set a time frame for this.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr karas, and the parliament's negotiating team on having managed to tackle these issues, which are the failures of the banking system that have led to a public, costly and unprecedented crisis. it was necessary to address unsustainable credit growth and institutions with insufficient capital quality and quantity, to provide protection against risks arising from complex and liquid activities as well as off-balance sheet exposures, to strengthen governance and to create an appropriate incentive system. this initiative is a milestone in delivering on the g20 commitments to a stronger financial system that supports growth and meets the needs of families and citizens, and updates the basel iii review. for the first time, there is a regulation for the uniform application of rules in the european union and also a directive to improve governance and supervision. the agreement, in my view, has three very positive aspects: it affects the 8 000 banking institutions - with differentiated treatment - , it supports the real economy and, moreover, it seeks consistent implementation at international level. i think it supports a change of culture by limiting the ratio between fixed and variable remuneration, it supports transparency by setting accounting standards country by country and at the same time it introduces flexibility and proportionality by favouring a treatment of systemic risks and credit to small businesses. regulatory reform must continue.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although it introduces some points of interest for improving the security of information networks, it does involve the creation of an agency which will support the member states in their network and information security strategies. i believe that there is no unified standard for network and information security policies and that it can be an instrument to support member states in their efforts to censor the internet, prosecute cyber activists and exchange information communities. attempts by member states to impose online censorship and to prohibit the free exchange of data and media and information are becoming more serious. i voted against because of this clear risk that this agency could pose to the freedom of the net.
in writing. − the importance of networks and information technologies is growing in our society. today, data security is already an essential element for the proper functioning of the internal market, but also for the daily lives of citizens and business activity. the mandate of the agency responsible for cybersecurity at eu level, enisa, was therefore required to be renewed and we have finally approved it today. my vote in favour is in the belief that the new mandate will adapt the functions of enisa so that it can deal with the constantly changing threats to information security. it is also welcome that an acceptable agreement has been reached on the seat of enisa, which will remain in crete although another operational seat will be opened in athens. an acceptable compromise has also been reached on the duration of the agency's mandate, which will eventually be seven years. the mandate may be extended after due assessment.
in writing. − in favour. enisa - the european network and information security agency, or ‘the agency’ - was established in march 2004 for a five-year period which was subsequently extended in 2008 until march 2012. in september 2010, the commission came forward with two proposals, the first was to further extend the agency’s period of establishment by a period of 18 months until september 2013, and the second was a more substantive proposal to modernise and streamline the agency. with unanimous support from the parliament, it was decided to first approve the extension of the agency’s mandate to secure the immediate future of the agency and allow parliament more time to launch a thorough debate and analysis on the longer term future of the agency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i share the concern about the impact of overexploitation of the seas on whales. these are endangered species and the current european legislation leaves important gaps affecting these species. the report seeks to amend the legislation to apply effective protection to these species and to oblige the commission and the member states to take measures which do not only cover acoustic devices but implement a comprehensive protection. cetacean populations are declining dramatically and more mammals are dying each year in european waters and around the world. if we do not apply a global defense of this type of cetaceans is very likely to reduce their populations to limits that can cause their disappearance. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour (i was the rapporteur). it is very important to find a legally well-founded solution safeguarding parliament’s rights created by the tfeu. i globally agree with the commission’s proposal to the extent that it suggests the use of delegated acts to adapt conditions and technical specifications for the use of acoustic deterrent devices and implementing acts concerning the procedure and format for reporting obligations for member states. however, i also suggested some amendments to the commission’s proposal – i.e. stricter definition of the circumstances under which the commission may adopt delegated acts.
in writing. - i support this report because the agreement is good news, as it reopens a fishing zone that has been closed to european vessels since 2007. in particular, we will be able to catch 5 000 tonnes, to be divided among 86 community vessels, 41 of which are basque tuna-fishing vessels. the agreement also sets the course for other fisheries agreements: it is balanced, it is in harmony with the local fleet and it should mark a turning point in the dangerous trend which has recently been observed in the negotiation of these agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it includes an improvement in parliament's information and monitoring systems on the negotiations which the commission is conducting on the renewal of this treaty. the commission is alone in the negotiations which will lead to the renewal of the fisheries agreement with the islands. without parliament's scrutiny, the commission can draw up an agreement which provides for fair financial compensation and which respects mauritius' sovereignty over its waters. the sustainability of fisheries in mauritius is excluded from the agreement, which argues that the indian ocean does not need to be protected, a point that should be open to question. the previous agreement also laid down aspects which have disappeared in the new one, such as the obligation to promote mauritius' fisheries sector by favouring a food system based on geographical proximity. so that parliament can control all these aspects, i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. relations in the fisheries area between the european union and the republic of mauritius started in 1989. until 2007, they were undisturbed, but on the expiry of the 2003-2007 protocol, the parties were unable to agree on the conditions for its renewal. since then, the european fleet has had to operate under private access regimes. the efforts to come to an agreement were renewed in 2010 and it is those efforts that have led to the fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol that the commission initialled on 23 february 2012. among other issues, the new protocol contains more detailed clauses concerning the suspension and revision of financial compensation and the suspension of implementation of the protocol in certain circumstances, in particular in the case of a breach of the essential and fundamental elements of human rights and democratic principles as provided for in article 9 of the cotonou agreement (see articles 7 and 8 of the protocol).
in writing. - i am pleased that parliament has broadly supported my recommendation to support the eu-mauritius fisheries agreement and its protocol. eu-mauritius fisheries relations started in 1989 and were interrupted in 2007. this agreement and the protocol establish a new framework, incorporating the fisheries sector into existing cooperation relations. it sets the compensation at eur 660 000 per year (plus eur 35 per tonne caught), of which eur 302 500 is intended to support mauritius' fisheries and maritime policy in return for fishing opportunities for 86 european vessels with a revised tonnage of 5 500 tonnes per year. the presence in the indian ocean ensures the activity and employment of our fleet, contributing to its diversification and viability, and promotes the local fishing industry, which accounts for 15% of exports, and respects its activity by limiting itself to non-competing species. the 15 mile clause also benefits mauritius. the impact assessment does not detect any negative impact. the agreement and protocol will strengthen mauritius' capacity to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and will have a positive impact on the fiscal and political stability of the country. the european parliament wishes to play an active role in the implementation and evaluation of this agreement and protocol.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a contribution from european funds is necessary to reduce the economic impact on the 1517 workers of the italian company antonio merloni spa. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a european financial instrument to reduce the impact of industrial conversion due to globalisation on european industry. the industrial transformation of european enterprises has a strong impact on workers' incomes; the use of these funds is aimed at reducing this impact as much as possible. in the present economic crisis, the dismissal of such a large number of workers is particularly serious. the fund finances training policies and benefits for companies that employ such workers. i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of this fund for workers.
in writing. − in favour. the production plants of antonio merloni spa, a producer of domestic appliances, were located in the italian regions of marche and umbria and in particular the provinces of ancona and perugia. antonio merloni spa, in 2002 the fifth largest manufacturer of appliances in the eu, changed its sales strategy and in 2006 started selling its products directly through its own brands. with the outbreak of the global financial and economic crisis, the company got into financial difficulties, which were further exacerbated by the sudden tightening of conditions for access to financial credit. the downturn in production, which had been following the downward trend at european level, combined with financial constraints, finally resulted in the cessation of the business activities of antonio merloni spa. a total of 2 217 workers were made redundant, of whom 700 were taken over by the company qa group spa. this application therefore covers the 1 517 workers left jobless through the closure of antonio merloni spa.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a contribution from european funds is necessary to reduce the economic impact on the 876 workers of the italian company agile s.r.l. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a european financial instrument to reduce the impact of industrial conversion due to globalisation on european industry. the industrial transformation of european enterprises has a strong impact on workers' incomes; the use of these funds is aimed at reducing this impact as much as possible. in the present economic crisis the dismissal of such a large number of workers is particularly serious. the fund finances training policies and benefits for companies that employ such workers. i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of this fund for workers.
in writing. − in favour. the italian authorities argue that the strong decline of the ict sector in italy hit agile s.r.l. particularly hard. the effects of the global financial and economic crisis occurred when agile was changing its commercial strategy by moving from offering call center services at local level to offering integrated it services at multi-regional level. in the context of a downturn, the enterprise’s efforts and the necessary investment proved to be unequal to achieving agile’s goals of growth, resulting in heavy losses and eventually in insolvency with the consequence of dismissals. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded includes measures for the reintegration of 856 workers into employment, such as career advice and skills assessment, outplacement and job-search assistance, vocational training and skills upgrades, postgraduate education, entrepreneurship promotion and contributions to business start-up, hiring benefits, mentoring after reintegration into work, job-search allowances and contributions towards special expenses such as contributions for carers of dependent persons, contributions to commuting expenses and contributions to expenses for moving residence to take up a new job.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a contribution from european funds is necessary to reduce the economic impact on the 270 workers of the italian company austria tabak. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a european financial instrument to reduce the impact of industrial conversion due to globalisation on european industry. the industrial transformation of european enterprises has a strong impact on workers' incomes; the use of these funds is aimed at reducing this impact as much as possible. in the present economic crisis the dismissal of such a large number of workers is particularly serious. the fund finances training policies and benefits for companies that employ such workers. i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of this fund for workers.
in writing. − abstention. the subsistence allowance for workers on training and on job search is said to amount to eur 1 000 per worker per month (calculated for 13 months, unemployment benefit will be interrupted during that period). it will be combined with a training allowance of eur 200 per worker per month. however, we believe that the egf should be primarily allocated to training and job search as well as to occupational orientation programmes, and its financial contribution to allowances should always be of an additional nature and in parallel to what is available to dismissed workers by virtue of national law or collective agreements. in this case, eur 4 266 000 of the total cost of the package amounting to eur 5 864 615 is devoted to various financial allowances.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it is an attack on certain economic sectors in the countries of asia, the caribbean and the pacific, i do not consider participation in the global market to be a way of developing these countries. the unequal exchange is the basis of a global capitalist system which benefits some areas while impoverishing others; while the acp countries export raw materials at low cost, they import technology and products with higher added value from europe, becoming, in the long term, technologically dependent countries. the report seeks to give differential treatment to countries which do not meet the conditions the union wishes to impose on them, which is an unacceptable act of commercial imperialism, but we cannot argue that these trade liberalization agreements can be the basis for an economic development process. that is why i could not vote in favour.
in writing. − the greens have here maintained our view that neither 1 january nor 1 october 2014 are acceptable. additionally, 1 january 2014 is not even feasible, given the ordinary procedural deadlines, before a regulation comes into force.
mr president, i have opposed what i consider to be a seizure of co2 emission rights because that measure not only helps to reduce carbon emissions but, on a global level, is counterproductive. the current prices of emission allowances are linked to the financial crisis we are experiencing and are punishing the real economy. this would be a new punishment for productive sectors that need a predictable and transparent framework, that cannot bear an artificial increase in costs that will generate more unemployment, that are willing to provide more solutions, innovation and creativity - as they have done so far to reduce these emissions - and that, moreover, compete in a global market. without global regulation, this hijacking benefits countries like china, which will fill, or would fill, the gaps in the market left by european companies that close down, victims of these measures. and we will buy products made with state subsidies that here would be illegal and under social and environmental standards that have nothing to do with ours. that is why i opposed the measure and welcomed parliament's position.
in writing. - i voted against this report because we reject the emissions trading system in plenary. it is a farce that allows the broadcasting companies themselves to make a profit by speculating in a market that makes no sense. the limits set in this system are much higher than current emission levels, allowing europe's most polluting companies to be listed as non-polluting and even to sell emission allowances. this system is a complete sham to justify a new speculative market and an international mechanism for appropriating the natural resources of the least polluting countries. the report tries to set a timetable for reforming the system, but this system is a failed system, the current reduction in emissions is due to the decline in consumption that is being caused by the crisis, it is not due to this emissions system. the market cannot solve the problems it creates. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − an irresponsible and unholy alliance of meps has today voted to allow the rot in the eu’s emissions trading scheme to continue. the ‘backloading’ proposal was only a stop-gap measure, which would have bought time to allow a more fundamental solution to the problems in the ets to be adopted. rejecting the proposal will undoubtedly further undermine the already weak carbon market and push the entire scheme to the precipice. to this end, we call on the commission to try and forge a new compromise stop-gap with meps as soon as possible. the two-faced arguments of the centre-right meps about how the eu carbon market should be left to sort itself out are cynical in the extreme. it is precisely because of centre-right politicians in europe that the emissions trading scheme was established as a flawed market, with various loopholes, which have led to the situation we are in today. by opposing necessary steps to fix these problems they have caused, they are effectively signalling their desire to destroy the eu’s flagship climate change policy. the time for tinkering is now clearly over.
in writing. − the economic crisis and the decrease in industrial activity within the eu are entailing an oversupply of emission allowances in the eu emissions trading system (ets), and thus the price of co2 emissions has decreased considerably. but as i mentioned before, we are in a deep economic and industrial crisis and intervening in the ets market will make it even deeper. reducing the allowances will mean that their price will increase and therefore the production costs of our industries will do likewise. as a result, european industry will be threatened by a loss of competitiveness which will slow down economic recovery. for the reasons above, i rejected the commission’s proposal.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a proposal which allows airlines to pay more economically for the pollution they produce. although i am against the emissions trading scheme, the proposal in this report is outrageous, because it means maintaining legal uncertainty to allow many airlines not to pay their emission allowances. air traffic is an activity that produces a significant level of co2 emissions, having a direct impact on global warming worldwide. although the ets is a failed system, there is no legal basis for considering that airlines, one of the few that should actually pay, should be exempted. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − against. freezing the inclusion of non-intra eu flights in the eu’s emissions trading scheme is a retrograde move, which will let the aviation sector off the hook for its growing emissions and do precious little to improve chances of international action. the only way the commission’s plans could have been justified would be if they had included some leverage to make progress on measures to tackle the issue at international level, but the proposals voted today will fail to do so. these proposals will mean that flights accounting for a large proportion of the emissions from international aviation will be excluded from the scheme at this fledgling stage. this is in spite of growing emissions from the sector, which are undermining the efforts of other sectors to combat climate change, and the lack of any alternative for tackling aviation emissions.
mr president, the crisis we are experiencing has its origin in the perversion of the values which govern the financial system. on the one hand, speculation has been imposed on the service of the productive economy. on the other hand, many financial institutions have managed to avoid their responsibilities because they were of such a size that they put the entire economic, productive and financial system at risk. the system also has names and surnames: those of the managers who have received the highest and best pay the more speculative the products they invented and sold. limiting remuneration and linking incentives to practices that return the financial sector to its instrumental role and put it definitively at the service of real growth is a step in the right direction. i also think it is basic to force banks to strengthen their capital reserves so that they can gamble with their own money. we are paying for individual bankruptcies; the banks are paying for them too. that is why i support a report in which i wish for more decision-making to ensure that credit flows back into the productive system.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it introduces certain principles of prudential management with which i could agree, it claims that these requirements applied to these private entities are the way to solve the problems that the financial system has caused in the world. the report contains points which represent a step forward in the operation and control of european financial institutions. for example, it seeks to avoid the need for the states to pay to guarantee the liquidity of financial systems, as has happened in spain, and it obliges the sector to maintain a lower level of risky operations and to maintain higher reserves to respond to possible liquidity problems. all these measures are progress, but the report is in response to a mandate from the g20 and seeks to strengthen a financial sector which is the culprit of the crisis and for which we are all europeans paying. it is because of this lack of demand for accountability that i have not been able to vote in favour.
in writing. the karas reporting package will provide the foundation on which to build the banking union, which will apply to some 8 200 banks. among other things, i think that the limit introduced for bankers' annual bonuses - that is, the non-fixed part of their remuneration associated with the achievement of objectives - should be highlighted, which, as a general rule, cannot exceed the annual fixed salary.
in writing. − in favour. the crd banking legislation adopted today is a real breakthrough in terms of regulating europe’s banking sector. parliament played a crucial role in ensuring this legislation is truly robust, with its successful insistence on a cap on bonuses, transparency of banking activities and a capital surcharge for systemic banks. the legislation thus goes far beyond its basic capital requirements remit and will help put europe’s banking sector on a sounder footing. eu-wide curbs on the excessive bonuses paid to bankers would mean the eu is finally, if belatedly, responding to public interest and demand regarding the sometimes obscene levels of bankers’ remuneration. the variable remuneration of bankers and traders may not exceed the total amount of their salary (at a ratio of 1:1), unless shareholders explicitly approve higher bonuses (up to twice the amount of the salary). while parliament would have preferred a stricter 1:1 limit, the final deal represents a huge step forward. crucially, the legislation will also ensure much greater transparency for banks’ accounts.
in writing. − on 20 july 2011, the commission adopted a package of legislative measures (crd 4) to strengthen the regulation of the banking sector. the proposal replaces the current capital requirements directives (2006/48 and 2006/49) with a directive and a regulation and is an important step towards creating a sound and secure basis for the financial system. the directive introduces the first set of precautionary rules to apply to all eu banks, which will have to publish their profits, taxes paid and subsidies received in all countries, as well as turnover and number of employees. i believe that supervision by the competent national authorities, in cooperation with the european banking authority, which will have new powers, will be measures which will improve the financial functioning of the union.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it introduces certain principles of prudential management with which i could agree, it accepts these private entities as the only possible actors and the status quo of this financial system. the report contains points which represent a step forward in the operation and control of european financial institutions. for example, it seeks to avoid that the states have to pay to ensure the liquidity of financial systems, as has happened in spain, it obliges the sector to maintain a lower level of risky operations and to maintain higher reserves to respond to possible liquidity problems. all these measures are progress, but the report is in response to a mandate from the g20 and seeks to strengthen a financial sector which is the culprit of the crisis and for which we are all europeans paying. it is because of this lack of demand for accountability that i have not been able to vote in favour.
in writing. the karas reporting package will provide the foundation on which to build the banking union, which will apply to some 8 200 banks. among other things, i think that the limit introduced for bankers' annual bonuses - that is, the non-fixed part of their remuneration associated with the achievement of objectives - should be highlighted, which, as a general rule, cannot exceed the annual fixed salary.
in writing. − in favour. banks will be obliged to publish the details of their activities and in particular their profits, taxes paid and subsidies received, for every country in which they are active. this is crucial with a view to ensuring proper transparency for issues like revenue collection and tackling tax avoidance. the legislation will also provide for additional capital requirements for banks deemed ‘too big to fail’ (i.e. banks whose bankruptcy would have serious consequences for the financial system and real economy). in addition to the minimum requirements (10.5%), these bloated banks will be required to maintain additional capital of up to 3.5%. the failure to include a binding leverage ratio for banks is a source of regret, although this is an essential regulatory instrument for limiting excessive levels of debts. new rules on liquidity, obliging banks to hold liquid assets and reduce their dependence on short term financing, are also far weaker than necessary.
in writing. − on 20 july 2011, the commission adopted a package of legislative measures (crd 4) to strengthen the regulation of the banking sector. the proposal replaces the current capital requirements directives (2006/48 and 2006/49) with a directive and a regulation and is an important step towards the creation of a sound and secure financial system. the regulation sets out the prudential requirements that institutions must respect and i particularly welcome the fact that these new rules make it easier for smes to access finance. the report adopted introduces a number of instruments aimed at boosting growth and employment. the risk ratio for loans to smes and loans for business start-ups is proposed to be reduced by 30%. i think it is important that parliament should be seeking to reduce the cost of loans and the risk involved in loans for transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure projects.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it reinforces the subcontracting of services at the major european airports. the report will lead to a decline in the quality of airport ground services and worsen the working conditions of airport staff. the subcontracting of public services to private companies has been shown to result in poorer quality services and worsening of working conditions. in the field of airport groundhandling, subcontracting will lead to a deterioration in safety conditions, since maximising profits requires inevitable cost competition, with hundreds of companies competing for each offer, which will be judged only on the price of their offer, never on the quality of the service. i am opposed to any policy of privatising public services and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − meps have regrettably given clearance to these flawed plans to further liberalise ground handling services. the cobbled-together compromise adopted today is both senseless – as it will only apply to a handful of airports (1) – and flawed, as it fails to provide guarantees for employee rights. against. apart from the wrongheadedness of creating eu legislation for a handful of airports, the proposals to further liberalise ground handling services risk further undermining social and employment standards. bad working conditions for ground handlers undermine the quality of services, with unacceptable consequences on safety and security. further undermining working conditions is against the interests of both workers and passengers. the legislation adopted today creates no added value and should have been grounded permanently.
in writing. - i abstained from the final vote because i do not see the need for a general european regulation on the subject covered by this regulation, since it actually affects very few european airports.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it is vitally important to apply specific rules in these shared waters, i believe that the proposal avoids some of the obligations which fishermen must currently fulfil, reducing the levels of protection in the skagerrak. it is necessary to regulate fishing activity in these waters shared between norway and sweden, as they are the only waters bordering the european union that lack specific regulation. however, the development of fisheries regulations for a specific area should improve protection; for example, this report removes the obligation to land all catches in some cases, thus encouraging the practice of discards in the waters mentioned. that is why, although i share the need for legislation, i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the main purpose of the proposal is to put in place a discard ban in the skagerrak. the present order where in some cases quite large parts of the total catches are discarded back into the sea is maybe what for the general public is the hardest to understand and support in the common fisheries policy. that perfectly good fish is thrown overboard in times when we are struggling to feed the population of the earth is regarded as incomprehensible and even immoral. the proposal puts in place a landing obligation and the supporting rules necessary to control and inspect that the obligation is followed. the main tool for the legislator to make the citizens follow the rules they write is that the rules are viewed as fair and equitable. people want to abide by the law but would only do so reluctantly if they perceive it as unfair. the main tool for making the discard ban in the skagerrak a fair deal – the fishing opportunities, the quotas – is not within the powers of the european parliament.
mr president, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that we need a european framework which offers more legal security to citizens against discrimination on grounds of sex. this process was initiated by a judgment against the charging of insurance services, but it reveals and reminds us that, in many areas, gender is still a cause of visible, obvious and tolerated discrimination. discrimination also affects everything from access to healthcare services to renting housing or economic and entrepreneurial activity. in civilized europe there are still areas where stereotypes, preconceived ideas, are imposed on data, objective assessments and facts. i therefore agree with the need to speed up all the legal measures which, at european level, can correct this problem.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a further step towards the definitive protection of equality between men and women. the report criticises the poor follow-up by the commission of the implementation of council directive 2004/113/ec and underlines the need to monitor how countries are doing in this respect. the report draws attention to different economic sectors that apply discriminatory policies and calls for an end to these practices, for example in the insurance sector, which includes gender as a variable in calculating its rates. the report also stresses the need for a monitoring policy covering direct and indirect discrimination and calls for the inclusion of media and advertising in the equal treatment directive. i therefore regard this as a step forward in this respect and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this report, which assesses, albeit with some delay, the transposition of directive 2004/113/ec by the member states. this standard addresses gender equality and sexual discrimination for the first time in a field other than employment, covering all goods and services and their supply. it is important that, beyond the wage gap and gender differences in the workplace (both fundamental issues!), we move towards a society more conscious of equal treatment between men and women and, above all, of overcoming gender stereotypes.
in writing. − in favour. the text includes two of our main demands. one: on the commission to fully include discrimination on ground of gender identity in future policy and legislation in the field of gender equality (included in recital m). and two: on discrimination in relation to pregnancy, maternity and gender identity as regards the housing sector (renting) or obtaining loans, as well as to access to medical goods and services, in particular as regards access to legally available reproductive healthcare and gender reassignment treatment (included in paragraph 15).
in writing. − women continue to face obstacles based on gender stereotypes. some member states discriminate against women entrepreneurs, in particular single mothers, when they seek to obtain loans or credit for their businesses. council directive 2004/113/ec, which applies the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services, prohibits less favourable treatment of women on grounds of pregnancy and maternity, as well as sexual harassment and sexual harassment and orders to discriminate, irrespective of the goods or services offered or supplied. however, the directive is problematic because it provides for sex as a factor in the calculation of premiums and benefits for insurance and related financial services. i therefore urge the commission to continue its efforts to reorganise premiums according to gender-neutral criteria by applying actuarial calculations based on other factors, in accordance with article 5 (1).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, thanks to the amendments tabled by my group in this parliament, it does not assume that trade is an automatic engine of growth. the report focuses on a number of issues which are fundamental to understanding the role that trade can play in developing countries. among other points, it stresses the importance of promoting local trade models for the development of countries that are not dependent on their export sectors, the importance of developing south-south trade as a way of fostering economic relations between countries with similar economic structures, calls for the inclusion of human rights clauses in free trade agreements, etc. all these points make the report a good instrument for bringing a critical approach to eu trade policies and linking them to development aid objectives so that european trade policies cannot be planned without taking into account the well-being of citizens in developing countries. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the european union is a major trading power in the world. in all its agreements with third countries, the eu must respect and promote human rights, as reflected in a clause stipulating that human rights are an essential element of its relations. in the same vein, it should be ensured that eu trade with third countries, especially developing countries, is inclusive, sustainable and promotes social cohesion.
in writing. − abstention. greens’ amendments aimed by and large either to strengthen some of its statements (by reflecting, inter alia, the conclusions of various unctad reports on foreign direct investment and the risks of premature and rapid trade liberalisation, etc.) or to cover other topics not (or hardly) dealt with by the rapporteur, such as: the problems raised for developing countries by economic partnership agreements in terms of fiscal revenue losses and regional integration; difficulties for some developing countries in compensating the decline in trade taxes resulting from trade liberalisation; investment agreements, reflecting growing discontent raised by the investor-state dispute settlement; public procurement: the reciprocity principle can be extremely harmful for developing countries (reassertion of the right to regulate investment); aid for trade should be geared towards the objectives of diversification of production, regional integration, technology transfers, building-up of domestic productive capacity, and reducing income inequality; tax havens (an international convention on the model of automatic exchange of information shall include sanctions for non-cooperative jurisdictions and for financial institutions that operate with tax havens); conflict minerals/resources and sustainable mining; export taxation (the eu’s attempt to ban or curb the use of export taxes goes against pcd); corporate social responsibility: the need to establish a clear international legal framework regarding the responsibilities and obligations of business in relation to human rights, etc.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it contradicts all the historical experience of the developing countries. for years the main problems of developing countries have been export investments that had no link with the local economy, leading to increased inequalities, shrinking domestic consumption, and dependence on international markets. trade may be the basis of a development process, but to regard it as the "engine of development" is to ignore the reality of economic history since the 15th century, since trade was the "engine of underdevelopment". the report even acknowledges the work of certain international organizations in promoting development. this report is the umpteenth in which international trade is claimed to be the only solution to the economic problems of developing countries. i voted against it because of its lack of scientific analysis of the role of trade in development.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote.
president of the european central bank. − madam president, i am very pleased to take part in this debate today. it forms a central part of the ecb’s accountability towards the european parliament, to which the ecb attaches the utmost importance. since 2011, the ecb has taken a number of important measures to address severe distortions in the financial markets and to address fragmentation. although i have had many opportunities to discuss the ecb’s policies during my regular hearings before the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), today is an opportunity to take a broad view on recent economic developments and monetary policy decisions, as well as to discuss the adjustment in the euro area and the outlook for emu governance. this will allow me to cover several issues highlighted in the draft resolution. first, the economic developments and monetary policy decisions. following two years of recovery, the euro area moved into recession in 2012. unemployment has reached unprecedented levels, especially among young people. this economic weakness was driven by declining private consumption and faltering investment, in an environment of weak business and consumer confidence and financial market tensions. we expect a gradual recovery in euro area economic activity for the second half of this year – but this scenario is subject to downside risks. in 2012, headline hicp inflation in the euro area was 2.5%, reflecting elevated energy prices and increases in indirect taxes and administered prices. annual inflation rates have since declined to 1.7% in march this year. the governing council remains firmly committed to its price stability mandate. this is fully reflected in long-term inflation expectations, which have remained firmly anchored, in line with our price stability objective of below but close to 2%. 2011 and 2012 were years in which much of our focus was on the proper transmission of our monetary policy. when changes in policy rates are not appropriately transmitted to the real economy, this is a matter of concern. in a context of large refinancing needs and persisting funding stress for banks, the ecb launched two long-term (three-year) refinancing operations in late 2011 and early 2012. these operations, in combination with our measures to enhance the availability of collateral, were pivotal in preventing a disorderly process of lenders’ deleveraging and a large-scale credit crunch. this action was instrumental in maintaining price stability. later in 2012, a renewed confidence crisis, in part reflecting unwarranted investor fears about the reversibility of the euro, caused a severe deterioration in financial markets. sovereign bond and bank lending rates in some countries increased dramatically, thereby impairing access to financing of the real economy. to safeguard the singleness of monetary policy and to ensure an effective transmission of the ecb’s policy intentions to the broad economy, in august the governing council announced its readiness to undertake outright monetary transactions, otherwise called omts. these have proved to be an effective backstop against unfounded fears of reversibility. strict conditionality contains moral hazard on the side of governments. it ensures that they will adopt the reforms that are necessary to secure their solvency and to foster conditions of steady growth for their economies. as i said before, the repair of the transmission channel cannot be done by the central bank alone – governments need to do their part. let me therefore turn to the ongoing adjustment in member states and the euro area more generally. during the past five years, a number of euro area countries have seen a significant correction of their external and domestic imbalances. in ireland, greece and portugal, current account balances improved by more than 7% of gdp between 2008 and 2012. but a large part of this adjustment has been driven by a contraction in domestic demand, triggered by the unwinding of long-accumulated unsustainable developments and by the cyclical downturn. at the same time, in ireland, spain and portugal, export performance has been very strong compared with the pre-crisis period. this is a sign that a genuine structural correction is taking place and resources are being moved from the non-tradable sector to the production of traded goods. we have also seen some improvement in cost competitiveness, which has contributed to the external adjustment. between 2008 and 2012, in the three programme countries that i mentioned before, the cumulated unit labour cost growth was about 10 percentage points below the euro area average. the adjustment has been mainly driven by an increase in average productivity, largely reflecting labour shedding, rather than by a reduction in nominal wages. the latter adjustment has been much more limited so far. this has contributed to increasing the real cost of adjustment and the burden borne by the more vulnerable members of our societies. it calls for greater determination in further addressing rigidities in wage-setting and increasing competition in many segments of the economy. reducing rents is not only a matter of efficiency in the adjustment process, it is also a matter of equity in sharing the burden of adjustment. let me say a few words about the outlook for european monetary union. prior to the crisis, member states did not internalise fully what it means to be part of a european monetary union. fiscal and economic policies were not sufficiently geared towards the conditions of being a member of a single currency zone. but the lessons of the crisis have been learnt. eu heads of state and government have taken action and strengthened the governance framework. the current deepening of emu is essential, in particular as regards banking union. it is of utmost importance that the legislation on the single supervision mechanism is finalised before the summer break, now that a political agreement has been found. this is an absolute prerequisite if we want to embark upon our preparatory work in a timely and effective fashion, so that the ssm is operational by mid-2014. equally important is the swift setting-up of a single resolution mechanism, the srm: a necessary complement to the ssm and a key element of banking union. the commission’s intention to put forward a legislative proposal before the summer is highly welcome. in the meantime, the directive on bank recovery and resolution will, hopefully, be adopted and will provide for a coherent eu-wide set of rules. deeper economic union means more than fixing the financial system. we therefore welcome the proposal to conduct ex-ante coordination of structural reform initiatives, which should be implemented as a best-practice benchmarking exercise. in the same vein, reform contracts, in which member states commit to concrete reforms with specific timelines, would also facilitate the recovery of competitiveness. but new rules are only as good as the commitment to actually implement them. it is of key importance that the existing legislation is applied forcefully during the ongoing european semester: this represents a true test of the credibility of the european monetary union’s governance framework. i thank you for your attention and stand at your disposal for questions.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms matias, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their very substantive work. the commission has confidence in the conduct of monetary policy by the ecb. we fully respect the ecb’s independence and do not comment on monetary policy in the euro area. the ecb has demonstrated its ability to react decisively during the crisis. within its mandate the ecb has played an active and important role and contributed to stabilising financial market conditions and reducing sovereign risk premiums. with the current low growth and high unemployment in europe, it is evident and essential that we intensify our joint work to create foundations for sustainable growth and job creation. let me comment on the issues addressed directly to the commission. first, the format and scope of publishing eurosystem balance sheet information is part of the operational framework of monetary policy and hence a matter for the ecb to decide. second, i fully agree with your call to urgently create a banking union for europe, as expressed in paragraph 41 of your report. you may ask why this goal is so important. it is because we need a counterforce to reverse the trend of financial fragmentation which is currently causing excessively tight credit conditions, especially in southern europe, thus blocking investment and economic growth in many parts of europe and hampering the creation of jobs in europe. the banking union is essential to reverse this process of financial fragmentation and thus to boost the flow of credit in order to enable economic recovery in europe. it will reinforce financial stability by ensuring more uniform and high-quality arrangements for the supervision and resolution of banks. it will further reinforce financial stability by diluting the link between banks and their national sovereigns. accordingly, the commission believes that the timeline for establishing a banking union should be as short as possible. with the agreement of the single supervisory mechanism, europe has recently taken a significant first step forward. we must now build on this progress and bring all the elements together. to this end, the various legislative proposals from the commission, including the proposed directive on bank resolution and, in parallel, the proposal on esm direct recapitalisation of banks, should be adopted as rapidly as possible. as president draghi said, the commission will present proposals for the creation of a single resolution mechanism before next summer. we are working intensively on the various substantive and technical aspects of this, including the appropriate legal base funding arrangements and ultimate backstops of the future single resolution mechanism. it is obvious that the banking union will not be built and completed overnight, but we must now create a clearly-defined perspective for the banking union and its elements with a correspondingly clear and specific timeline in order to move forward and achieve this essential objective for the economic stability and future of europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, colleagues, commissioner and president draghi, welcome to this parliament. you said last summer, president draghi, that the ecb is ready to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro, and that was enough. the markets believed you. yes, it was enough, and you saved the euro, the stock markets and the public debt markets and you became the man of the year. however, president draghi, now the situation is worsening and now we risk losing europe. in your last speech at the european council you also recognised that in some countries, bank credit to the real economy is falling sharply. we do not have monetary union if competitive smes in some member states have to close because credit is scarce and falling; we do not have monetary union if smes in some member states have to close because they pay between 4 and 8% more for a loan than similar smes in other parts of the euro zone, and this difference has become structural. the reality is that money has gone from the ecb to the banks to buy public debt. now, some insolvent banks and states are full of liquidity, but thousands of solvent smes are closing because of the lack of liquidity. it seems that the euro is more a currency board than a currency union. this is why the liberal group asks the ecb to create a programme to provide securitised loans to smes. this could restore the broken monetary policy transmission mechanism. what do you think, mr president? and a final question: a year ago this parliament approved, with a large majority, the european redemption fund as part of the two-pack: a partial and temporary mutualisation of public debt conditioned to fiscal discipline. but the council used its veto. some sort of eurobond would give the message to the financial markets that the euro is irreversible, and maybe the omt programme would not be needed. what do you think?
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the european central bank, you have on many occasions acknowledged that there is no proper transmission of monetary policy. mr draghi, the euro area liquidity transmission mechanism is broken: you will agree with me. smes in some member states cannot be financed, or are financed at excessively high costs compared to their counterparts in other member states. we have already discussed this on numerous occasions in the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament. mr draghi, you must act and ensure that european smes are financed on the basis of their economic situation and not on the basis of their geographical location. you can do it, mr. draghi, i've asked you many times. you have told me that 'there is no demand for solvent credit'; you have told me that 'reforms must be pursued'. i think there is beginning to be a demand for solvent credit, and some countries are making a great effort to reform and consolidate taxes. mr draghi, i am glad that you have recently decided to reflect on this. be brave and act, mr draghi. it has been in the past, and i encourage you to continue in that direction.
madam president, we discussed the role of the ecb in this excellent document by our dear colleague marisa matias. mr president of the european central bank, your words do not convince me as a political representative of my people. it is easy to speak from the seat of the ecb, but the people are suffering the tragic effects of the crisis, while wages are being lowered, public services are being reduced and austerity policies are being increased, destroying the social cohesion which was a sign of europe's identity! the role of the ecb must be re-examined because excessive rigor, such as having often exceeded its powers, is unacceptable. the argument that controlling inflation is impossible to reform, regardless of the serious consequences for peripheral economies, must be thrown out. it is also unacceptable to recommend labour rigidity to support public accounts, just as it is unacceptable to recommend a lack of transparency, a lack of democratic control and a lack of independence for the ecb. we have the opportunity for this parliament to play a critical role and finally give a response to this recessionary and austerity process.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i want to first of all thank you for a very serious and substantive debate on economic and monetary policy in europe. i want to reiterate the commission’s respect for the ecb’s independence. the task of the ecb is to strike the right balance between sometimes competing objectives within its mandate. i share the view of those like mr langen, mr goebbels and ms goulard and many others who have stressed the proactive and decisive role of the ecb in containing the crisis and returning to recovery. i will comment on two or three issues which fall directly under the commission’s competences, starting with the matter raised by some of the speakers, like mr eickhout, on macro-economic imbalances. in this field the commission is conducting a broad economic surveillance of imbalances and divergences in competitiveness, including the precise issue of private debt and the housing market situation in the netherlands, to which mr eickhout referred. in fact, this was one of the main policy issues for several countries when we presented 13 in-depth reviews on macroeconomic imbalances in the eu member states last week. i am very much looking forward to continuing the dialogue with the members of the econ committee next week, on 25 april. another current and crucial policy challenge relates to what mr tremosa i balcells said about the fact that the monetary policy transmission mechanism is not functioning properly today. without taking a strong stand on the steps that he proposes – since that would fall under the mandate of the ecb – the issue certainly calls for immediate action. indeed, we need to have as correct an analysis as possible of the reasons for the slower-than-anticipated economic growth in europe, and one has to ask what the primary problem is. i would place it for the moment in excessively-tight financing conditions for businesses and households, which are caused by the still-unfinished repairs to the financial system and banking sector. today’s liquidity trap is essentially a financing trap in europe. while the united states has, by and large, proceeded with financial repairs in 2008 and 2009, which was crucial to its recovery, this process in europe has still only been partially achieved. this is working as a major drag on our return to full recovery. that is why we need banking union and why we need to complete the repairs to the financial sector in order to unblock private investment for better employment. this is not about bailing out bankers. it is about letting credit flow to create growth and jobs. and this is why we need to increase the use of public banks like the european investment bank to boost pro-active investment, as has already been done to an extent. i leave it, of course, to president draghi and the governing council of the ecb to see what the ecb can do about this very crucial problem, which is very important for economic growth and job creation in europe. mr feio referred to the portuguese programme. i want to draw your attention to the very important agreement reached last friday/saturday in the informal ecofin group on the extension of the ecb loan maturities for ireland and portugal by seven years. this is another very important step towards a sustained return to full market financing and towards an exit from the programme for both countries, ireland and portugal. there was a question on deposits put by several honourable members. i just want to make it very clear that the commission’s position on deposit insurance is rock solid. secured deposits are secured, must be secured and will remain secured.
president of the european central bank. − madam president, i also want to thank the members of the european parliament for their substantive debate. many of the points which were made will certainly be considered by me and by the governing council in future deliberations. i also want to thank vice-president rehn for his remarks. it is very difficult for me to respond to all of the points, but i will try to summarise some of the key points. how has the ecb done within its mandate? its mandate is to keep price stability and, through this, to support the economy, maintain confidence and protect the poor. the ecb throughout its existence has delivered on price stability in a remarkable fashion. secondly, faced with exceptional circumstances last year, the ecb took extraordinary measures to face these circumstances, but always within its mandate. the omt especially proved to be a very effective backstop against speculation and unfounded fears about the continuing existence of the euro which created self-fulfilling expectations. how has it done since then? firstly, target 2 balances have decreased by 25% since their peak just before the announcement, which means that the risk to taxpayers of the creditor countries has gone down. secondly, there is much less fragmentation than there was before. let me say that there has been considerable progress in improving the funding situation of banks, in strengthening their domestic deposit base – especially in stressed countries – and in reducing reliance on the euro system. thirdly, almost half – actually more than half – of the net injection of the ltro last year has been repaid. i cannot forget the concerns which many people addressed to the ecb about the gigantic risk that we were running with the ltro. where are these risks? however, i completely agree with you that all this effort has first of all prevented major disasters from occurring. secondly, it has largely improved financing conditions for the economies, but this has barely been passed on to the real economy. there are reasons why banks do not lend to their clients: the first is that they lack funding; the second is that they lack capital; and the third is that, even though they have funding and capital, they are fearful of lending because they think they are not going to be repaid. we have thoroughly addressed the first concern, which is funding. we cannot address the second and third concerns. we are not in the business of cleaning up struggling banks; we cannot solve deep-rooted problems in the structure of europe’s economies, and we have to be quite clear about this. the ecb cannot do everything for everybody at all times. however, as i have said many times before, we continue to think about this. we continue to work on this problem – within our mandate – but it is quite clear that it is not a matter of courage but a matter of doing the right thing. frankly, the example of other countries is not encouraging. the attempts that have been made are not producing satisfactory outcomes in many, many situations. so the issue here is to do the right thing that has some chance of being effective. it is quite clear here that other actors – namely the national governments, the eib and even national central banks – must play their role, as vice-president rehn has reminded us. so we will continue to work on this problem. please believe me that we have not forgotten its importance. it is absolutely essential. now let me say something about adjustment in the euro area and why we are talking about this. let me be very clear: growth is essential. without growth, there is no price stability that is sustainable in the long term; without growth, there is no financial stability that is sustainable in the long term. so the message here is as follows: do not unravel the progress that many countries have made, because it has been truly remarkable in this period. there has also been a very strong improvement of structural primary balances since 2009. problem countries are benefiting from a significant improvement in their cost competitiveness, but that is the other secondary consideration. fiscal consolidations are contractionary in the short term, so the right question is not how to avoid them – they are unavoidable – because building on debt brings neither growth nor equity. there cannot be growth or equity that is sustainable in the long term through debt creation, so fiscal consolidation remains unavoidable. however, it can be very effectively mitigated. the first way out of this is to increase competitiveness. increased competitiveness is the only way now of mitigating this fiscal consolidation. i was asked about what i said at the european council. i said you have two groups of countries here: you have the countries with low budget deficits, relatively strong financial sectors and relatively good current account surpluses. then you have countries where it is the other way round: high budget deficits, weak financial sectors and big current account deficits. the only way out is to build a bridge. in the two groups of countries, you look at the behaviour and nominal wages versus productivity and you see that in some countries – in the so-called first group of countries – they display similar behaviour for a certain number of years, and in other countries they just diverge. i have said that i am not giving prescriptions of any kind, but fill the gap. fill the gap between nominal wage behaviour and productivity. the third point is that nowadays it has been ascertained that fiscal consolidations that are based on current expenditure reduction are less contractionary than fiscal consolidations based on tax increases. let me say something on cyprus. i agree completely with what vice-president rehn said before. there are some lessons that we can draw from cyprus. first of all, we had to have the ssm in place as soon as possible. i am pleased that political agreement has been found between the european parliament and the council, and obviously i fully respect this agreement. the draft legislation is broadly balanced and will allow us to perform our tasks in an effective and independent manner. also i welcome the fact that ecofin was able to solve the remaining issues. i hope that the formal adoption of the ssm legislation can take place before the summer break. this would allow internal preparations to proceed at full speed. that is the first lesson. there is no question that more community and european oversight in the banking systems of the member states can only do good, and for a variety of fairly obvious reasons. secondly, all banks should have pre-resolution buffers. they should have not only higher capital rates but buffers of different kinds that could be used and accessed before they are resolved. thirdly, the thing that gives the impression that different situations in different parts of the euro area are being resolved in an ad hoc manner is that ex ante rules are not in place yet. in this sense, i certainly welcome the work of the commission. the ecb wishes to have these rules put in place by 2018 or 2019, but possibly as early as 2015. there is an issue here about the depositor preferences, and our view is that the more this new legislation resembles what exists in other financial jurisdictions, the better it is. more generally, the more oversized a banking sector is with respect to the economy where its banks reside, the more conservatively the banks have to be supervised. therefore higher levels of capital, higher buffers and more conservative government budgets are required in such countries. that, in a sense, is one of the lessons that we draw from cyprus. on accountability – i have said this many times – i stand for the highest standards of accountability. the ecb is strongly committed to ensuring and preserving a high degree of transparency. i think i have probably addressed most of the questions on the list.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as the person responsible for analysing the management of parliament's resources in the financial year 2011, my objective is obviously this. the european parliament, the heart of democracy in europe and the representative of more than 500 million citizens, must be the first to show them the scrupulous control with which it implements its expenditure. the 1 686 million euro earmarked for the development of parliament's activities must be used with the greatest possible zeal, always. but if the economic situation is one of deep economic crisis and requires rationalization and adjustment of spending by citizens and states, we cannot afford to have a single euro spent inefficiently. it is not just a matter of sound financial management but also of conscience and great responsibility. in addition, the budgetary management of the european union's resources must be transparent and accountable. i believe that with the report we are debating today we have made further positive progress not only in this need for transparency but also in the deepening of other measures, in order to achieve smart savings which consist not only in budgetary adjustments but also in being more efficient with less, a matter which should not undermine the activity we must develop. the result is savings of some 40 million euros already in the last year, achieved through a combination of rationalising tasks, and consequently spending, and using the resources at our disposal more efficiently. to give an example, i would like to point out how the internalisation of the european parliament's security services will reduce the cost of this service by more than eur 11 million between 2013 and 2016 and by some eur 600 000 annually from that year onwards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the european elections. however, although we very much welcome the efforts to improve management - which, as i have said, are producing positive results - the report i am presenting today shows that there is still room for improvement in the management of the part of the budget which is allocated to the european parliament. this is what the internal auditor has pointed out to us in his annual report, which stresses the need to continue working on better planning in some of the directorates-general of this institution, in order to avoid that poor or poor planning leads to having to resort, more than desired, to extraordinary negotiating processes, for example. ladies and gentlemen, never, but least of all in these difficult times, can we allow the use of resources to be suboptimal. planning is now more important than ever, and so is the need for all public procurement procedures to be even clearer and more transparent, and to avoid, as far as possible, excessive reliance on external procurement, which unduly increases the cost of services. we must find the right balance between security, cost and parliamentary control. and although the report is concerned with reviewing the implementation of the european parliament's budget in 2011, it is inevitable that some issues affecting the daily functioning of this house will be included, even if they are not strictly linked to this exercise. analyzing the present situation allows us to improve in the future.
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, in the committee on foreign affairs we have tried to tackle this exercise of discharge by always seeking to make the european union's foreign policy more effective, more visible, more coherent and, of course, more effective. and in this context we have taken note of the information which the court of auditors has given us, namely that no material errors in the implementation of the budget were detected in this first year. i think that is a positive motive that should be highlighted. we have also found, on the basis of the court of auditors' report, that there are indeed some shortcomings in the area of public tenders and the award of contracts which should be resolved as soon as possible. the mechanisms for delegating expenditure and the synergies between the commission and the diplomatic services of the member states should also be improved in order to have a truly effective diplomatic service and a foreign policy worthy of the name. in any case, mr president, we must ensure that the material resources correspond to the political priorities of the european union, to the availability of economic means and also to the needs on the ground.
mr president, i also thank mr gerbrandy for all his work and for his ability to incorporate the comments and amendments proposed by the various alternative rapporteurs. and i also welcome the council's presence in this debate. it is the first time that he has responded to our demands and, of course, i thank him. i would like to express my satisfaction with the good results achieved in this case by the agencies. this year the court of auditors has only issued one reserve and the committee on budgetary control has only temporarily postponed the discharge of another. the truth is that these agencies do not only carry out the tasks that we all ask of them and that all the institutions require of them, but they also function in each member state as sectoral embassies of the european union. there are 30 for 27 member states and 7 joint undertakings. i mean, it's not crazy either. to those who are now tearing their clothes and criticising the risks of conflict of interest, i would simply say that the creation of these agencies is the result of a mechanism created with a certain perversity by themselves, by those who criticise them most fiercely, from an ideology which proposes to outsource continuously and without limits the tasks which should largely be carried out by a good and efficient european public administration which is precisely responsible for defending the common european interest, as is the case with the current institutions and their sacrificed and not always well defended staff: officials, contractors, etc. the outsourcing of all kinds of increasingly complex and expert tasks which this parliament and, above all, the council, demand from the commission, produces those agencies to which the commission itself often refuses to share management instruments which would reduce their costs and which are being opened up without much preparation or precedent either in the fight against conflicts of interest or in the management and coordination in the context of european construction and enlargement. if, instead of integrating aeronautical engineers into the staff of the european institutions, we outsource the tasks of european aviation safety to an agency, contrary to what the federal agency in the united states does, then we cannot be surprised that it is necessary to deal with situations of risk of conflicts of interest. fortunately, the agencies themselves have been building their strategy. it is true that this will now be accelerated thanks to parliament and also to the instruments made available by the commission and in the future road map. we also acknowledge the good functioning of the internal coordination network which they have spontaneously set up. and we do not believe that it is really useful to promote accelerated mergers for economic reasons without taking account of the difference between human rights and equality between men and women. and i would just like to say to mrs gräßle that when she sometimes identifies countries by the 'name and shame', i would also like to have a discussion with her about the latest complaint we have had about the misuse of the structural funds in germany. i wish we could communicate that, too.
member of the court of auditors. − mr president, i would like to thank members for this wide-ranging and constructive debate. making progress requires the rigorous exchange of ideas. i see that eliminating errors, cutting waste and improving the efficiency with which eu funds are used are a common concern. the debate also provided valuable food for thought for the court of auditors. i would also like to thank mr czarnecki for his report on the court. the court, when embarking on the implementation of its new strategy, feels encouraged by both the praise and criticism found in that report. similar thanks must be extended to mr geier and several of today’s speakers who asked for further development of the work of the court. resource constraints might frustrate our response as far as more specific assessments are concerned, also keeping in mind that, according to you yourselves, the court needs to prioritise high-quality and timely performance audit reports. the court will continue to do its best when responding to the needs of european taxpayers in informing them of the quality of eu spending. finally, i respect the commission and the council for their acceptance of our criticism and their enthusiasm today about streamlining and simplifying their future spending schemes.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for the open and very constructive debate. it demonstrates that even if progress has been achieved, more work has to be done to further improve the management of eu funds, both at eu and national levels. the good cooperation between our three institutions is an essential precondition to actually achieving improvements where needed. the discussion today pointed to some areas where further efforts are needed. i would like to refer to some comments made during this debate. bart staes and others raised the issue of offshore leaks and tax fraud and evasion. i completely agree that this is a very important subject where we have to use this political opportunity and make substantive progress. the point here is that the proposals from the commission which need to be adopted are on the council’s table, be they the amendment of the savings directive, the mandate to negotiate with switzerland, swift implementation of the administrative cooperation directive or an action plan to fight aggressive tax planning and tax havens. now we have this window of opportunity, and i am looking forward to the efficient work of the irish presidency and a demonstration by member states that they translate political language into practical action. here i will need that for sure. many of you raised the issue of agencies and potential problems of conflicts of interest. i would like to remind you that the interinstitutional working group chaired by jutta haug adopted a common approach last year and the commission presented a road map for implementation last december. that work includes measures to improve the prevention of conflicts of interest in agencies. regarding the dalli case, only one thing. the olaf report is with the maltese judicial authorities. they are the ones who will decide whether or not to make it public in the interests of their action. and i would like to take advantage of this opportunity to invite this house to adopt a long-lasting reform of olaf which will lead to substantial progress in the future activity of olaf. we know that ms gräßle has invested a lot of effort in order to reach the compromise, and i think it would be a pity if we postponed adoption of the reform, which is badly needed. many of you raised the issue of public procurement, and it is true that in this area we find a lot of errors. here i think it is very important that we swiftly adopt the commission’s proposals on new public procurement rules, which will allow us to simplify the procedures and at the same time ensure much better control of public procurement procedures. apart from the four priority actions, the discharge report on which you will vote tomorrow includes many more aspects and requests to the commission covering all policy areas. as in previous years, the commission will report on the implementation of every single request made by this house. and as some actions have already been taken by the commission, we will even be able to report on significant progress in some areas before the summer break. i can assure you that protection of the eu budget on the one hand, and good performance of our programmes on the other, are the most determining factors in eu financial management. the commission is committed to achieving improvements in both regards. as we speak, the interinstitutional discussions on the sector-related regulations for the financial framework 2014 to 2020 are still ongoing. the co-legislators still have an opportunity to promote sound financial management principles and simplification in this context. it is now up to you, the legislative authorities, to decide to what extent these elements will actually be reflected in the legislation for the next financing period.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank you very much for a very constructive and very open debate. i would particularly like to congratulate and thank our rapporteurs for their forensic and detailed reports to this parliament. as a member of a parliament myself, the fundamental political task of any parliamentarian is to hold governments to account and to ensure that public monies which are spent are scrutinised in a way to achieve objectives. i want to assure you that the council is at one with this parliament in ensuring that monies that are spent on behalf of the european union are spent in an efficient, appropriate way. this is an important political debate and a circumstance where our union is going through a very difficult economic phase. it is important that we continue to make progress and improvements year on year in reducing the error rate and making sure that the expenditure that is voted through this parliament and to the commission is expenditure that achieves its objectives. we agree with you in terms of improvements that have to be made. while the trend in the error rate has reduced in recent years, it is still too high and we need to see further progress there. but when one looks at the progress that has been made in the most recent programme in comparison to the previous programme, progress has been made. i would also re-echo the point that has been made in this parliament that we cannot assume that an error rate is the fraud rate. i think colleagues have spoken about the disparity between both. it is also worth saying that 2011, on which this report is based, is two years ago, and improvements have been made since then. this should also be recognised. i would like finally to say this on the question of the council discharge. the irish presidency is open to continuing our dialogue with this parliament on making progress in this area. we have had a good initial discussion, but it is only honest to say that this has been a long-standing issue between council and parliament. but we will continue to work with parliament to ensure that progress can be made and to work out a solution on this. finally i would like to say this: we are not complacent as a council. we agree with you that progress must continue to be made, and we want to work with you to ensure that we improve the way in which expenditure is carried out and the way in which expenditure is accounted for in terms of achieving our common objectives. this can only be achieved by greater dialogue, consensus and agreement, and i hope we will see this as the years progress. thank you very much indeed, mr president.
the council has already taken a decision on the matter. i think it is very important to greet the court of auditors as well and, above all, to thank them for the enrichment of the debate by the contributions made by way of amendment. i would also like to thank, above all, the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have been involved in this whole work since october: the directorates-general, the secretary-general, the secretariat, as well as the support staff of my group, and all those who have collaborated. i think it is fair to highlight it, because it has been a very important work, and without all of them it would be impossible to vote on the report tomorrow. i believe that parliament - as the only democratically elected institution - should be the first to set an example of transparency, efficiency and effectiveness. the european citizen's confidence in our good work is fundamental for all of us; we must not lose sight of it, especially in these times. in conclusion, i would like to thank all of you for your cooperation in producing a report which i believe is consensual, balanced and quite realistic, and which will enable us to make further progress in the sound management of the resources at our disposal. nothing is perfect, we have to keep improving, but the level is very acceptable.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would like, as the first speaker, to be the first to congratulate my colleague monika hohlmeier on the work she has done so far and to wish her the best of luck in the task ahead. i think that the rapporteur, mrs hohlmeier, has so far achieved an acceptable degree of consensus between the political forces, because the budget of the european parliament must be a model budget, a budget which, in a certain way, is an indication for the rest of the budgets which depend on the european union. it must be a transparent budget, it must be an effective budget and it must be an austere budget. i think that what mrs hohlmeier is saying is perfectly in line with these conditions, as it has been in the past. it is a budget which must be accessible to all citizens, it must provide the best quality of legislative work - because we are here as members to produce legislation - and it must be a budget which is in keeping with the times, that is to say, a budget which cannot be increased, but must be frozen and reduced in the items which can be reduced. this is what the citizens are going to see. that is why it is very important that in this last year of the legislature, which is a very complicated year, in which there are legal obligations that must be met in the budget, we find - as mrs hohlmeier suggests - new areas in which the necessary savings can be made so that, in the end, parliament's budget does not exceed what we, as european public representatives, must approve.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, in this debate i am standing in for cecilia malmström, my colleague, with whom i work very closely. i find this subject very important, as i also have had some experience in the past of visa facilitation agreements with the western balkans, where they have worked, to my mind, very well in advancing the mobility of people and european values. the signature of the upgraded visa facilitation agreement between the eu and ukraine in july last year was an important step towards smoother mobility of people between the eu and ukraine. once it enters into force, the upgraded agreement will facilitate people-to-people contacts by making it easier, cheaper and quicker to obtain short-stay schengen visas and by facilitating the issuing of long-term multiple-entry visas. the commission is very pleased to see the plenary proceeding with the ratification procedure, the committees on foreign affairs and on civil liberties, justice and home affairs having given their support to parliament’s consent with overwhelmingly favourable votes. there are no doubts that this agreement will help bring closer the citizens of ukraine to the eu. i would like to thank the rapporteur, claude moraes, for the excellent cooperation with the commission on this dossier. on 22 march, ukraine’s verkhovna rada ratified the agreement, and on 8 april, president yanukovych signed the law on the ratification of this agreement. therefore it is now up to the eu to complete the ratification procedure. this new agreement introduces many important facilitations, the most important of which include a significant limitation on the current discretion of consuls when deciding on the term of validity of multiple-entry visas; the issue, in principle, of five-year multiple-entry visas to various elected and administrative and judicial officials, to the spouses and children aged under 21 of eu citizens or people who have a valid residence permit in one of the member states, and to businessmen and representatives of business entities who regularly visit eu member states; and facilitation of the procedure for the issue of a visa for drivers engaged in international cargo and passenger transportation and journalists and technical staff accompanying them. visa facilitation will also be introduced for representatives of civil society organisations for certain purposes. finally, the number of categories of persons benefiting from visa fee waivers was enlarged. this allows me to stress that the proposed visa facilitations are clearly not a gift to the government but are addressed to the ukrainian population at large. as regards civil rights, the commission is strongly committed to the defence of human rights. this includes people who face discrimination on various grounds, including their sexual orientation or gender identity. we also condemn every expression of homophobia and transphobia, which we consider as unacceptable violations of human rights. in this context the european union has called on ukraine to adopt comprehensive legislation on anti-discrimination, as recommended by the united nations and the council of europe’s monitoring bodies, in order to ensure effective protection against discrimination.
mr president, i support mr moraes. since the entry into force of the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas between the union and ukraine on 1 january 2008, we have seen how both sides have benefited from its signature. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the schengen acquis to the territory of the member states. the european neighbourhood policy aims to avoid the emergence of new dividing lines between the enlarged union and our neighbours and to consolidate stability and security, as well as well-being for all. this has been the understanding since it was outlined in march 2003 in the commission's communication on a wider europe, and the step we are taking today is part of that political action, moving forward in the mutual commitment to the common values: democracy, human rights, human rights reitero, the rule of law, good governance and the principles of market economy and sustainable development. the amendment we are discussing today is a substantial improvement on the existing agreement, making progress on the objectives contained in the bilateral action plan with ukraine, and this is what the libe and afet committees have understood, which have given their approval almost unanimously. it is good to facilitate the entry of new categories of citizens into our territory. in other cases and in this one we have seen the benefits of these decisions. in any case, let us not forget that if at any time there is abuse or misuse of the exemption, we have general mechanisms, such as reciprocity or suspension, currently under discussion and negotiation in the libe committee, as well as those contained in this agreement. for all these reasons, i support mr moraes. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. madam, i think i can easily answer by saying that i too defend, without any reservations, homosexuals, lesbians and anyone, regardless of their condition or orientation. that's my commitment.
mr president, commissioner almunia, it is good that you are here in this house to give an account of this new regulation because, as long as the negotiating process is open, there are possibilities for changing cohesion policy and we are in time to resolve those risks that many colleagues are talking about. this cohesion policy is undoubtedly more important than ever in this time of crisis, of economic crisis, of financial crisis. we in our group are certainly very concerned about the limitation of aid to convergence regions and to companies with more than 250 employees and a turnover of more than eur 250 million. how is this possible if the majority - 90% of all european enterprises - are small and mediumsized enterprises with fewer than 50 employees? we are also concerned about this cross-border issue, and also about equal treatment. let us take an example that you are well aware of, because of the many conversions, the limitations on state aid, and also other issues such as relocations, as in the case of galicia, which, by statistical effect, you know very well that it can be considered a rich territory, when in reality it is poor. poor in the sense of the situation of youth emigration and high unemployment rates, as in a large part of the spanish state. we must therefore avoid the statistical effect of considering certain territories rich when, in reality, they are poor.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank you and the house for your indulgence. i have to accompany my president to a meeting with your president in a couple of minutes so that is why i have asked to take the floor slightly early. i think, however, that i have a very good sense of the broad spectrum of views here in the chamber and i think i can draw possibly two very strong messages. one is the very clear need to proceed with the commitment of last june’s council to break the link between bank debt and sovereign debt. the second is to continue with our resolve to implement our commitments in respect of banking union. from our point of view as irish presidency – obviously i am speaking on behalf of the council but, i think it is fair to say, also as an irish minister having experienced our own involvement with the troika in the last number of years – it is absolutely essential that we now press ahead with the banking union’s other proposed elements, such as the recovery-in-resolution mechanism for banks, a europe-wide resolution fund and the joint deposit guarantee scheme, and we need to accelerate that process. certainly from our point of view we stand ready to cooperate and work intensively with the european parliament on these proposals during the remainder of our presidency. these measures are quite clearly absolutely essential to ensure the long-term stability of our financial sector, which is of course a prerequisite for growth, which in turn is a prerequisite for job creation. clearly there are no easy solutions to the current crisis but there are very logical steps that we can take – and indeed that we must take in order to rebuild the european economy – and i think that is our common cause and that is our joint agenda. so i look forward very much to working towards this objective with colleagues from the european parliament, well into the future beyond the irish presidency of the european union. again, president, i would like to thank you for your indulgence in allowing me to conclude slightly early.
mr president, cyprus is a small country and so is the bailout, but the impact of this episode affects the whole of the eu at the worst possible time. more and more citizens are angry with their institutions. it's a disaster with no palliatives. firstly, we have the impression that we are not following our rules, because savings are blocked and are being withdrawn; secondly, the decision is being reversed and there is the impression of thoughtlessness and rashness; and thirdly, the communication policy is a disaster without any remedies, it is a disaster. it is said that a precedent is being set and that our savings are no longer safe. the consequences are real: the risk premium in countries in difficulty is increased by 150 basis points the following week, adding to the burden of debt interest. someone has to pay when the mistakes are so serious: the ministers who sit around the ecofin and, of course, the president of the eurogroup, who should be dismissed by those who appointed them.
mr president, in the spanish version it is eurojust instead of eurostat, that should be changed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it provides a true account of the commission's management with many criticisms of the role it played in 2011. the production of quality information is a key tool for effective control of the european institutions by the european parliament. support for the preparation of these reports is essential for improving the transparency and control of european public administration. although i voted against the discharge, i consider this report to be a step forward in critically exposing the role of the commission in the use of its funds. i have voted in favour of this report because of all that this means for the responsible management of public funds at european level.
in writing. - as regards amendments nos 32, 33 and 35, i share the concern about the high unemployment rates which such desperation creates in the population, but i do not share the uncompromising condemnation of the adjustment policies or the causal link which the amendments denounce between the work of the commission and the unemployment figures. as for amendment no 34, i voted against it because it is a very superficial historical analysis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it provides a detailed source of information which improves our understanding of the commission's management. the use of information from all the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the commission by the european parliament. these special reports submitted by the court of auditors help to make a prudent assessment of the commission's performance of its duties. including all the institutions involved in the control of european funds in analysing the responsible and efficient use of union resources is the only way to achieve a european union without corruption problems. i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a good source of information on the management and role of the institution to which i belong as a member of parliament in 2011. the development of quality information is a key tool for effective control by the european parliament. support for the preparation of these reports is essential for improving the transparency and control of european public administration. although i was unable to vote in favour of the discharge, i consider this report to be a step forward in critically exposing the role of the european parliament in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds at european level, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - to clarify a little more the meaning of my vote, i would like to add that the bureau of parliament must take all the necessary measures to complete the safeguards ensuring the absolute transparency of members' incomes and expenditure, and thus to face the next legislature with this objective achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it provides a detailed source of information on the management of the european development funds and the role they played throughout 2011. the production of quality information is a key tool for effective control of the european institutions by the european parliament. support for the preparation of these reports is essential for improving the transparency and control of european public administration. in this case, i also voted in favour of the discharge itself because of the importance of these funds. the european development funds are a tool for multiple projects in developing countries and this report ensures that they are well managed. i have voted in favour of this report because of what it means for the developing countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european council and the council in 2011. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. support for the preparation of these reports is essential for improving the transparency and control of european public administration. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european council and the council in the use of their funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds at european level, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the court of justice of the european union in 2011. the report states that the management of the institution has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. support for the preparation of these reports is essential for improving the transparency and control of european public administration. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the court of justice in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the court of auditors of the european union in 2011. the report states that the management of the institution has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the report supports a comprehensive control, which improves the transparency and control of european public administration. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the court of auditors in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european economic and social committee in 2011. the report states that the management of the institution has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the parts of this institution, which improves the transparency and control of european public administration. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european economic and social committee in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the committee of the regions in 2011. the report states that the management of the institution has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the parts of this institution, which improves the transparency and control of european public administration. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the committee of the regions in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european ombudsman in 2011. the report states that the management of the institution has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the parts of this institution, which improves the transparency and control of european public administration. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european ombudsman in the use of his funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european data protection supervisor in 2011. the report states that the management of the institution has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the parts of this institution, which improves the transparency and control of european public administration. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european data protection supervisor in the use of his funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european external action service in 2011. this report argues that during the 2011 management the external service has had some shortcomings, such as many absences in different delegations of the european union and some non-compliance. that is why i voted against the discharge. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the parts of this institution, which improves the transparency and control of european public administration. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european external action service in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role played in 2011 by the different decentralised agencies of the european union. the report states that the management of these agencies has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of these agencies, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the different eu agencies in the use of their funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of this agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing regulations. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of that body, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in 2011. this report states that the management of the centre has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing regulations. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items in the centre, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european centre for the development of vocational training in 2011. the report states that the centre has been run in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all items in the centre, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european centre for the development of vocational training in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european aviation safety agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i think this report is a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european aviation safety agency in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european banking authority in 2011. this report states that the management of the authority has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of that authority, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european banking authority in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european centre for disease prevention and control in 2011. this report states that the centre has been run in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all items in the centre, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european chemicals agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european chemicals agency in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european environment agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of this agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european environment agency in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european fisheries control agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i think this report is a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european fisheries control agency in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european food safety authority in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european food safety authority in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european institute for gender equality in 2011. this report states that the management of the institute has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing regulations. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of this institute, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european institute for gender equality in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in 2011. this report states that the management of the authority has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of that authority, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european institute of innovation and technology in 2011. this report states that the management of the institute has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing regulations. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of this institute, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european institute of innovation and technology in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european medicines agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european medicines agency in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in 2011. this report states that the observatory has been run in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all items in the observatory, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european maritime safety agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european maritime safety agency in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european network and information security agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european network and information security agency in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this technical report on section i (parliament) expenditure, which is conditional on the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. this report projects the first draft of the budget that the ep will have for the year 2014. the budget estimated in this report for parliament would represent a reduction of approximately 2,86% of the budget of this institution for 2013. this reduction in the midst of the economic crisis is fully justified, but in the absence of a definitive version of the multiannual financial framework, any decision taken has no real effect on the future budget. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. several of our (greens/efa) amendments were adopted. furthermore, the text insists that, in the current climate of austerity, long-term investments such as parliament’s building projects need to be handled prudently and transparently; it insists on strict cost management, project planning and supervision; it reiterates its call for a transparent decision-making process in the field of buildings policy based on early information; it recalls parliament’s request in its resolution of 16 february 2012 on the guidelines for the 2013 budget procedure for precise information on the progress of buildings projects and for its financial implication to be provided every six months, and parliament’s statement that no new unforeseen building projects should be undertaken until the end of the current legislature.
in writing. - i voted against this report, maintaining my position on the monetary policies being pursued by the troika in the member states. this report deals with financial 'bailouts' to countries outside the single currency. as this is an approval procedure, the text could not be amended during its preparation, so that this type of mechanism, which is fundamental for the union, is being developed without the slightest political diversity in its preparation. the report seeks to formulate the mechanisms for future 'financial rescues' in the countries of the european union not using the euro. the report seeks to ensure the "adoption of a macroeconomic adjustment programme" in any country receiving financial assistance from the union to ensure the economic plundering of the working classes in countries accepting such "bailouts" to guarantee debt repayment. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − in favour. the underlying balance of payment proposal is in essence a welcome initiative to streamline procedures in financial assistance between the euro area and the non-euro area. some modifications and additions are, however, needed, and these are outlined in this interim report. the interim report is drafted as, regrettably, under the present procedure parliament can only approve or reject the final proposal for a regulation and has no possibility to make amendments to its substance. moreover, following the initial proposal of 22 june 2012 (com(2012)0388), the commission is now due to update the bop proposal based on the provisional agreement in the gauzès report of the two-pack, where financial assistance procedures for the euro area are specified. however, this update is not due to happen through an updated proposal, but changes are to be directly integrated into the final text due to be adopted by the council. against this background, it is therefore all the more important that parliament’s position is outlined in a transparent manner in the interest of basic democratic legitimacy and of achieving a positive outcome on the final text of the regulation.
mr president, i voted in favour of this annual report on the activities of the european central bank in 2011 because i share the view that this body must increase its functions in the future in order to be able to complete the reforms we need to have real financial supervision and economic governance in the euro area. i particularly appreciate the warnings against austerity as the only mantra to overcome the crisis, and i fully share the need for the european central bank to use its authority to force financial institutions to strongly support productive economy operations, especially those that are innovative and therefore part of the 2020 growth scheme. i also agree that the european central bank must do more to prevent the vicious circle in which some countries of the south are caught from creating, among its consequences, a competitive disadvantage for all their productive sectors because of the scandalous difference in the cost of money they incur compared to their competitors in the north. finally, i welcome the regional sensitivity of a report which, for the first time, refers to regions with fiscal and tax powers, a line which must be deepened, and i also welcome the call to incorporate gender equality in an institution which, like the troika, i hope will agree with this house that it must improve a great deal in transparency.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, despite the original orientation of the rapporteur's text, the amendments introduced during the process have turned the report into a mere justification for austerity policy. the report is unacceptable from any point of view: celebrating the ecb's role during 2011 and 2012, in which millions of europeans have been impoverished, is an exercise in cynicism against the countries of southern europe and against the very notion of the european union. the report also calls for fiscal consolidation as the only way to generate growth in the eurozone, which is tantamount to putting austerity ahead of any different economic policies that would allow europe to grow and not be the world's slowest growing region. these austerity policies which the report advocates make it a mere propaganda document which will not change the direction of economic policy. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − although i initially voted against (by mistake), i immediately corrected the vote into abstention (see correction of votes). the report concerns the activities of the ecb in 2011. following amendments inserted by the right-wing epp group which crossed several of the rapporteur’s red lines, the final version of the report does not include provisions for the accountability of the ecb as a member of the troika. similarly, no reference to the ecb’s gains from the adjustment programmes is set to be included. however, the report still retained several of the ideas contained in the initial report, such as conditionality for banks, the transparency of the ecb, the strengthening of the european budget, the objectives of growth and employment and criticism of recessionary policies such as the slashing of public spending.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european railway agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european railway agency in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european securities and markets authority in 2011. this report states that the management of this authority has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of that authority, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european securities and markets authority in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european training foundation in 2011. this report states that the foundation has been run in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the foundation, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european training foundation in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european agency for safety and health at work in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european agency for safety and health at work in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the euratom supply agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the euratom supply agency in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in 2011. this report states that the foundation has been run in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the foundation, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) in 2011. this report states that the management of this unit has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing regulations. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all items in the unit, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of eurojust in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because the harmonization of the value added tax system, although it contains certain points which increase legal certainty in the case of bonds, may be the gateway to homogenizing vat rates, as the commission intends. the taxation of such bonds varies between the member states of the european union and their harmonization would improve the legal certainty of such instruments. however, maintaining the diversity of tax policies in the different member states is essential to adapt economic policy to the conditions of production systems. i have therefore not been able to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the vat directives do not contain rules on the treatment of vouchers. uncertainty about the correct tax treatment of voucher transactions may be problematic for cross-border transactions and for chain transactions. since no eu rules exist, member states’ actions have resulted in mismatches in taxation potentially generating double or non-taxation. therefore, the commission aims to clarify and harmonise rules in eu legislation on the vat treatment of vouchers with respect to following points: defining vouchers for vat purposes; time of taxation; rules for distribution; discount vouchers; other technical or consequential changes. these are key points for our group. the greens support the proposal and the slightly stronger anti-tax evasion language provided by the committee.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european police office (europol) in 2011. this report states that the management of europol has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items in europol, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of europol in the use of its funds. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european union agency for fundamental rights in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting the role of the european union agency for fundamental rights in a critical and truthful way. i have voted in favour of this report because of all that this means for the responsible management of public funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role played in 2011 by the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex). although i voted against the discharge, because i do not share the role and objectives of the agency, i voted in favour of the report. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting the role of frontex in a critical and truthful way. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european gnss agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items of the agency, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting the role of the european gnss agency in a critical and truthful way. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the artemis joint undertaking in 2011. this report states that the management of this joint undertaking has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a comprehensive control over all items of the artemis joint undertaking, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting the role of the artemis joint undertaking in a critical and truthful way. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the clean sky joint undertaking in 2011. this report states that the management of this joint undertaking has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a comprehensive control over all items of this joint undertaking, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting the role of the clean sky joint undertaking in a critical and truthful way. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the eniac joint undertaking in 2011. the report states that the management of the joint venture has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a comprehensive control over all items of this joint undertaking, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting the role of the eniac joint undertaking in a critical and truthful way. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in 2011. this report states that the management of this joint undertaking has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a thorough control over all the items in the enterprise, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting the role of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in a critical and truthful way. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking in 2011. this report states that the management of this joint undertaking has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a comprehensive control over all items of this joint undertaking, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting the role of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking in a critical and truthful way. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in 2011. this report states that the management of this joint undertaking has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a comprehensive control over all items of this joint undertaking, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − against. contrary to what we have done regarding the other discharge reports, this time we voted against granting the discharge for (i hope) obvious reasons. we, the greens/efa, firmly oppose the existence of iter.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the sesar joint undertaking in 2011. this report states that the management of this joint undertaking has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules. the preparation of good reports investigating the management of the institutions is a fundamental tool for effective control of the institutions. the rapporteur maintains a comprehensive control over all items of this joint undertaking, which improves the transparency and control of european public agencies. i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting the role of the sesar joint undertaking in a critical and truthful way. for all that this means for the responsible management of public funds, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in defending the right to food of children and other family members who are legally dependent on a person. with the globalization of communication and social relations, new family realities have begun to emerge, such as the numerous international families and couples, formed by spouses from different countries. in the event of divorce or any other event which ends the family unit, the spouses, parents or relatives, even if they live in another country, continue to be obliged to provide for the child or the corresponding family member in each case. this convention seeks to put an end to situations of injustice which are based on the international division of judicial systems. i voted in favour of this report in order to maintain the protection of the food of children and other family members.
in writing. − in favour. the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance of 23 november 2007 is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides for a mechanism under which child support obligations can be applied for and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. parliament has already approved the convention, which was signed on behalf of the european union on 6 april 2011. however, for the convention to become applicable to the european union, it is necessary for an instrument of approval to be deposited. as is customary with such international conventions, the deposit of the instrument of approval has to be accompanied by information on national central authorities, as well as any reservations which may apply to certain articles of the convention. following consultations with the member states, it is now necessary to make certain amendments to annexes ii and iii of the decision approving the convention, thus allowing the instrument of approval to be deposited. in particular, the changes concern the situation of cyprus, latvia, luxembourg and portugal.
member of the commission. − madam president, croatia is a very different country from what it was when it submitted its application to join the european union in 2003. throughout the rigorous accession process, progress has been achieved in all areas. but it is not only croatia which has become very different. the european union enlargement policy has also become different. it has become more credible, which is also because of the commitment of our croatian colleagues. croatia was the first candidate country to go through the benchmarks approach in each and every chapter. croatia was the first country where we have acquired the track record. enlargement is no longer a just an exercise in ticking boxes. croatia was the first country to address chapter 23 – the chapter of chapters – focusing on the reform of the judiciary and fundamental freedoms, the most powerful instrument and transformation of the country. croatia was also the first country to undergo the pre-accession monitoring process. all this not only lent more credibility to the enlargement process but also meant croatia was prepared for joining the european union. so there is no need now for a cooperation and verification mission. i am happy that the european parliament played an important role in both these processes – in changing croatia and also making the enlargement policy more credible. from 1 july 2013, as a member state of the european union, croatia will actively participate in shaping the future of europe. it is also committed to continuing to play an active role in the region and support its neighbours on their way towards the european union. i look forward to working closely with all of you and with your new colleagues from croatia and to continuing the process of enlargement for the benefit both of the region and of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, thank you for the range of very constructive and also very frank contributions that we have heard here. i think it is very refreshing to have that type of debate. from our point of view, a credible enlargement policy is absolutely key to maintaining the momentum of reform in countries seeking to become part of the european union, as well as, of course, to ensure continued public support for enlargement within our member states. that is a challenge, but it is one that i think we can rise to if we continue with a credible policy, which i believe we are doing. our enlargement policy is based on a consolidation of commitments, fair and rigorous conditionality and better communication. this is combined with the eu’s capacity, in all its dimensions, to integrate new members, with each country being assessed on its own merits and its own efforts. i believe this is why enlargement is one of the most successful big projects of the european union. it is up there with the single market, the currency union and the other big ideas that we have had since the inception of the european communities. at a time of immense challenge in europe, right across the european union and in our neighbouring regions, it is important that we acknowledge a project which is such an immense success and that we acknowledge its value for the continuing evolution and progress of the union, all the time ensuring that it is a credible, objective process. i believe that is what we have. croatia’s imminent accession to the eu is an achievement which will bring positive benefits throughout the western balkans, and many members have alluded to this. it clearly demonstrates what can be achieved with dedicated and sustained hard work – and most of all, political will. what has been achieved in the past ten years is nothing short of remarkable in the context of croatia, and mrs cornelissen and others have mentioned that in their contributions. i think we have to stand back sometimes and reflect on that massive transformation that has taken place in such a relatively short period of time. we sincerely hope that this will give new momentum to the european perspective of the western balkans, provided that all countries concerned continue on this path of genuine reform. croatia should provide a really positive example and, i hope, give inspiration to the other countries in the western balkans which might eventually join our union. i hope we will have the opportunity to welcome many, if not all of those countries of the western balkans to the european family in the near future. i would like in conclusion to congratulate rapporteur rouček again for his excellent work and his long commitment to this process. congratulations also to commissioner füle, who has shown great resolve and great patience at times throughout the process. it is essential that we now keep up this positive momentum in croatia. i have no doubt that we will see a continued commitment from the croatian people and its government, enabling us to finalise our work and welcome croatia as the 28th member state of the union on 1 july 2013. my only regret, of course, is that it will be a day after we conclude the irish presidency. but we cannot have all the positive stories!
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, on behalf of the council, i would like to sincerely thank parliament for its work on this issue, and in particular your rapporteur ms oomen-ruijten. your resolution highlights a number of significant issues and comes at an important point in eu-turkey relations. turkey is both a candidate country and a key partner for the european union. the turkish economy contributes to the prosperity of the european continent. turkey’s active foreign policy is clearly having a growing impact in the region, and there is intensified political dialogue between the eu and turkey. the eu-turkey relationship goes back a long way. the range of areas in which we cooperate clearly illustrate the extent to which we share common interests. however, the eu-turkey relationship has not achieved its full potential. this can only happen through progress in both the accession negotiations and other dimensions of the relationship. it is therefore encouraging that we now see renewed momentum in the accession negotiations, with the possibility of opening the important regional policy chapter in the next few months, and hopefully before the conclusion of the irish presidency. clearly, the presidency will do everything it can to encourage further progress, and this will also require significant effort on the turkish side. we are encouraged by the cooperation we have received to date from turkey, from the commission and from our eu partners. the positive agenda has played an important role in taking forward the relationship. it is clear, however, that the positive agenda is a complement to the negotiations. it cannot be a substitute for them. constitutional reform is key to making progress. as underlined in your draft resolution, the council strongly encourages turkey’s work on a new constitution and welcomes the fact that this has been part of a broad, democratic and participatory process. this should help create a framework for further developments, not least with regard to the all-important kurdish issue. on the kurdish issue, we are encouraged by the latest positive developments under the i̇mralı peace process. the process is still in a delicate phase and the obstacles to achieving a breakthrough are formidable. however, the call by pkk leader abdullah öcalan to the pkk to lay down arms and withdraw beyond turkey’s borders, as well as the positive reactions to that call, are encouraging and to be welcomed. work on the new constitution must continue to be wide-ranging and inclusive. however, implementation in line with european standards is critical to ensuring progress in turkey’s efforts towards complying with the accession criteria. constitutional reform is not the only priority area. there have been a number of other positive developments, such as the establishment of an ombudsman and a national human rights institution. progress has also been made in the area of women’s rights and gender equality, through the adoption of the third judicial reform package, and in civilian oversight of the security forces. however, we do recognise that further work is required. we call on turkey in particular to continue to improve the observance of fundamental rights and freedoms, both in law and in practice. we have serious concerns with regard to freedom of expression. we see large numbers of legal cases being brought against writers, journalists, academics and human rights defenders for expressing their non-violent opinions, as well as frequent website bans. the broad application of legislation on terrorism and organised crime also remains a serious concern, and it is essential that the independence, impartiality and efficiency of the judiciary be ensured. these issues must be addressed, not only through legislation, but also in the way existing legislation is implemented. there are other important areas where more remains to be done. these include freedom of religion, property rights, trade union rights, rights of persons belonging to minorities, women’s and children’s rights, anti-discrimination and gender equality, and the fight against torture and ill-treatment. there is one particular unresolved issue which has a direct bearing on both the accession negotiations and eu-turkey relations in general. we deeply regret that turkey – despite our repeated calls – continues to refuse to fulfil its obligations with regard to the additional protocol to the association agreement. our position on this is very well known. in the absence of progress on the full non-discriminatory implementation of the protocol, the eu will maintain its measures from 2006, which will continue to affect overall progress in the negotiations. we also expect turkey to make progress towards the necessary normalisation of its relations with the republic of cyprus without further delay. i should add that the council deeply regretted turkey’s freezing of its relations with the council presidency during the second half of last year, as well as its statements on this issue, and its non-alignment with eu positions or statements in international forums. the presidency is a key part of the institutional set-up of the eu and should be respected as such. i would also like to underline the importance which we attach to good neighbourly relations in general. this is one of the basic requirements for measuring progress on turkey’s path to the eu. i would like to conclude by referring to an all-important aspect of eu-turkey bilateral relations, namely visa liberalisation. it is encouraging that you welcome the council’s decision to invite the commission to take steps towards visa liberalisation as a gradual and long-term perspective, in parallel with the signature of the readmission agreement. the council supports the launch of a dialogue on visa, mobility and migration between the commission and turkey. at the same time it is essential that the negotiated eu-turkey readmission agreement is signed and concluded, as well as being effectively implemented.
member of the commission. − madam president, minister, honourable members, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, ms oomen-ruijten, for the high quality of the report we are discussing today. recent developments in european union-turkey relations give cause for optimism. first, last december’s council spoke of a ‘new momentum in the accession negotiations’. we are confident that we can open negotiation chapters again in 2013. second, we are making progress in our cooperation on visas and migration, as we just said. we are confident that we can soon start a visa dialogue with turkey, together with the signature of the readmission agreement between turkey and the european union. two weeks ago the turkish parliament adopted the law on foreigners and international protection. once properly implemented, this law will also address some important issues of the visa roadmap. third, the dialogue on foreign policy issues between the european union and turkey has intensified. we hope this will lead to increased alignment with the european union’s positions. we appreciate and support turkey’s continued active and vocal role on syria and its vital humanitarian role and management of the influx of syrian refugees. turkey hosts over 190 000 registered refugees as of today. the news on the rapprochement between turkey and israel is also good. honourable members, let me also underline a number of recent developments inside turkey. the drafting of a new constitution has arrived at a critical stage. the participatory process followed so far has our full support. the courageous initiative to bring peace at last in the south-east of the country is a promising chance to end terrorism and to pave the way to an overall solution of the kurdish issue. the fourth judicial reform package adopted by the turkish parliament last week is an important development in respect for fundamental rights in turkey. it does not exempt the government from passing further reforms. provisions remain in turkish legislation that are a cause for concern, notably as regards freedom of expression and freedom of assembly and association, and that needs to be addressed. i understand that the outstanding points will be included in the forthcoming human rights action plan, which i hope will be finalised very soon. regarding the cyprus issue, the commission looks forward to a re-launch of fully-fledged negotiations as soon as possible with the aim of reaching a swift conclusion of the talks, even though we understand that the immediate priorities of the republic of cyprus lie elsewhere. there should not be any taboos in the search for a comprehensive settlement to the cyprus issue. i hope that the overall positive environment i referred to at the beginning will be transformed into an opportunity for the benefit of both the greek cypriot community and the turkish cypriot community. a settlement will also contribute significantly to the business environment and unleash the full economic potential of the island, including in the area of energy. thank you very much for your attention.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i think that is the approach of the report, a report which has been basically agreed. i think that he will have the support of a very large majority in this house. in this process of drawing up the report - and i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur - our group has basically had three priorities. the first is to strengthen positive and fruitful relations with turkey, to develop the positive agenda and all its aspects and to seek the most common and cooperative possible positions with regard to a region 'the middle east' which is currently troubled by tragic problems and conflicts. the second priority is to maintain and move forward, to take a step forward in the accession negotiations by opening new chapters. and the third priority, without any interference whatsoever, is to seek support for the democratic process in turkey. there's some very important stuff going on there. on the one hand, the implementation of a series of reforms in the field of laws, the judiciary, human rights and women's equality. they are contradictory reforms and we must support the most democratic and progressive way out in all these fields. then there is a very important constitutional process, and finally there is a peace process. after decades of conflict that has cost tens of thousands of victims and billions of dollars or euros, there is now a historic occasion when the active support of the european union should not be lacking.
mr duff, you are registered to speak on this subject. if you put a 'blue card' question now, i shall not give you the floor on the list of speakers. you choose whether you want to ask the question now or whether you want to talk later. you choose what you prefer.
i always reconsider everything, i finish the debates i preside over in the time allotted and all those who are registered speak, which is not always the case. does it refer to the 'blue card' question procedure or to compliance with the rules?
mr tannock, i take note of your interpretation and i respect your interpretation, but i am the one presiding at the moment, and i will maintain my position. and mr. duff, when he takes the floor later, he can comment as he wishes on the subject in question.
mr president, my colleague, mr takis hadjigeorgiou, has already stated the position of the group. i would like to dwell on something which i consider to be fundamental and that is the fact that the european union had to send a clear message to turkey. the problem is that turkey will never be able to become a member of the european union as long as it keeps the north of the republic of cyprus occupied, that 37% of the territory which is occupied by 40 000 turkish soldiers. and it is also pursuing a policy of permanent colonization, bringing non-turkish cypriots to the north of the island and putting the cultural integrity of the turkish cypriot community at risk. so, for me, this is a message that must be absolutely clear, namely: turkey, as much as it tries to appear as a factor of peace in the region, has a flank that prevents it from really appearing as what it claims to be and that is precisely the illegal, illegal occupation of the republic of cyprus. and so i think this is a message that should be a very clear, very clear message, so that, indeed, the administrations that have had and that turkey has take into account.
mr president, in the process of accession, turkey is carrying out a series of political and economic reforms which are making a major contribution to the modernisation of the country. we have had to do the same for many other countries, now members of the union. and the report by mrs oomen-ruijten, whom i congratulate, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, encourages the turkish government to continue this important reform process, which even affects the turkish constitution itself. i am not criticizing the opening of chapter 22, on regional policy, which has already been announced. i am glad that mrs oomen-ruijten's report supports the opening of new negotiating chapters, such as chapter 15 on energy. i believe that cooperation between turkey and the union in the field of energy is very relevant. europeans need to diversify our sources of supply and also the routes through which energy is supplied. turkey, because of its geographical location, occupies a strategic place in the necessary diversification. and it is precisely because of this geographical location that turkey's cooperation is needed in order to manage the migration flows that pass through that country. it has not yet signed the readmission agreement and i also regret that there has been no approximation of turkish visa policy to the union's policy. i already denounced this point last year. i think that dialogue and coordination on foreign policy between the european union and turkey is very desirable. what is happening on the southern shore of the mediterranean with the arab countries is decisive for turkey and for the union. these are our neighbours - both of them - who have been experiencing a period of growing change or even revolutionary change for the last two years. we must coordinate as much as possible between turks and europeans so that our messages to the neighbouring world are in line and we can influence them in the interests of their prosperity, freedom and stability.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is not the first time i have had the privilege of participating in this important debate in the european parliament. i would therefore, as a reflection, like to share the two following points with you at this time. this debate clearly demonstrates that, at the present time, it is hardly possible for there to be full unity among us on turkish membership of the european union. indeed, this is a difficult issue to make a judgement on today because, despite many years having passed since we opened accession negotiations, for a number of reasons we are still at the beginning of these negotiations. with 13 chapters opened and only one provisionally closed, i have to reach this conclusion beyond any doubt. but i am fairly sure that the time will come – and we should work on it when it does – when we will be in a position to make that judgement. we shall have turkey, on one side, going through all 35 chapters and delivering on its commitments there. on the other side, we shall have the commission providing you and the member states with a clear assessment of the impact of turkish membership on the european union. i think the priority now is probably not to concentrate on that hypothetical question at this time, namely whether we will have everything in our hands at the end of the process. let us concentrate instead on the process itself and on strengthening its credibility on both sides – on the european union side and on the turkish side. credibility on the turkish side, in a sense, should strengthen the point that reforms are the engine of accession negotiations. what should you expect from a candidate country? you should expect it to know that, in order to become a european union member state, it has to go through not only the 35 chapters but through all the commitments reflected in those 35 chapters. there is no way to become a member state other than to fully share our values and the values of these organisations. our credibility comes from the time when, a few years ago, we decided on the rules of the game and on how this process would be pursued. we should stick to the rules of the game and not change those rules. this is the only way to ensure that we continue to be the benchmark of turkish reforms. we all talk about the need for the reforms in turkey. there can be only as many reforms as there are european union engagements in these processes. my second remark is on the positive agenda, which we discussed last year. it has worked because it has, to a large extent, eliminated the idea that ‘we deserve it’, which i have heard so often from a number of turkish partners. it also brought a number of those positive elements to which the presidency referred. it is now important to connect the points to which we refer, create momentum in this important engagement, put the accession negotiations back on track and make this process sustainable. this is the only way to bring turkey closer to europe, defined by its values, rule of law, democracy and fundamental freedoms.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the members for what i think has been a very comprehensive debate. i think it shows clearly that the negotiation process is gaining momentum once again and that it continues to encourage both political and economic reforms in turkey. this is the best way forward, and we should continue down this road of encouraging genuine reform in turkey. i outlined, in my introductory remarks, the many areas where there is need for further reform, and i do not propose to repeat them. i note that a number of members have echoed some of those. as was also underlined in the resolution, all sides have a lot to gain from progress in the negotiations and from further political and economic reforms in turkey – that is clear. from our side, the presidency – together with the member states and the commission – we are doing what we can to move things forward. i am pleased that, under the irish presidency, we have seen something of a breakthrough, and i hope that we can see concrete progress before the end of our presidency. i would like to conclude by recalling that, ultimately, it is turkey’s own ability and willingness to move forward which will determine the pace of the negotiations. in that sense, the ball is in turkey’s court. turkey’s own progress in addressing benchmarks, as well as the requirements of the negotiating framework and the accession partnership, continues to be the primary determining factor. advancing the negotiations will require not only further general reform efforts but also a great deal of political courage and leadership from turkey. from our side, we will continue to closely follow and support further developments. finally, i would like to highlight the european parliament’s particular importance for the wider political process in which we operate. engaging the citizens of both turkey and eu member states in democratic discussion remains crucial if we are to ensure continued support for this important process, and this is something that i think is worth reiterating time and again. i would like to thank the members for a very fruitful debate here, and thank you for all the work which has been carried out, particularly by the rapporteur.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2012 progress report on montenegro (2012/2860 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. − mr president, let me conclude my remarks by reiterating my congratulations to the rapporteur, charles tannock, for his high-quality report. by acknowledging the progress already made, a well-balanced message has been sent that should encourage montenegro to step up reforms on the path to the european union. following the screening meetings held in spring last year, the commission has prepared the screening reports for negotiating the chapters on the judiciary and fundamental rights, and justice, freedom and security – chapters 23 and 24 – and montenegro was invited by the council in december to prepare the required action plans and the opening benchmarks for both chapters. the progress of montenegro in addressing the challenges in these rule-of-law-related chapters will determine the overall pace of negotiations. the accession negotiations will be a very demanding process for montenegro, but i am sure that, with our common support and montenegro’s strong commitment to the country’s future in the european union, montenegro will continue to implement european union-related reforms for the benefit of its citizens and to set a positive example in the western balkans.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to begin by supporting mr tannock’s view that montenegro is a small and beautiful country. in fact it is quite breathtaking, and i completely concur that it is a country which has a huge amount to contribute to our european family. i look forward to that happening in due course. accession is obviously a very complex, difficult, demanding and sometimes frustrating process; that is clear. there is no denying that the new applicants for eu membership are being held to a higher account than their predecessors, not least due to the increase in the scope and depth of the acquis. but i believe that this is not something to fear; rather it is a positive opportunity both for the candidate country – montenegro – and the existing eu member states. the negotiating framework for montenegro puts into effect this new approach, which sees progress achieved on the rule-of-law chapters linked to overall progress in the accession negotiations. i think it is working quite well. for this reason, the rule of law chapters are being tackled early in the negotiations in order to allow the maximum amount of time to establish the necessary legislation, institutions and, of course, a solid track record of implementation before negotiations are closed. this very much lends itself to the whole idea of credibility in the enlargement process, and that is something which i consider to be very positive. the success of the accession negotiations will depend primarily on montenegro itself. however, we stand ready to help in every way we can. we look forward to continuing close cooperation with you – our friends in the european parliament – during the presidency, not only with regard to montenegro’s accession process but also with the other candidates. indeed we will continue in that cooperative spirit, i hope, long beyond our presidency. we count on your support here in the european parliament and your partnership, in particular to maintain the support of our citizens in what is a very important common endeavour, as i mentioned earlier. thank you again for an excellent debate, thank you for the spirit of cooperation and positivity here in the chamber, and thank you for your attention.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2012 progress report on serbia (2012/2868).
mr president, we european nations defend the international right to self-determination – in the european context as well. we support the international community’s right to decide and obligation of recognition. we are democrats, and we support the right of kosovo to be an independent state recognised by most of the states in the international community. today there are only five member states in the european union which have not recognised this reality. one of these member states is the spanish state. why does spain not recognise kosovo? perhaps the party in power is against democracy? why can catalan people not vote to decide on their own future in a referendum as the scottish people can? the european union has to recognise these new future states in europe. the economic crisis shows that we need more europe and more forces to find the solutions together. kosovo can become a new member state of the european union. why can scotland or flanders not become new member states of the union? it is time to talk about democracy, and it is time to talk about these new realities in europe. peoples can decide their future if we accept the right to self-determination.
mr president, i commend and thank the efforts made by the commission, the high representative and also the council. i also thank the rapporteur for the work she has done on the resolution. i hope, as do all those who have spoken, that the dialogue between serbia and kosovo will be fruitful and that we can conclude an agreement for further european integration. we have heard that there are still five european countries which have not recognised kosovo. one of them is the spanish state, and its lack of recognition is due to the fact that spain - the spanish authorities - look more at its territorial reality than at what is happening in the european arena with kosovo. and in this sense, and with all the efforts we are making for the integration of kosovo into europe, i would like to ask the commission and the council: what are you doing, what efforts are you making so that these five countries can recognize kosovo soon? secondly, what arguments do the commission and the council put forward for this lack of recognition? and thirdly, will his position make it more difficult for kosovo to progress in its integration into europe?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. madam minister, i rise today on behalf of the committee on fisheries and i do so with sadness, i really do. believe me when i say that i would like to never have to intervene again to discuss an institutional problem with the council of ministers that has remained unresolved since 2009, despite having been raised and denounced to the hilt in numerous instances and at all possible levels, including now, and unfortunately, the court of justice of the european union. i am referring to the multiannual fisheries plans which have been drawn up since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which recognises co-decision in fisheries policy, making parliament a co-legislator, but it seems that this mandate is not assumed by the council. the multiannual plans are an essential tool for the conservation of marine fisheries resources, and they embody all the new requirements that the reform of this policy introduces, such as regionalisation, the achievement of maximum sustainable yields, the elimination of discards and the incorporation of technical measures appropriate to the fisheries covered by the plan. fishing opportunities, or quotas, have also traditionally been adopted in the plans through the establishment of rules on the control of catches. we have had numerous discussions in parliament with the various council presidencies to try to find a solution, but i must admit that we have not been successful. we have also turned to the european commission to mediate on this point by proposing solutions to bring positions closer together, and that approach has also failed to bear fruit, since we have never received, either formally or informally, any exit option from the commission. we have even spoken to commissioner damanaki on numerous occasions, but although she formally supports us in this fight, we have always felt that there has been a lack of greater commitment to finding solutions. we have held numerous meetings in the committee to look for policy alternatives. we have approached each and every one of the fisheries ministers explaining the situation and looking for a way out. this alternative, this situation, has also produced no results, and that is why parliament decided at a certain moment to block the vote on the report on technical measures for the protection of young people, simply as a sign of opposition to an unwavering position which we did not understand. we have subsequently decided to unblock it as a gesture of goodwill, in view of the commitments made by the irish presidency, but we have not seen a fair return for our outstretched hand. finally, parliament has proposed - and this is something none of us wants, but is on the table - to paralyse the reform of the common fisheries policy because the plans are a very important part of it. because the reality is that today, four years later, the situation has not changed. that said, i can assure you that i will not lose hope that we can all find a solution, because i refuse to accept that the council does not accept the lisbon treaty in relation to co-decision in fisheries. i also refuse to admit it because parliament and the council have in fact been able to agree and work together as co-legislators, and in a rapid and efficient way. i am referring to the legislative resolution on technical measures to protect juveniles, an extremely complex report on which we have found a common position, or, for example, the legislative resolution on measures against states which allow unsustainable fishing activities. i therefore believe that some of the recent actions taken by the council to avoid sitting down to negotiate with parliament are nothing more than an expression of its fear of losing prerogatives to adopt fishing quotas. but let me be very clear: actions such as the recent case of the north sea cod plan have led the commission and parliament to have to go to the court of justice and we will continue to do so even if we do not wish to. i say this clearly: we do not want to put institutional relations on trial, we want a political response and not a judicial one. we will try by all means to achieve the first, but - i also say this very clearly - we will not give up the second. the continuation of this blockade has, of course, negative implications - as i said before - for the reform process, especially now that we are in the tripartite dialogue. we don't want to get to any blocks. i'm sure we'll be able to avoid it. i believe in the will of the presidency and i sincerely tell it that in parliament it will find every facility to seek and find a political solution, but it will also find a firm defence of our powers. on that basis i ask you the question you are familiar with.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank mr mato adrover for his question. it has been clear for some time that the council and parliament have divergent interpretations of the provisions in the treaty on the functioning of the european union as they relate to multiannual management plans for fisheries. this is obviously a long-running issue and will not easily be resolved. it has impacted on the effectiveness of the existing common fisheries policy (cfp) as progress on the adoption of multiannual plans has been hindered. there is no disagreement that multiannual management plans are a vital instrument in fisheries policy and they must form the cornerstone of the future cfp. the irish presidency believes that we must find a way forward – and thank you for your kind remarks in terms of your belief in the goodwill of the presidency. we believe that we can and will find a way forward particularly in the context of reaching agreement on a reformed cfp. minister simon coveney, as president-in-office of the council, has made serious efforts to progress finding a way forward. he met informally at the beginning of the irish presidency with the chair and the coordinators of the committee on fisheries (pech) to gain a clearer understanding of their views. in addition, this issue was addressed during minister coveney’s formal presentation to the full pech committee on 22 january. the minister also made the issue the topic for debate at the first fisheries council under our presidency in january. this was the first time that ministers had addressed the overall issue. following this exchange of views minister coveney addressed parliament at the plenary session on 5 february to advise it of his conclusions. he reported that ministers were also very concerned about the time passing without a resolution being found. he was pleased to be able to say they offered to be both constructive and flexible in their efforts to find a pragmatic solution, which of necessity must recognise the respective competencies set out in the treaty. it is important to note that his comments were made in the context of his attendance at parliament’s historic first reading vote on the reform of the cfp and this situation provides an important framework in which we envisage opportunities for further progress. in the intervening period, the irish presidency has noted that parliament and the commission have referred the matter to the european court of justice. this referral was in the context of the decision taken by the council last december to amend aspects of the cod recovery plan regulation under the provisions of article 43(3) of the lisbon treaty. the presidency considers that in the context of this new development we must work to deliver both a reformed cfp and make progress, where possible, on multiannual plans which are the cornerstone of the planned reformed cfp. in the context of the current trilogue negotiations on the basic common fisheries policy regulation, the presidency on behalf of the council will work constructively with parliament and the commission to provide a clear mandate on the principles, objectives and content within the regulation for multiannual plans that will ensure that the reformed cfp will be effectively delivered. the presidency believes that we need to proceed in a legally neutral way that respects the respective positions of both parliament and the council. it is crucial too that governance processes are improved to allow a more regional focus which will reinforce a culture of compliance by operators, which is essential to safeguard increasingly healthy fish stocks. we foresee that future multiannual management plans will have the necessary scope and include the types of measures that will allow the eco-system based management approach to be applied as well as practical measures to reduce unwanted catches, thereby facilitating the landing obligation without undermining the commercial attractiveness of the sector. the presidency is also committed to taking a proactive approach to provide a basis for delivering multiannual plans under the reformed cfp while respecting the position of both institutions. the presidency plans to consider the situation and issues at its discussion on the basic regulation at the april fisheries council which will take place on 22 april. the presidency will continue to work with the council, parliament and the commission to reach agreement on the future content of multiannual plans. our ambition is to ensure that we are all in a position to move positively and urgently on the adoption of critical multiannual plans which must be put in place without delay to give practical effect to the delivery of the objective of a reformed cfp. just to move on to the second element of your question, as regards the time-frame within which the presidency will provide the european parliament with concrete proposals to produce a resolution to the current impasse, i can say that the presidency acknowledges that the current situation relating to inter-institutional responsibilities continues to be an area of great concern. as i have said, arriving at an agreed resolution on this matter will, undoubtedly, be challenging. suggestions for dealing specifically with the issue in the text of the basic regulation which is being progressed in trilogues are currently being examined and the presidency is hopeful that a neutral way forward can be found. the challenges involved in securing agreement on this and other areas where divergence exists are not underestimated, but neither are they surprising given the many challenging issues and diverse interests which are involved in the cfp reform proposal. the presidency is also seeking to find a way forward that will support agreement on multiannual plans that need to be adopted as soon as the basic regulation has been adopted. this will be critical in order to implement the ambitious provisions of the new reformed cfp. further consideration of the issues involved will be reviewed as part of the discussion on the reform which, as i said, will take place on 22 april at the fisheries council.
madam president, madam minister, like other members who have preceded me, this is not the first time that i have spoken in the house to denounce the council's attitude of paralysing multiannual fisheries plans solely for reasons of power and legal interpretation, as has already been said. they refuse to accept that the treaty of lisbon provides for co-decision and parliament's participation in this case, as in others. plans are essential for business and for fishermen. they are very useful tools for preserving fish stocks, especially small-scale coastal artisanal fishing, and for curbing the overexploitation of species and the marine environment, currently estimated at 80% at or above the maximum sustainable yield. it is therefore essential that the irish presidency puts more pressure on the 27 member states so that this situation, which is so damaging to the fisheries sector, is not maintained and the sustainability of the sector can be ensured.
madam president, madam minister, europe is in an economic crisis and also a political crisis, which is manifested in issues such as the one raised by this question. the council has decided to breach the lisbon treaty, to prevent parliament from voting on the design and adoption of multiannual plans to improve fisheries management and to block, among other things, the anchovy plan, for which i am the rapporteur. the council is saying no to regionalisation, no to transparency, no to openness, no to participation and no to the credibility of the european institutions: elements with which i have worked with the whole sector, which feels that its work and effort are being underestimated. they overcome the obscurantism and the historical use of fisheries as a bargaining chip in the council. today we want to know the real reasons for their actions, but above all the sector is waiting for a change of position on the part of the states, a new governance and the unblocking of the final approval of the fisheries management plan and the rest of the plans. i hope that this will not make it more difficult to pass other initiatives, such as the fisheries reform, because it is part of the life and future of the sector. i also trust the will of the minister and the irish presidency, so i ask you to please bring an agreement to this house.
i think there is a very broad agreement that one of the great innovations of the lisbon treaty was to recognise the ability of citizens to come together and launch a citizens' legislative initiative. on this basis, i think that the work of parliament and the work of the commission to adopt the relevant regulations was satisfactory, relatively quick and, in any case, very positive in respect of these rights of citizens. there was no resistance in parliament, as the depository of representative democracy, to this manifestation of direct democracy. on the contrary, it was always understood as an enrichment of our capacity to represent the citizens. we should have a review in 2015, but the fact is that we are obliged to do it immediately, because, one year after the launch of this initiative, none of the concrete ones has materialized. there are 30 of them, 14 are still alive and there are problems which are obviously holding them back. we can be satisfied that the issues which have interested the citizens are issues of high social content and concern quality of life, the environment, education, traffic, research, rights, and we are therefore satisfied. there has been no reception of this initiative by the market lobbies, but the commission has just pointed out - and we all agree - that there are technical, legal and material problems. i would encourage the commission to ask the council to reduce the problems facing the member states, particularly the one it has mentioned of non-recognition of the signatures of nationals living abroad. i think that, at a time when there is a lot of euroscepticism, it is appropriate to give citizens the possibility of feeling european and of feeling directly involved in the legislative process.
madam president, today the great debates that are open in the european union, and many of them with large mobilizations, with general strikes, revolve around whether we can have a single currency with a public treasury, whether we can have a central bank other than the federal reserve or whether the policies of the european union should be based on austerity or growth. these are the subjects for debate. citizens would like to have an instrument for decision-making and participation, through referendums, through legislative initiatives. and the problem we have is that this instrument prevents that, because it blocks, it blocks the fundamental and the substantial. the party of the european left presented an initiative on the creation of a public bank. no, it can't be done. in the 21st century, the debate is whether citizens are approaching decision-making or not. everything else is a story, a story! are citizens in the 21st century getting closer to decision-making? can decisions be made? can decisions be reversed? can binding referendums be held? can citizens be helped to make decisions directly? that is the debate and therefore i think there is still a long way to go.
madam president, the prevention and correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances are a fundamental pillar of european economic governance; they require transparency and a public process of democratic deliberation that safeguards the interests of all european citizens, and so they must be carried out with the involvement and control of the european parliament. the setting of indicators is a political tool at the highest level, it is a democratic and not a bureaucratic issue, because it identifies imbalances, ensures the proper functioning of the alert mechanism and the adoption of corrective measures. the commission must do so within the framework of a parliamentary democracy, in compliance with the law and commitments to good governance. for these reasons, three messages: firstly, the facts and the information to parliament after the fact are unacceptable; secondly, so is the lack of equal treatment between the co-legislators; and thirdly, symmetrical treatment between deficit and surplus countries cannot be postponed any longer, because there can be no incentive to maintain imbalances.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for this debate. first i will answer a few concrete questions on the issue of productivity and including that in the scoreboard. the alert mechanism report does include productivity as an auxiliary indicator, as well as other productivity related indicators such as investment and r&d spending. moreover, it also contains unit labour costs, which consider the relative increase of labour costs and productivity. on symmetry, the commission has been implementing what it calls intelligent symmetry, considering both current account deficits and current account surpluses, but the risks they raise are very different. therefore the pressure should not be fully symmetrical. we have produced a whole report to consider this, which i invite you to consult for further discussion on this very important topic. as i mentioned earlier and as is the line of the whole commission, as you know we attach the utmost importance to cooperation with this parliament. in choosing the financial sector indicator, the commission by no means intended to sidestep this view. in retrospect the margin for notification does indeed seem tight. this is explained, on the one hand, by the fact that technical work within the commission’s departments was only concluded in mid-november and, on the other, by the commission’s genuine conviction that parliament had a priori given its green light. while the commission deployed its best efforts to include a financial sector indicator in time for the publication of the alert mechanism report, as requested by parliament and the council, it would be regrettable for these efforts to be interpreted as having been undertaken in anything other than good faith. the commission assures parliament that it will be informed in good time about the future modification of the mip scoreboard. the commission, across its departments, fully concurs with parliament in that the only valid culture is one of cooperation, recognition and thereby mutual reinforcement of our institutions’ strength and credibility. in the current situation, where surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances needs to be swift and functional, every opportunity should be used to build proportional and constructive approaches at interinstitutional level. as you probably know, vice-president rehn will come to the committee on economic affairs next year, and i am sure he is willing to discuss further issues related to this. thank you very much for this debate.
mr president, i wish to raise a point of order relating to rule 140 of the rules of procedure. the agenda for this plenary session, mr president, is to debate and vote on a motion for a resolution on the situation in guantanamo. i would like to record the european people's party group's unwavering and unwavering commitment to the human rights of the prisoners at guantanamo, but, mr president, i think that voting on this joint motion for a resolution on the same day as the funeral for the victims of the boston marathon is a political mistake, a great lack of tact and, of course, a lack of sensitivity on the part of this parliament. mr president, on the basis of this argument, my group proposes that it be withdrawn from the agenda and entered in the may part-session. if this proposal, mr president, does not have a majority in the house, the group of the european people's party will not take part in the debate and will not vote on the resolution.
mr president, i want to say that i agree with the arguments put forward by mr tannock and i appreciate his support, but i believe that the proposal made by mr swoboda can solve this problem, it can be a satisfactory proposal, and we can accept it so that the joint motion for a resolution can be put to the vote at the next part-session in may.
in writing. - this report gives approval to the facilitation of visas for citizens of ukraine. despite the fact that there is a situation of discrimination against homosexuals in that country, i voted in favour of the report because, in my view, delaying the improvement in the facilitation of visas for ukrainian citizens would be punishing them.
in writing. − abstention. today the european parliament gave its binding consent for easier eu visa rules for ukrainian citizens. i have my concerns. since 2011, the ukrainian parliament has been examining two draft laws making it illegal to say homosexuality is normal, or supporting lgbt people in any way. they are now close to being adopted, and the european parliament expressed concern about these draft laws on several occasions. ahead of today’s vote, human rights organisations including human rights watch and ilga-europe had called on the european parliament to send the agreement back to committee, postponing the vote. the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe made this request, but failed to gather a majority. i wish this vote had been postponed in order to send a strong political signal to ukraine. we cannot deepen our relationship with a country that enacts witch-hunting laws against its minorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which amends an existing agreement with moldova of 2008, because it provides for improvements for moldovan citizens in facilitating visas for short stays (90 days) in each 180-day period. this improvement will reduce the time and costs associated with travel within the schengen area.
in writing. − in favour. the visa facilitation agreement between the european community and the republic of moldova has been in force since 1 january 2008. this agreement has been extremely successful. despite these successes, an evaluation of the functioning of the agreement highlighted some additional amendments that should be made to correct any misrepresentations or differences in interpretations of the text. it represents an encouraging step forward and will promote the people-to-people contacts, the economic development, the cultural and scientific dialogue, stability, security and well-being of the citizens. the visa liberalisation process is also an opportunity for moldova to implement the reforms needed in the area of freedom, security and justice. there are still some significant problems in moldova, in particular ones related to the rule of law. nevertheless, ordinary people should not suffer: the freer travel is, the better chances for improvements we have.
in writing. - i abstained in this report on the impact of the crisis on human rights. the report notes that even if the current crisis situation worldwide were to improve, by 2020 there would still be more than 71 million people in the world in extreme poverty due to the crisis. the report also refers to the exponential increase in unemployment since the beginning of the crisis, which seriously affects the rights of workers, the right to health, education and food. the developed countries are also warned about the failure to meet the millennium development goals, specifically the failure to meet the 0.7% of gdp that has to go to the least developed countries. in short, the report describes well the serious world situation resulting from the crisis, but in my view it lacks proposals to deal with it, nor does it point to the political leaders responsible for the situation. i therefore could not vote in favour and abstained.
in writing. − in favour. human rights include the right to food, water, education, adequate housing, land, decent work, health and social security. all these are topics affected by the crisis. the resolution condemns the fact that these rights have been under attack in a number of countries since the crisis began, recognises that worsening poverty is the main factor preventing people from asserting these rights, and calls for the eu to invest more effort and money in achieving the millennium development goals, given the evidence that the world is falling far short of the goals set for 2015.
in writing. − in favour. the sógor report – despite attempts by the rapporteur to reverse it – supports the commission proposal to determine the population of a country based on the principle of ‘usual residence’ – and use this also when it comes to the question of qualified majority voting in the council (after a transition period of twelve months a person, living in another country, is considered usual resident of that country for statistical purposes). the commission proposal in general, including this part, has been supported by our group in the opinion-giving afco committee and therefore also in empl, and finally in plenary.
in writing. - the report sets out the measures for the environmentally responsible management of ship dismantling provided for by the hong kong convention. the report also proposes that these measures should be applied to ships from non-eu member states anchored in member states, in order to enforce the same rules as those for ships flying the flag of an eu state. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. while the ep has voted to put an end to european ships being recklessly scrapped in developing countries in hazardous conditions, this is jeopardised by the failure to adopt a financial mechanism to support this. it is very frustrating that a narrow majority succumbed to the highly misleading lobbying by the maritime sector, seeking to shirk its responsibilities, and voted down the proposed financial mechanism that would have made safe ship recycling competitive. currently, most eu ships are sent to south-east asia at the end of their lives, where they are beached, with their hazardous materials leaking into the environment and causing unacceptable conditions for human health and the environment. this is an opprobrious practise, which circumvents eu rules under which the export of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries is outlawed.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because i believe that accession to the european union or non-accession is a matter of the sovereignty of a country, in this case croatia. but the enlargement process involves negotiations on the fulfilment of neoliberal criteria which will have a negative impact on the population of croatia. among these criteria are privatisation and liberalisation of public services, the stability of the banking sector and budgetary consolidation, which, as has been demonstrated in the eu member countries, have been the causes of the crisis and the suffering of the working classes. in particular, there is no reference in this report to the high unemployment rate of around 19% or to how accession would help to solve this problem. however, the report expresses concern about the law on strategic investments, as it is not in line with european standards, urging the government to reform the law in order to better protect property rights. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − in favour. we tabled the following 12 amendments at committee level: (6) croatia is not on track, but only largely on track to meet outstanding requirements; (10) need to involve parliament and civil society in monitoring exercise; (18) public administration needs to be professional, accountable, independent and impartial; (22) not ‘with satisfaction’ regarding the fight against corruption, but ‘generally satisfied’ and need to further step up fight against corruption; (32) lgbt rights, socially but also health system, pride; (33) croatian administration not fully prepared for eu funds, need to strengthen capacities; (39) need transparency regarding environmental assessments of large scale investments projects; give priority to environment in spatial planning; (40) concerns about proposed law on strategic investments and european social and environmental standards; (41) appeal to eu ms not to restrict free movement of persons after accession/transitional measures; (43) war crimes: need to swiftly address com recommendations; concerns about law on invalidation; (56) bilateral disputes, enlargement process and arbitration mechanism; (61) com needs to evaluate and assess involvement and role of civil society in enlargement process. four of our 12 amendments were rejected at committee level. these were amendments 6, 32, 33 and 43.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because as long as turkey maintains its military occupation of northern cyprus with over 40 000 troops deployed, it will never be able to become part of the eu. turkey, however much it wants to appear and present itself as a peace actor in the region, maintains an illegal occupation of about 35% of the cypriot territory which exposes it in that role it wants to appear. turkey maintains a policy of permanent cultural invasion, moving thousands of turkish families to northern cyprus to become a minority and ultimately to eliminate the turkish cypriot cultural identity.
in writing. − in favour. renewed mutual engagement in the context of the negotiation process is needed in order to maintain a constructive relationship. the text stresses the importance of creating the conditions for a constructive dialogue and the foundations of a common understanding. it also notes that this should be based on common values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the ep commends the commission and turkey for the implementation of the positive agenda, which proves how, in a context of mutual engagement and clear objectives, turkey and the eu could advance their dialogue, achieve common understanding, and produce positive change and necessary reforms.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because i believe that membership or non-membership of the european union is a matter of the sovereignty of a country, in this case montenegro. but the enlargement process involves negotiations on the fulfilment of neoliberal criteria which will have a negative impact on the population of montenegro. among these criteria are privatisation and liberalisation of public services, the stability of the banking sector and budgetary consolidation, which, as has been demonstrated in the eu member countries, have been the causes of the crisis and the suffering of the working classes. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − in favour. the following amendments were adopted in committee (many others, unfortunately, were not). (5) some instead of significant progress (17) need to involve citizens and civil society in eu accession negotiations (24) ensure political independence of the constitutional court (32) civil society and working groups preparing accession negotiations (46) lawsuits by wife of pm đukanović against two newspapers linked to privatisation of telekom (81) transparency needed regarding construction of new energy sources (82) balance between economic development and environmental protection, link to tourism and spatial planning.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because i believe that membership or non-membership of the european union is a matter of the sovereignty of a country, in this case serbia. but the enlargement process involves negotiations on the fulfilment of neoliberal criteria which will have a negative impact on the serbian population. among these criteria are privatisation and liberalisation of public services, the stability of the banking sector and budgetary consolidation, which, as has been demonstrated in the eu member countries, have been the causes of the crisis and the suffering of the working classes. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − in favour. with our amendments we have achieved several things. for instance: the icty has played an important role in the process of regional reconciliation; the serbian authorities and political leaders to refrain from statements and actions that undermine the authority and integrity of the court; more efforts need to be made by the authorities to obtain justice for survivors of conflict related sexual violence in serbia and elsewhere in the western balkans; need for ensuring the involvement of serbia’s and kosovo’s parliaments and civil societies in the dialogue process; the outcomes of the dialogue need to be communicated in a transparent and coherent manner to the publics in both serbia and kosovo in order to strengthen the process’ credibility and public support; and public consultations on issues must be discussed in the dialogue where appropriate and all agreements reached must be published not only in english but also serbian and albanian. among others.
in writing. - in 1999, under the pretext of avoiding a humanitarian catastrophe in kosovo, nato attacked yugoslavia, causing thousands of civilian casualties and destroying factories and infrastructure. the result of that war was the destruction of yugoslavia's economic structure and kosovo becoming a nato protectorate, despite un resolution 1244 which considers kosovo part of serbia. after 14 years of the attack and 5 years of kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence, reality has shown that the artificial creation of a pseudo-state has been anything but sovereign. this resolution we voted for approves the end of kosovo's supervised independence, which constitutes recognition of its independence, and in turn reaffirms the mandate of eulex to renew and intensify efforts to improve the rule of law in kosovo and to monitor, guide and advise. i have therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. - on behalf of the spanish delegation to the epp group, we wish to state that the reason for our vote on the motion for a resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo is that the motion for a resolution treats kosovo as if it were an ordinary independent state, recognised by the entire international community. the fact is that this is not the case, to the extent that five member states, including spain, have not recognised it.
in writing. - none of the votes of the spanish socialist delegation can be interpreted as a recognition of kosovo, in the absence of an agreement between the parties or a new security council resolution. we are firmly committed to the european perspective of the western balkans, which we consider to be key to stability, peace and the reform process in the region. we are defending a constructive position which is not only the most consistent with the international community's commitment to multiethnic states in the western balkans and with international law, but which, far from being an obstacle, has proved to be key to stimulating serbia's european commitment, stability in the region and progress in the belgrade-pristina dialogue, which must continue. we therefore regret that, for another year, the recognition of kosovo is again contaminating a resolution which would be more effective if it focused on the problems of the people and on what the commission communication has pointed out in relation to the economic situation, corruption, organised crime, integration or displaced persons.
in writing. − in favour. it is especially important that the text welcomes the outcome of the european commission’s feasibility study concluding that stabilisation and association agreement can be concluded between the eu and kosovo in a situation where eu member states maintain different views on status, and provided that kosovo fulfils a number of basic conditions; and that encourages nevertheless the remaining five eu member states to proceed with recognition of kosovo and invites them to do their outmost to facilitate economic, social and political relations between their citizens and kosovo citizens.
in writing. - this resolution expresses the parliament, the council and the commission's full agreement with the process of economic governance and the european semester and their willingness to continue to impose the same neoliberal economic dictates on the member states. i am not against the principle of harmonizing indicators at community level, but i am against continuing to impose the principles of control of public expenditure, privatization and liberalization, which are what these indicators are going to measure. that is why i abstained from voting on this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. one of our key amendments was adopted: ‘recalls its request to the commission to report on the monitoring of capital and resource productivity…’.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. is there any comment?
mr posselt, we naturally take note of your comment. we shall make the correction you request and, if it were necessary to make it in other languages than german, we would of course do so as well. (the minutes were approved)
- the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on vietnam, in particular freedom of expression.
mr posselt, i am very sorry that you have spoken in terms which i find unacceptable in relation to mrs vergiat, who has spoken before. i have known mrs vergiat for many years and she has an impeccable record in the defence of human rights. i do not know your background, mr posselt, but out of respect for you i will not disqualify you as you have disqualified a member of parliament with an exemplary record in the subject under discussion. i will not give you the floor because i have given it to you before and i was very upset by the way you have offended a colleague who deserves all our respect.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the european union has had a cooperation agreement with vietnam since 27 june. if we believe that europe is synonymous with peace and democracy, this agreement must contribute to improving the democratic quality of the vietnamese regime and, consequently, to improving the quality of life of the vietnamese people. article 1 of the agreement establishes respect for human rights and democratic principles as the basis for cooperation between the parties. facts such as those of the vietnamese activists and bloggers show that, text in hand, we can demand that the vietnamese government cease its activities, so as not to squander the opportunities that this collaboration opens up. the commission is also obliged, in view of the gravity of the facts, to assess whether the day-to-day practice of the vietnamese government is compatible with article 1 of the agreement and to act accordingly. otherwise, i think we are doing a disservice to the values we claim to defend.
mr lisek, i listen to you with all due respect, among other things, because you express yourself without rudeness and without aggression. and i would remind you, also with all due respect, that this debate is chaired and directed by the president, not by any of the members who are sitting in it.
mr sonik, i was hoping, knowing your always positive contributions to the debates, that you would also contribute to this debate and not to the unfortunate debate provoked by an intervention which i have understood - and i am the one who understands in this matter - to be unnecessarily disqualifying, and i would even dare to say rude, and not because of the fact that trotsky is quoted - which, well, i think is fine. we should thank you, mr sonik, for bringing mr trotsky to the european parliament's agenda, and for bringing him as a victim of stalinism, something that mr trotsky himself would probably be grateful for. so, in a debate on human rights, we have spoken of trotsky as a victim of stalinism. interventions under the 'catch the eye' procedure
mr posselt, i am not going to give you the floor in this debate.
mr migalski, you are an experienced member of parliament and you know that you have misused the 'blue card' procedure, which consists of a question to the previous speaker. i'm sorry, but we're not going down that road. it was not appropriate for him to intervene. (end of the interventions under the 'catch the eye' procedure)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for holding this debate. we have indeed noticed with concern a more restrictive approach on human rights, notably concerning freedom of expression and the media. the european union values the increasingly positive relationship that we have with vietnam. a close relationship has developed to the point of allowing for an open and frank discussion, also on issues of disagreement. we must of course take into account the very long journey that vietnam has travelled in the last few years. there has been progress in many areas. vietnam was one of the poorest countries in the world at the end of the eighties and within a quarter of a century vietnam has lifted millions of people out of poverty and made progress, as i said. however, there are other areas – those mentioned in your resolution for instance – where we do have concerns, and we regularly raise those issues with vietnam at all levels. following the sentencing of bloggers last september, high representative catherine ashton expressed her serious concerns, calling on vietnam to respect its international obligations and to release the convicted bloggers immediately. the eu head of delegation in hanoi reiterated the eu’s concerns on 11 january and again in march at the occasion of an eu démarche on the death penalty. presidents barroso and van rompuy raised human rights concerns when meeting the general-secretary of the communist party of vietnam in january. the eu-vietnam partnership and cooperation agreement gives a valuable opportunity to deepen cooperation on human rights. on this basis we agreed to establish an enhanced human rights dialogue. the dialogue is our primary tool to address issues of concern and there might be a first meeting in vietnam already before the summer. furthermore, our delegation in hanoi, in coordination with member states, attends trials of human rights defenders, visits prison facilities and interacts with local human rights activists. also, as some of you said, vietnam’s membership of the human rights council of the united nations could be an important opportunity to further highlight the situation of human rights in vietnam. our objective is to achieve tangible results in the dialogue with vietnam. i have confidence that the different instruments that we have and other activities will help strengthen human rights in vietnam as a fundamental element of our partnership.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in kazakhstan. mr posselt has sent me a written message. mr posselt, i propose that when this debate and the votes on the two items are over, and in a kind of explanatory vote, you stay - and i will stay as long as necessary - to hear you defend the subject.
no, i did not give you the floor because you had already intervened at another point in the debate. i never give the floor to a person who has already spoken in a debate to put a question under the 'blue card' procedure.
mr preda and mr sarvamaa wish to put questions to mrs vergiat under the 'blue card' procedure, but she does not wish to answer.
mr preda, no member has said what you have just said and i shall therefore not deal with your question.
mr migalski, i beg you to accept my apology for the debate earlier. you did not intervene under the 'blue card' procedure, but under the 'catch the eye' incident. sorry about the misunderstanding. in any case, i thank you for the friendly and cordial way in which you have addressed the president in pointing out the corresponding error.
member of the commission. − mr president, we have indeed witnessed a growing awareness on the part of the kazakh authorities of the importance of moving forward in the democratisation of society. first steps such as the election of rural governors, and strengthening the powers of the parliament are stated in the strategy kazakhstan 2050. however, we do share many of the concerns expressed in your recommendation and nor is this, indeed, the first time that this parliament has spoken on the situation in kazakhstan. there have been regular reports almost yearly as well as the report from last november. we do continue to work through all possible channels to implement the different recommendations that you highlight and the concerns that you have raised as well. we address these systematically through specific démarches. one was issued on the closure of the premises of the opposition respublika newspaper last december and on the case of vadim kuramshin. our delegation there has also followed very closely and issued a démarche on the case of vladimir kozlov, visiting him in prison and keeping in close contact with his collaborators and his family. we are engaged in continuous interaction with the kazakh authorities, working to strengthen the joint actions with ngos, human rights defenders and other civil society actors concerned. vice-president ashton, when she was there in november, did raise these issues with the authorities and she has also met with different representatives of civil society. our cooperation and assistance projects in support of the rule of law are key tools for accessing concrete results and sharing eu experience and expertise, while increasing the capacity of kazakh society and the government to search for successful solutions. we remain convinced that engagement is the key to achieving progress, particularly in the new context provided by kazakhstan’s membership of the human rights council since the beginning of this year and the imminent start of work on a new national human rights action plan. in our view, the cross-cutting nature of human rights can only benefit from comprehensive cooperation between the eu and kazakhstan, as reflected by the partnership and cooperation agreement. we have always emphasised that the successful conclusion of negotiations on a new agreement will depend on the advancement of political reforms and fulfilment of kazakhstan’s international commitments. this is our point of department for the negotiations and it is a clear commitment. human rights issues should not be seen in isolation but in connection with our political and economic agendas. kazakhstan is, as many of you have said, an important economic and trade partner in the region. it is a key partner for the stability of the region, notably through its increasingly active role in the developing eu–central asia cooperation, as well as for the stability of the broader region through its contribution to the heart of asia process and to nuclear non-proliferation. the eu will continue to work with kazakhstan. promoting progressive development in the human rights area will remain a key part of our engagement with kazakhstan and supporting the political, social and economic development of that country. thank you very much for this debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate this afternoon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on guantanamo: prisoners' hunger strike. in this connection, i believe that the decision taken on mr swoboda's proposal is to hold a debate without a vote at the end of the debate, postponing the vote to a later date. the conference of presidents, which is responsible for adopting the agenda, will decide whether the vote will take place at the next part-session - as would be logical in my view - or at another time. and i understand that it has not been decided to hold a debate on guantanamo without a resolution. that is my interpretation and i want it to be recorded in the minutes of this sitting so that it cannot be understood that there will be no vote on this subject; the vote has simply been postponed, as is often the case in other debates.
i am grateful to mr preda, but that decision should have been taken at the beginning of this morning's sitting and i understand that it is not at this time, although we are in complete solidarity with the victims of this very painful situation.
mrs. vergiat, i appreciate your apology to mr. sonik. mr. sonik is a democrat and a gentleman, and i'm sure he'll gladly accept your apology as well.
mr president, i support the words i have heard here from my friend rui tavares, from véronique de keyser, from richard howitt, from mitro repo, of course i do. what is happening in guantanamo is very serious, and we cannot forget the democrats of the world. but if it is one of the most serious violations of human rights that exists at this moment in human history, i would say that it is also very serious, and we must not forget that it is the united states that must leave this cuban enclave, where there is the sovereignty of a country into which the american boot must not enter. and i also say that the united kingdom must leave gibraltar, as turkey must leave northern cyprus, as morocco must leave western sahara, because our civilization ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i sincerely believe that 43 people, according to official sources, or 130 according to human rights organizations, deserved the respect of this house, and that a resolution should be passed. they're on hunger strike for very good reasons. we must remember that all countries -- i repeat -- all countries, must comply with international law, and that includes the united states. in 2009, president obama, also a nobel peace prize winner -- as well as the european union -- pledged to close guantanamo. but to date, he has not used his presidential powers to end the arbitrary and uncharged detention of some 160 prisoners of war. to use - as some of the ppe members have done - the regrettable and reprehensible events in boston to prevent this position is yet another example of the double standard that some members have in relation to the violation of human rights.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want to start by vehemently condemning the horrible bomb attacks in boston this monday. i express my solidarity with the victims, their families, the american people and the authorities. as we have discussed today, the hunger strike started in guantánamo more than two months ago. last week, the us military said that 43 of the 166 guantánamo prisoners have refused food. defence lawyers estimate that 100 to 130 inmates have joined the strike. we can discuss the exact figures, but it is of course a very serious situation. and behind these figures, there is a collective act of despair, with some prisoners detained for up to 11 years still facing indefinite detention without charge, without trial. according to the department of defence, 11 guantánamo prisoners have lost so much weight that the us authorities have decided to force-feed them through tubes inserted into their noses. this of course raises complex legal and ethical questions related to the practice. while the principle of the autonomy of the patients and the right to consent to medical treatments has to be respected, the necessity of force-feeding and its legality with regard to international law should be assessed on a case-by-case basis, and obviously the european union does not have detailed information on the individual cases. however, i can give reassurance that we are following this with great attention, as the recent remarks made publicly by the president of the international committee of the red cross have raised many concerns. other reports and allegations regarding the conditions of detention in guantánamo, as well as the rising tensions within the facility, are also matters of concern to us. beyond these questions, i am convinced that the best humane response to this dramatic situation is to reactivate the political process leading to the complete closure of the guantánamo detention facility. respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law lie at the heart of the eu’s approach to countering terrorism. the fight against terrorism cannot be used to justify practices such as unlawful arrest, arbitrary detention and ill-treatment of detainees. as you know, all of the eu institutions – the council, the commission and the parliament – have taken a very firm stand on this issue, calling consistently for the closure of guantánamo. we repeat that call today. while stressing that the primary responsibility rests with the united states, the eu responded – as a friend and a partner – to the administration’s requests for assistance. in june 2009, the eu, its member states and the usa adopted a common framework within which a number of eu member states accepted over 20 ex-detainees for resettlement. since then, the us congress has adopted controversial provisions within the national defense authorization acts for 2012 and 2013. they provide for the indefinite detention without trial of certain categories of suspected terrorists and dramatically limit the ability of the administration to use federal money to transfer guantánamo detainees. on several occasions, including at ministerial level, the eu has shared our concerns with the us administration about the compatibility of these provisions with international law, and the possible undesirable consequences for transatlantic cooperation on fighting terrorism. we are the usa’s closest friend and ally. we shall remain committed to supporting efforts to fight terrorism, as well as the efforts of the us administration towards the complete closure of the guantánamo detention facility.
the debate is closed.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
i call mr posselt. i ask you to be careful, mr. posselt. you say what you have to say, and i'll listen to you with all due respect.
mr posselt, first of all i must tell you that i do not hear you with interpretation, i hear you in german. and last time you not only did not say what you have now said, but you said something else, among other things, because you did not speak of communism, but of trotskyism. his memory's starting to falter. in any case, i listen to him with respect, i accept his opinions, including his opinions on how a president should or should not preside. i don't know if you've had a chance to sit here in the 20 years you've been here. as you will probably be following twenty others, i hope that in the coming legislatures you will earn the confidence of the members to be vice-president, or president of this parliament, and that you will be able to lead the debates from here as we lead them with our best know-how. i respect you, but i want to explain something. i have protected, as i believe a president should protect, a member of parliament who felt he was being attacked. i would like to say to you that if, using the irony or sarcasm that some other member might use, you were called an irredeemable bismarck, i would protect you as president, because it is the president who understands whether or not a colleague has been attacked, who is watching and who sees that a member has indeed been attacked.
we could then refer to other bavarian leaders who have also played a decisive role, and with some authoritarianism, in the history of their country.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 5 p.m.)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur because i think he has produced a balanced report in terms of the context in which it was produced and its objectives. in the end, the aim of this report - and i think the commissioner has put it very well - is to discuss in a broad way the major problems and the major limitations of the development of renewable energies at the moment, especially in those dimensions which are more pan-european. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say - and we must not forget the purpose of this report - that we are talking about one of the aspects that must be considered in an energy policy. so until the commission proposes a direction, a direction, for what it proposes to be climate change policy and energy policy from the year 2020, that is, the road to the year 2030, it does not really make much sense for us to set specifically new targets, higher targets than there are right now. because we have to look at the whole of the interaction between the different dimensions that are affecting energy policy and climate change policy and, among other things, the issues that have to do with the development, for example, of the emissions market, for which we are also waiting for a proposal for revised structural measures from the commission.
blue-card question. – mr president, just responding to one of the first things the commissioner said, i would like to know what mr turmes’s perception of the current situation in spain is. specifically, what does mr turmes think about the elimination of some public aids on the renewals, and what can we do to eliminate the retroactivity of this kind of measure, as the commissioner pointed out in his first speech?
blue card question. what is it? mr turmes, could you tell me exactly where the spanish government has announced that it is going to develop new nuclear power stations or where exactly it has said that renewable energies must be reduced? i want an answer, if possible, accurate. exactly when, how and where this type of policy is published and implemented.
mr president, mr commissioner, renewables certainly play a strategic role in europe. it is no longer just an environmental requirement, but also a step towards security of supply and competitiveness. if our current target of 20% by 2020 is to be even exceeded without the need for changes in the current energy model, it seems clear that our targets must be more ambitious. that is why we are calling for a new target: to reach 40% to 45% by 2030. i must admit to the sceptics that in order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to improve existing technologies and support new ones. as rapporteur for the horizon 2020 framework programme, i can assure you that we are working to make research into renewable energy innovation one of the pillars of the new programme, because we also know that technological advances in this area will allow us to create jobs, increase competitiveness and maintain european industrial leadership. this is extremely important given the current economic situation, although - certainly mr turmes - the spanish government does not seem to have noticed.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the terrible accident in the gulf of mexico was the last occasion for us to propose a european regulation on safety standards for offshore oil and gas drilling. i am very grateful to you, mr belet, and to your colleagues. without the involvement of parliament we would not have brought the proposal with the council to the result we have today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised by the fact that the shipping industry is not able to compete with the shipping industry. this strengthens the environmental security of our european neighbours in the north sea, the atlantic, the mediterranean and the black sea, but it also gives us another authority for negotiations with the usa and asia. and the european oil industry has committed itself to applying the standards not only here, but also - keyword libya, keyword nigeria, keyword arctic - outside of our own eu territory. we have with this legislative proposal concrete standards for the independence of the regulatory authorities, the licensing authorities, the supervisory authorities. we have best practice, very high standards of operational practice which all companies must observe, and we also have an obligation for member states which are not themselves trainers, if they have companies operating outside europe, to ensure that these companies also apply the relevant standards outside the territory. we are all concerned about whether the rules can be circumvented. let 's be clear . the member states have a full responsibility towards us too, to ensure that circumvention of the aims of our directive is not allowed, but prevented. i am making this statement not only today but also to the council and on other occasions so that this directive, when applied, will be a success and not be circumvented by loopholes within it. we have a clear rule on the independence of the authorities. we have a financial arrangement for environmental liability. we regularly receive reports on the activities of industry. we have committed the eu oil industry to follow best practice outside the eu. we have developed strict criteria for emergency response to oil spills, especially in ecologically valuable waters and border waters. we involve our employees in safety plans because they are affected, offshore in the appropriate workplaces. we have already made environmental considerations mandatory when we approved the project. all in all, this is a major step forward for nature, the environment and the safety of workers at sea. i believe that this will enable europe to draw the necessary conclusions from the many accidents which have occurred in recent years and decades. thank you for your support and for your foreseeable approval.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and, of course, the rapporteurs from the other committees and the alternate rapporteurs. i believe that we are faced here with a proposal for future legislation which enjoys a high degree of consensus in this parliament. it is clear from what we have heard, and despite the limitations that may have been found in each committee or political group, that in the end we are faced with a highly consensual position of parliament. i think that on this occasion, moreover, the convergence with the commission proposal - which we see on many other occasions, but on this one i want to stress it especially - has been very high. the result, as has been said in virtually all the speeches and explained in a very systematic way by the commissioner, is that europe is at the forefront, in a very advanced position in terms of protection and in terms of guarantees, in terms of the requirements that all offshore exploration and exploitation activities have to meet, both in relation to oil and gas. we are in europe in a situation of extraordinary energy dependence, in some countries certainly much more than in others. it would be a very regrettable mistake to limit the possibility of incorporating new areas for new sources and what needs to be done is to take steps in the direction that has been taken: greater security and greater guarantees. that is clearly the way forward, in my view and in the opinion of my group.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to stress one specific point which, at the request of my group, has been included in the final agreement: the obligation to comply with the requirements of the directive on the assessment of the effects of plans and programmes on the environment prior to the government's authorization. and it is important because the selection of the drilling sequence, the number of drilling holes, their location and their characteristics are not harmless from the point of view of the environmental effects they may produce and therefore should not be the subject of a unilateral decision by the operator. we have also introduced the necessary precautions on possible risks to natura 2000 sites. however, i regret that the text does not take into account my group's amendment, which warned of the impact of prospecting on fishing, tourism and the harvesting of seawater for desalination and supply to the population. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, this directive on oil exploration has been proposed in the wake of the gulf of mexico disaster, but what we are trying to do is to control new oil exploration and to prevent another accident like the one that has occurred. now, the authorizations will be given by the states. in spain there are several provinces where oil prospections are to be carried out, such as in the albufera, a nature reserve, or in gandia, or also in the canary islands, an incomparable natural and tourist site. the surveys do not take account of community directives. the socialist group has tabled three amendments, one on the impact report, the second on the natura network, but another very important one on the consideration of the tourist and economic area, which has not been done. we consider it vital for the recovery of employment and the recovery of the economy that the existence of a tourist and fishing area be recognized in the face of the existence of oil prospects.
mr president, commissioner, we are dealing with a directive which strengthens the safety measures for offshore oil installations. facilities that are already subject to very restrictive regulation, and i welcome that. i was pleased to hear the commissioner speak because i was surprised at the determination of some to try to prevent any activity by member states, which are also under close scrutiny, without taking into account that third countries may be carrying out the same work in the same environment and with different security measures. the commissioner said that this was a great step forward, and i am glad of it, especially at a time when the debate is open in the canary islands and when some, with high political responsibilities, but with obvious irresponsibility, are trying to prevent any kind of activity on grounds other than their own political and electoral interests. today, the european institutions are once again saying loud and clear that these activities are not only feasible but can be beneficial, provided that the safety measures guaranteed by this directive are respected. we cannot turn our backs on a source of wealth like this, always complying with safety measures, the rest is pure demagogy.
mr president, commissioner, eurema is, but a mechanism for the permanent relocation of beneficiaries of international protection to europe is needed. the figures speak for themselves and show that demand is not identical. between september and december 2012, the average number of asylum applications per million inhabitants was 205. in malta, 1 040, in cyprus, 680 and in sweden 1 490. however, not only these statistics but also the capacity to receive them must be taken into account. that is why we are talking, mr president, about shared solidarity. if, as it seems, a system based on annual quotas and mandatory for all states is not possible at the moment, we should at least have a voluntary system, a distribution key that encourages the generosity and solidarity of states to take in people in need of international protection. for a eurema ii, only 7 member states and 14 relocated persons seem a disappointing figure. the financial funds - €6 000 per person - and the announced legislative proposal which we are calling for today should help to develop policies for intra-european resettlement, strengthening the common area of protection as a whole and ensuring its administrative processing, as well as the human rights of the beneficiaries, the shared sharing of responsibilities and the international obligations undertaken.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the fact that parliament intends to bring this process to an end, at least as far as the need to give an opinion on the protocol is concerned. i share the view that while it was part of the deal to ensure the czech ratification of the lisbon treaty, it is imperative that fundamental rights are upheld everywhere in the eu for all citizens. it is now for parliament, alone, to decide on its answer to consultation. but i do think that the next step will be for the competent czech authorities to decide for themselves whether they want this protocol at all. i am not contesting the political deal but i do wonder whether it still has the support of the czech government and people.
madam president, i want to denounce to this parliament the immense damage that the troika - to which the commission chaired by mr barroso belongs - and its demands are causing to the very idea of the european union and to the work, health and lives of millions of europeans. asking for more austerity for those who no longer have a job, lack some medicines or even - as has happened in valencia - have a prosthesis removed from them in the same hospital because they cannot pay one hundred and fifty-two euros, and asking for that austerity just so that they can collect the creditors in time and form, has ceased to be a political action to become a criminal action, lacking political and human sensitivity. let us not make this policy cause suffering, let us not make millions of europeans abandon their europeanism by blaming the european union for something which is the responsibility of the absolute right, the majority in the european union and its institutions, and let us please dedicate ourselves to financing welfare, education for young people, employment and growth and to making the european union dignified and humane, because it is no longer that!
madam president, in the european union housing should be a fundamental right and not a commodity. unfortunately, that is not the case. in my country, spain, 400 000 families have been evicted, while the european court of justice has ruled that spain's mortgage law is contrary to the european directive of 1993 - it had to be a european court, not the european commission. and the european commission should be the most vigilant so that housing is indeed understood as a fundamental right. the government of andalusia, in spain, has tried to bring forward, and is getting it, a law that effectively guarantees the right to housing to all citizens, so that they do not go through the torture of eviction. i hope that the european commission will rise to the occasion and that the glaring silence in the face of the 1993 mortgage law will not now turn into action against the law that is about to be passed in andalusia.
madam president, i have come to report this afternoon that the government of the people's party and the aragonese regionalist party in my region, aragon, have just added to the turmoil, the cuts and the attacks on employment, education, health and culture a new chapter that adds more tension, uncertainty and turmoil, and now around the languages spoken by thousands of aragonese who until now believed that they spoke aragonese and catalan respectively - universally recognized languages and have now risen to find that they speak something called pao and papip. the repeal of the 2009 law on languages, which protected, protected and promoted them, and the adoption of a new rule that decides to give them an unscientific name has filled us with embarrassment and responds, moreover, to the acronyms, as i said, of the pao for catalan and the papip for aragonese, unleashing the indignation of the aragonese citizens of the alcampell and fraga strip, of the matarraña in teruel and, in general, to all. i would ask you, madam president, to repeat your warning and condemnation, as you have done at the request of the members of the intergroup on minority languages. the government of aragon, instead of listening to the reasonable words of this house, has created a scientific error of grave consequences and which also forces, instead of promoting the languages spoken in aragon, to speak something in which no aragonese is recognized.
mr president, the geier report is a timely, necessary and realistic report, which i welcome and congratulate the rapporteur on. the reality of european industry requires a broad, cross-cutting, medium- and long-term approach. reusing the assets we have and being able - because we have the best human capital - to move towards the necessary change of industrial model, helping the industrialized regions that have ceased to be so. we need a strong industry geared to the markets of the future. as the author says, the report seeks to exploit and underpin the synergies of industrial and cohesion policy. planning for the best result, which unfortunately does not happen in my country: while we are debating here how to use the funds, an education reform has been launched which aims to use the european social fund for a segregating and regressive educational model, instead of reinforcing and promoting talent and excellence, which are needed today more than ever. commissioner, today we must demand that regional funds, european funds, be used for development. mostly to re-industrialize and not to segregate.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his report, because it opens up a vital debate. the lisbon treaty did not include systems of financial supervision and economic governance because of the opposition of the states. the crisis has forced us to put them into action. for the same reasons, the treaty introduced a timid reference to local and regional authorities, which is far from what they are and deserve. this report recalls that european policies and funds work better, generate more innovation, employment and development and involve people and their business initiatives more and better when they are planned and coordinated with municipalities and regions. we have had that experience in the basque country, and the report cites one of its symbols, the transformation of bilbao. it is therefore urgent that the european institutions should recognise that regions, natural communities, and efficient units with an economic identity, which are no longer part of the institutional architecture, are not a problem but rather an excellent opportunity. they have shown that they help to generate development and thus build europe from the bottom up, close to the hopes, needs, well-being and initiatives of citizens.
mr president, in just a few days it will be one year since the council adopted a great plan for growth and employment of which, a year later, we know hardly anything. it would be good if this council could make way for something more effective, faster and unblocked by those countries which are holding back the fight against tax evasion. we need more means, and we need them now. we need means to combat this great destructive fire of youth unemployment. it is destructive to the lives of young people, it is destructive to trust in the institutions and it is destructive to the very project of the european union. in my country, youth unemployment was dramatic in 2011. in 2013, with the new government of mr rajoy, it is even more dramatic: 14 points more youth unemployment. so we need the money to fight it. i have mentioned spain because it is the country where this problem is most acute. the president of the commission has spoken of fairness, and i want to refer to fairness in taxation. any attempt to implement fiscal amnesties must be pursued. the spanish government has launched a tax amnesty that allows for the payment of 10% of the money that has been hidden. it is beneficial to those who have evaded it; it is demoralizing to citizens who pay; it is a privilege to those who falsify; and it is an offense to responsible citizens and law-abiding citizens.
mr president, many eyes are watching the reform we are discussing with interest because, since the beginning of the economic crisis, summits have been held in the g20 and the oecd to try to combat the opaque economy, the one that flows through the sewers of lack of solidarity or greed into tax havens. and, unfortunately, their agreements have hardly ever been put into practice. the draft that is circulating for the next european summit estimates that the european public coffers will lose more than a trillion euros. we must be very clear in the reform and prevent the contradictions that exist within the european union itself: european countries sitting in the council and whose internal regulations are condescending and benevolent towards these practices. we must therefore be clear-sighted, because the citizens are looking at us and expecting a response. it is urgent that there should be a clear framework, an institutional framework of public transparency, and that the union should be a paradise, but a paradise of good law.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr. la via, i have a question for you. i could ask you or another colleague, but i see that you do have a very good background in the subject. in this debate various tax havens have been mentioned, sometimes the island of jersey or the cayman islands, or barbados; also, unfortunately, some member states of the european union. but there is one vox populi on the continent, which is the city of london. is london itself a big tax haven, or the biggest of them all? do you share it or not? and if you share it, would you have to fight it too?
i would like to take this opportunity of mrs in 't veld, chairman of the parliament's secular platform, to welcome to the gallery a group of ladies from the louise weiss lodge, a lodge belonging to the great women's lodge of france, which deals with specifically european issues within its organisation and which collaborates with us in an effective way.
mr president, i want to make two brief points. youth unemployment and, above all, the disaffection it causes among young people, cannot be allowed to wait any longer or to delay. the spring 2012 european council pompously announced the activation of no less than €100 billion for youth employment. a year later, nothing. on the contrary, the multiannual financial framework in the european budgets makes this impossible, as it projects a paltry amount of 3 000 million fresh money, so how do you want young people to believe that 60 billion euros are now going to be put into operation without financial guarantee? secondly, this discussion has seen differences between us on how to combat tax evasion and tax havens outside the european union. the unfortunate thing is that we cannot agree on how to combat this within the european union, because within the european union there is still unfair tax competition between member states, which is not in line with the rules of the single market. there is still unfair competition in corporate taxation and, above all, there is still tax secrecy within the european union. it is essential, before we can fight it outside the european union, that we are able to secure the rules of fiscal harmonization within the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european council will also be discussing energy policy tomorrow. i am grateful to mr van rompuy for this. i see this as a clear sign that the europeanisation of energy policy is supported in principle by the heads of state or government. what's this about? the first is, as you have said, the completion of the internal market. we are working towards a functioning european market for electricity and gas, as it has been for other products and services in europe for decades - textiles, food, cars, machinery, human services, social services, financial services. and a crucial point for achieving it is the implementation of our european laws the second and third single market packages , which is why we advise the member states and also stand trial: we have a number of infringement procedures to ensure that the legislation is implemented where it has not been adopted in time by the parliaments. then it comes down to infrastructure. you have rightly mentioned the subject of a modern pan-european gas and electricity infrastructure. we will present our projects of common interest in the summer. these are interconnectors gas and electricity lines which are of common cross-border importance for several member states. and of course we could invest more money in the connecting europe facility, but the €5.1 billion that the european council has provided, and which is now probably decisive for the next seven years, is still a means by which many infrastructures can be co-financed. the european investment bank is also involved. with all these tools, we are confident that many infrastructures will be earlier, faster and cheaper for the consumer to realize in the next seven years. i would like to say in general terms that in the past, energy was not a factor in european households. we will have eur 17 billion in the next multiannual financial framework, available from the cohesion funds, for energy efficiency, for the renovation of buildings with the aim of saving energy. we will have 5 billion euros for infrastructure, and we will have 6 to 7 billion euros for energy research. this means that energy will play a far greater role in the next financial framework than ever before at european level. one issue has been brought to the fore today: energy prices. i'm grateful for that. we have to decide in europe: how much money can we pay for energy? it is about the small man, the small woman, the poor household, who have to pay more and more for transport, light, heating, cooling, communication, and it is about industrial jobs. we must decide the question: do we want to have industrial value added in europe where industry is energy intensive? in the raw materials industry - steel, copper, aluminium, carbon, ceramics, paper, chlorine, chemicals, industrial textiles - in all these sectors the issue of energy costs is now more important than labour costs. that is why we need affordable energy in the global competition. in the past, we have priced energy. that was our old philosophy. we have made energy expensive for two reasons: first, to solve our budgetary problems. taxes, levies and contributions on energy have been a revenue factor for our state budgets. and the second reason was energy efficiency -- which is expensive, so you're going to conserve it. i think the peak of energy pricing is behind us. we now have every reason to be sensitive to further increases in gas and electricity prices. the basic decision facing us all is whether we want to make energy more expensive or whether we want to make it cheaper for industrial jobs and for social reasons. the price of gas in europe is four times higher than in the united states, and the average price of electricity is twice as high. i believe that this is where the competition for the preservation of industrial value added has started and energy has become a key factor, which is why i am grateful that the european council will be dealing with this tomorrow and will give mr barroso a good preparation for comparing energy prices on a global scale.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank this house for the views it has expressed during this debate. today i have presented the way forward for a stronger eu approach to tax fraud and tax evasion. your strong support and constructive approach in this area is an important signal for our member states. i think we can see an overwhelming majority in this house today which supports the key principles presented by the commission to our member states and which are also reflected in the two reports which we have just discussed today. i think there is a common understanding that we need to extend the scope of automatic exchange of information in the eu and to deal with it in the global arena. we have to ensure that this automatic exchange of information becomes an international standard and that all overseas territories, including major financial centres in asia, become subject to the automatic exchange of information. i also welcome your support for the proposals on how to deal with aggressive tax planning and the fight against tax havens. some of you expressed the view that business is not philanthropy. i fully agree with that, but what we are proposing is a general anti-abuse rule which should be introduced in our member states. we also propose changing the double tax conventions in order to introduce these rules here as well. this is a legal approach to dealing with aggressive tax planning. the same could be said about tax havens. the definition which we presented in our proposal is much broader than the oecd definition of tax havens. i would like to see our member states applying this definition thoroughly and blacklisting countries which do not cooperate in tax matters. i think that, with the platform for tax good governance, we can ensure that this blacklisting exercise has a coordinated stance. i welcome the speeches urging the council to adopt swiftly the proposals on fighting vat fraud – the so-called quick reaction mechanism and the reverse charge package. i hope tomorrow’s european council will instruct the ecofin council to adopt these proposals before the end of the irish presidency. some of you raised the issue of developing countries, saying that we also need to work on improving the tax systems in these countries. i have to say that we are doing this and have negotiated agreements with around 20 countries on the application of the principles of tax good governance. we are continuing negotiations with 18 countries on the adoption of such principles. the commission is of course ready to provide assistance to developing countries in order to implement tax good governance principles in those countries. i also proposed this very recently in our meeting with the african union commission in addis ababa. there were a few very specific statements. first, on the financial transaction tax by mr gunnar hökmark: i completely disagree with his approach, as i think that bad experiences in some countries in the past – and sweden is an example of such a bad experience – should not preclude progress in this area. we have to go ahead with the financial transaction tax, because it is a fair tax and will ensure a fair contribution from the financial sector to public finance. it will also reduce the level of speculation in the financial sector and will allow resources to be reallocated to financing the real economy. this will also have an impact on the growth and jobs that we badly need. with regard to the very specific issue of taxes paid by eu staff: here i think that mr farage was completely wrong in his comments, because the salaries of eu officials are subject to a progressive tax at a rate from 8% up to 45%. this is a net tax, as officials have no right to deduction under any tax regime. staff also pay 11.6% of their salary into a pension scheme and 1.7% into sickness insurance. finally, officials were paying 5.5% as a special levy, which has been suspended since january following a council decision. the commission has proposed increasing the levy to 6%. this is the situation regarding eu staff in relation to their tax obligation. finally on concrete points, mrs in ‘t veld raised the issue of access to information. the commission has already provided part of this information and, due to the huge scope of the information, it has proposed holding a meeting to identify the criteria on which it could be provided. i can reassure you that all information which is subject to the access to information rules will be provided to you as required. tomorrow’s summit offers our member states a major opportunity to demonstrate that bold decisions should follow rhetorical declarations. as european parliamentarians, you have an important role to play in your respective countries. i have already had an opportunity to see how your work can have an impact on the position of your respective member states in the discussions we have at eu level in the fight against tax fraud and evasion. i look forward to continued cooperation in delivering and responding to the expectations of european citizens.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank the members for what i think has been a very interesting and helpful debate. once again, my thanks go to the rapporteurs mrs kleva kekuš and mrs gáll-pelcz, not only for the excellent work they have done in terms of the reports they have produced, but also in the contributions they have made here today. i sense, from the various interventions this morning, that we share many of the same objectives regarding the future development of europe’s energy policy, as well as on the need to address a wide-range of taxation issues, most notably tackling tax fraud and evasion. i would like to briefly recap on the focussed intervention which the presidency has taken, together with the commission, following our discussions at the informal ecofin which took place in dublin. there we identified seven areas, some of which have already been alluded to by the commissioner. those key points which have been identified include an agreement on the mandate for the commission to begin negotiations with five european third countries – andorra, liechtenstein, monaco, san marino and switzerland – and to align eu savings taxation agreements with those countries with the extended scope of the proposed revised savings tax directive. as ms ferreira and others asked about this, i want to confirm that this mandate has been agreed by the council, and that is a significant step forward. another issue which is being focused on is agreement on the revised savings tax directive proposal, as are agreement on strong and robust council conclusions on the commission action plan and recommendations on tackling tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, including agreement on eu coordination at g20 and oecd level on the base erosion and profit-shifting work, which has already been agreed. i think mr callanan and others mentioned the need for global action, and i agree with that. so, it is important that the eu has a coordinated approach to that, and that is being worked on. agreement on the presidency vat anti-fraud package is very important, and the commissioner has mentioned it specifically. we are nearly there and we are very hopeful that it will be adopted at the june ecofin, so we are very close to getting that across the line. moving on to adoption of the fiscalis 2020 programme – again, that has been agreed – and agreement that automatic exchange of information, involving a broader range of income and capital payments, should be our objective, and that work at eu level should begin without delay on devising the specifics of such broader exchange, building on international developments of recent years, i am very pleased to say that, of the seven measures that have been identified, four of these have since been agreed and two are extremely well advanced and are very close to being agreed. as the presidency, we are firmly committed to maintaining the issues discussed today and putting them high on the council’s agenda. we will work together with the incoming lithuanian presidency and future presidencies, to ensure that the outcome of tomorrow’s meeting is properly followed up and implemented and that there is an ongoing assessment. that is a clear message that i will take away from the european parliament today, and one which our presidency takes very seriously. turning to energy, there has been a very good debate today here also. a number of speakers, including mr daul at the start of the debate, strongly made the point that there is a need for a predictable investment framework which incentivises the mobilisation of capital to fund infrastructure investment, particularly for interconnection. parliament and the presidency can help with one measure on this front through the finalisation of the proposed regulation on the connecting europe facility, which our institutions are currently negotiating. members also highlighted the importance of price increases to customers and also the potentially huge implications of threats to security of supply, and there were references to the risk of the lights potentially going out. that brings home just how important this subject is, with both cost and security of supply raising the unacceptable spectre of people being vulnerable to the cold in their own homes. mr swoboda emphasised the importance of investment policy more generally in europe in the context of youth employment. his points in relation to the field of energy are equally well made. i might add that, although it is not a topic specifically for discussion at the european council tomorrow, his point about the front-loading for youth unemployment has been heard and certainly merits further consideration, and the council is absolutely ready to do that. mr president, within this house today we have heard differences of emphasis but, for the large part, i think there has not been disagreement. the importance of energy policy to jobs and growth has been emphasised by almost all members, and the direct effects of rising prices on consumers and households have been very clearly and emphatically spelled out. the debate has highlighted the fact that sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply are absolutely essential and are also interlinked. indeed, the informal meeting in dublin in april, bringing together eu environment and energy ministers, agreed that developing a climate and energy framework, and maintaining eu competitiveness, are complimentary goals and should be pursued as such. tomorrow’s discussion at the european council will be a very important one in guiding the balance in a policy area with very clear and direct impacts on consumers, the environment and our economy, as well as jobs and growth. so we look forward to concrete outcomes from that council, and i would like to thank members once again for their input.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few minutes. (the sitting was suspended for a moment) written declarations (rule 149)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report with my group in this house because it lays the foundations for cooperation with the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka in the field of aviation. this report seeks to implement a judgment of the court of justice of the european union which declared a clause giving member states the power to refuse, revoke or suspend an airline's licence to operate in a member state contrary to eu law. the report therefore seeks to revoke one of the 'horizontal agreements' so that the powers of refusal, revocation or suspension of permits in this area fall to the european union and not to the member states. as the report is only intended to speed up and eliminate the problems arising from the bilateral agreements to establish a joint negotiation in the field of air transport with sri lanka, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and sri lanka. the establishment of a strong legal basis between sri lanka and the european union and the prohibition of anti-competitive practices were key elements of this recommendation and of the agreement signed by the european commission, which is why i voted in favour of the recommendation put forward by petri sarvamaa.
in writing. − in favour. traditionally, international aviation relations between member states and third countries are governed by bilateral air service agreements. these agreements include a ‘designation clause’, which allows a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a member state but that is not substantially owned or effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. sri lanka has signed 15 bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which must be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement concluded on behalf of the union. more specifically, article 2 of the agreement governs designation, authorisation and revocation of authorisation and clearly states that in exercising its rights, sri lanka shall not discriminate between air carriers of member states on the grounds of nationality. article 4 resolves potential conflicts with the competition rules of the union. the agreement was signed on 27 september 2012. in its decision of 26 november 2012, the council requested that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the development of the single european area to be a step forward for the union. the report seeks to promote cooperation between member states in the field of air navigation with a view to creating the future single area. this impetus is reflected in the establishment of cooperation modalities and mechanisms and in the special role given to eurocontrol as the eu's 'technical and operational arm' in this field. the development towards the single european area will make it possible to reduce red tape between the countries of the union and to facilitate and promote the activity of the air navigation sector. it is for all these reasons, which will benefit the sector, that i have decided to vote in favour, together with my group in this parliament.
in writing. − in favour. eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation with 39 contracting parties from all over europe, including all the member states except estonia. it plays a pivotal role in air traffic management (atm) in europe. in line with the single european sky (ses) legislation, the commission designated eurocontrol as the performance review body of the ses in 2010 and as the network manager for the atm network functions in 2011. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen and consolidate cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol in order to enable the latter to support the eu in the implementation of the ses and related eu policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it includes an improvement in information archives and provides greater access to the historical archives of the various european institutions. the report seeks to replace the traditional practice of granting access to archives through the conditions laid down in a specific contract between the commission and the european university institute in florence. the proposal for this report replaces this contract with a council regulation regulating the term and thus improving the transparency of the historical archives of these institutions. it is the improvement of transparency in the european institutions that i have voted for this report.
in writing. as a historian, i can only welcome such a vote. i have given my agreement to the transfer of the archives of the various european institutions to the european institute in florence (ief) to enable them to be consulted by the greatest number of people and by researchers interested in the functioning of the european institutions and in the history of european integration.
in writing. − in favour. the historical archives of the eu institutions represent an important source of information on the history and legacy of the european union. therefore it is essential to provide access to the archives for public consultation and for the preservation of information about the eu institutions, and to support research about the history of european integration. the proposal for a council regulation which is currently being examined under the consent procedure by the european parliament (rule 81(1) of its rules of procedure) provides a more solid legal and financial framework for the cooperation between the eu and the eui. at the same time it also enhances the role of the eui, which is intended to manage the historical archives of the eu institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because there are timing problems in some member states, as the first council proposal set the period for holding the elections between 5 and 8 june 2014, which coincides with pentecost in some member states. in order to encourage participation in the holding of this electoral process, the council made another proposal with two options in may, of which this report includes the second, according to which the next elections to the european parliament would be held between 25 and 28 may 2014. such dates are the best option within the council's proposal as they would not entail an increase in the financial cost and would allow a sufficient period of time for the formation of parliament's political groups before the first plenary session to be held in july 2014. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. this report was drawn up in response to a request for consultation from the council on a draft decision seeking to modify the period during which the forthcoming european elections would ordinarily have been held. under article 11(2) of the act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage (the ‘electoral act’), this period would have been thursday, 5 to sunday, 8 june 2014, by analogy with the dates on which the first elections by direct universal suffrage were held (thursday, 9 to sunday, 12 june 1979). in paragraph 5 of its resolution of 22 november 2012 (1), the european parliament asked the council to ‘consult parliament on holding the elections on either 15-18 may or 22-25 may 2014’. given that, in most member states, the dates on which the elections would ordinarily have been held would have coincided with the whitsun bank holiday weekend, the council took the view that it would be preferable to bring them forward and proposed that the electoral period should run between thursday, 22 and sunday, 25 may 2014.
in writing. − in favour. on the basis of the considerations established in the report, and pursuant to article 6(3) of the rules of procedure, after considering the reasons for and against defending the member’s immunity, the committee on legal affairs recommended that the european parliament should not defend the parliamentary immunity of gabriele albertini.
in writing. − in favour. at the sitting of 14 january 2013 the president announced, under rule 6(2) of the rules of procedure, that he had received a request from the greek authorities to waive the parliamentary immunity of spyros danellis. the president referred the request to the committee on legal affairs under rule 6(2). mr danellis is accused of dereliction of duty for having, allegedly, in his former position as mayor of hersonissos, omitted to take steps to close an establishment operating in his municipality despite the existence of a decision by the sanitary authorities which required such steps to be taken. on the basis of the considerations made in the report, after considering the reasons for and against waiving the member’s immunity, it is recommended that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of spyros danellis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the application of the rules laid down in directive 2004/25/ec on public procurement also concerns business law, labour law, corporate governance, etc. the directive establishes community rules on public procurement, emphasising the need for public procurement procedures to be transparent and to allow equal treatment in order to avoid fraudulent practices. the directive calls for the standardisation of award procedures in all member states to ensure equal access for all economic operators in the eu. but the directive must cover all economic operators and not just at the time when this type of public procurement has fallen the most; it makes no sense to change these rules until the volume of activity in this sector returns to normal. the report also calls on the commission to take account of the representatives of workers in the sector. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − in favour. after decades of failed attempts, the directive was finally adopted by the european parliament at the end of 2003 in second reading and published in the official journal in april 2004. member states were given until may 2006 to transpose the provisions of the directive into their national laws. it is an unfortunate coincidence that the transposition date of the directive coincides with the start of the crisis. in the light of these findings the ep believes that the application of the directive cannot be properly assessed only on the basis of limited data being available. the ep therefore suggests that more relevant data is needed in order to establish not only the need for changes to the directive but also the precise harmonisation steps to be taken next.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the requirements for european funds must be reformulated to allow for the financing of new productive initiatives in areas undergoing industrial conversion. the report argues that regional and structural funds are needed in old industrial areas in the midst of industrial conversion and that cohesion policy funds can finance industrial regeneration policies. in view of the extreme emergency generated by the growth of unemployment in many european countries, it is essential to allow the financial instruments to be used to generate jobs in the areas of the union most in need. the report includes some points on public-private partnerships which i do not share, but the extreme need for the areas under conversion is the fundamental reason for voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the report underlines that regions are different even if they share similar characteristics such as an old industrial base, and that there is no blueprint for a regional development / conversion strategy. it points out common features of old industrialised regions and identifies opportunities for solutions, in particular the different policy instruments offered by cohesion policy to tackle the challenges of old industrialised areas. the report highlights that the sustainable regeneration of old industrialised regions is very costly and therefore european funding needs to play an important role in possible future attempts to reconvert old industrialised regions. it shall also bring a contribution to – and shape – the decision-making process in support of future integrated territorial investment and policy delivery for the 2014-2020 period.
in writing. - i voted against this report because once again there is an attempt to endanger marine ecosystems just to guarantee maximum profits for oil companies. the report follows the commission's initiative to harmonise safety standards for these types of farms following, amongst others, the bp oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010. it initially included a number of points of interest, but the amendments adopted have left on wet paper what could have been a justified tool for control and accountability in the sector. the report adopted reduces the european maritime safety agency's capacity to intervene, the moratorium on oil exploration in the arctic is lifted, the financial obligations of oil companies are not clearly laid down, etc. for all these reasons, and particularly because it allows fishing in the waters of the balearic islands and the canary islands, i voted against this report with my group in this parliament.
in writing. − against. fundamentally, this legislation fails to achieve what it set out to achieve, and for many member states with existing operations it is business as usual. this may not provide sufficient protection against a deepwater horizon type incident in union waters. although it is generally felt that some legislation on offshore extraction is better than no eu legislation, greens had proposed two key amendments that were rejected during the vote. one: reintroduction of envi’s recital for a moratorium on the arctic, and two: a proposal of a moratorium on sensitive touristic and coastal areas (e.g. the canary islands). we lost both.
in writing. - i voted against amendment no 3 because the text is drafted in a very general way: it includes all tourist areas. the safety of these activities is of particular concern to the mep, who recently asked the european commission about the compliance of the mediterranean sea authorisations with the agreements signed through the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea (oj l 4, 9.1.2013, p. 13) and with the provisions contained in directive 2008/56/ec, which establishes the framework for community action on marine environment policy.
mr president, i have supported this report on renewable energy because it contains important suggestions for improving our current regulation. the commission must take account of the contributions and commitments made by the member states in terms of figures and deadlines and improve the monitoring of the policies they apply. it is essential to set new targets with percentages and deadlines, and to provide legal certainty and stability to a sector which innovates, invests and is a clear source of skilled employment. regulatory arbitrariness and retroactivity in spain, for example, have caused real damage to companies and entrepreneurs who have the potential and can bring changes to the spanish development model, the real basis of the country's employment and economic problems. the decarbonisation targets are now being met, but this approach jeopardises future possibilities. finally, i believe that a stronger commitment must be made to decentralized generation with renewable energy, self-consumption and storage, which are very important in promoting a fundamental change in the electricity sector. ensure supply, promote more responsible efficiency and consumption cultures and make their effects on co2 emissions more visible.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new missed opportunity to bring about a real change in the energy policy of the member states. the report, although it contains a number of measures of interest which could lead to an improvement in the energy system, does not set specific objectives which would oblige the member states to implement a genuine energy conversion strategy. despite all its support for renewable energy, the report continues to consider biofuels as a renewable energy source, without taking into account the very serious food and environmental consequences of their mass cultivation. the european union needs a real binding and clear strategy for member states to exclude biofuels. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − against. while today's vote sends a mixed message on eu renewable energy policy, meps have given strong backing to national support schemes for renewables and called for a binding 2030 eu target. they have sent a message to the commission and eu governments to act in order to capitalise on the economic and employment-creating potential of renewables. however, given the moves by energy commissioner oettinger to undermine renewables and prevent the commission from pushing for an ambitious target, we regret the failure by a majority of meps to explicitly vote for a nominal target of 40-45 % by 2030. this is an unfortunate dilution of the political signal that parliament is sending on renewables.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it contains positive elements on the need to preserve and develop national systems of support for renewable energy, as well as mentioning the environmental, economic and diversification or decentralisation of energy production benefits of this industry. i regret, however, that the binding targets for the post-2020 timeframe have been rejected.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains important aspects for the judicial protection of gender equality in the balkan candidate countries for accession to the european union, it only considers legal aspects and not economic aspects, which are at the root of the problem. the report obliges the candidate countries to develop an institutional system to defend women's rights, but does not consider the impact of the economic opening of the common market on equality in these countries. economic equality is a key element of an effective gender policy and the policy of privatisation and liberalisation that comes with membership of the union has a major negative impact on economic inequality. that is why i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. − in favour. in this report, the choice has been made to specifically address implementation mechanisms in accession countries instead of listing the problems concerning women’s rights and gender equality in general. the goal is to make concrete calls on countries to adapt their laws, policies, budgets and/or institutional frameworks, so that it is clear what is wanted from them to implement gender equality. therefore, issues like the shortcomings in health care systems for women and the lack of education aimed at eliminating gender stereotypes have been left outside of the scope of this draft report, as they are not addressed by specific implementation mechanisms established by authorities. violence against women is included for some countries, since in that area the governments may be called upon to provide a hotline, shelters, police protection and proper judicial handling of cases.
in writing. - as regards §5 (nominal vote 1): for women's participation in working life to be effective, it is not the 'disputed' quotas that are important but sustained and effective support for conciliation measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it can be a tool for promoting effective respect for freedom of expression and freedom of the press in the member states. this report contains a number of points of fundamental importance for the exercise of press freedom, from the obligation of pluralism to the prohibition of censorship. this report will also provide a new means of defending the profession of journalist in the european union. in spain we can see how these fundamental freedoms are being violated every day, with journalists being assaulted and detained by the police, journalists being fired for ideological reasons, etc. the spanish government will find in this report many difficulties in continuing to exert political pressure on the media sector. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - freedom of the press is one of the pillars of european democracy and contributes significantly to the configuration of the fourth estate. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the european institutions to protect the freedom of information of our citizens. the report proposes the establishment of a common regulatory framework for the media in the european union, stressing the importance of media pluralism and safeguarding their editorial independence. in addition, it is particularly important that member states protect cultural and language communities by allowing and encouraging access to media in these languages, as the report concludes.
in writing. − in favour. this ini, entitled ‘eu charter: standard settings for media freedom across the eu’, was decided in libe after the ep resolution on the media situation in hungary, where general outcry dictated the issue be addressed. libe organised a relevant hearing before adopting the report in committee. as problems with media freedom and pluralism exist in several member states, our group’s amendments included ‘naming and shaming’ countries on the basis of osce reporting and were consistent with our position of speaking out on specific issues in specific countries. the country-specific mentions did not pass in committee. however, the libe report underlines the importance and urgency of annually monitoring media freedom and pluralism in all member states and reporting on a yearly basis on the matter, in liaison with all stakeholders, both institutional and other. the ep believes that the commission, the fundamental rights agency and/or the eui centre for media pluralism and media freedom must carry out this task and publish an annual report with the results of the monitoring, which should be presented to parliament and the council and proposals made for any actions arising from conclusions in the report.
in writing. − the independence of journalists is crucial to ensuring free and ethical journalism. for this reason, i voted in favour of protecting journalists from both the internal pressures of the publishers and the external pressures of political and economic lobbyists. we must prevent other agents from being able to influence the content of the news. it is necessary to establish an annual monitoring system at european level on changes in national rules governing the media in order to avoid situations where journalistic independence may be endangered, such as that resulting from the hungarian media law of 2011. in this report we also denounce the effects of the crisis on the working conditions of journalists and call for their immediate improvement. quality and journalistic independence are at stake.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a new attack on the welfare state and the rights of european pensioners. the report introduces the principle of pension sustainability by introducing market economy criteria into the regulation of public pensions. the report also encourages member states to ban compulsory retirement so that workers can 'choose' to continue working. with the very serious unemployment among young people in the southern european countries, raising the retirement age is a real social crime that does not follow any social reasoning. the report also argues for the need to consolidate public budgets and even supports the implementation of individual pension schemes, thereby extending austerity to pension schemes. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − abstention. the adoption of paragraph 58 – ‘regrets that third pillar systems are most often cost-intensive, more risky and less transparent than first-pillar system; calls for stability, reliability and sustainability for the third pillar’ – made us vote as we did.
in writing. − the current economic crisis has highlighted the vulnerability of public and private pension systems. we have voted today to adopt new measures to ensure the continuity of public pensions. it is necessary to ensure a decent standard of living for all citizens throughout their old age. among other proposals, i have advocated the creation of a combined pension system with a universal public pension, supplementary pensions established by collective agreement and individual savings schemes. in order to cope with the decline in the working population, which is causing a decline in the systems that support current pensions, it is important to extend the years of contribution of workers, as well as to strengthen reactivation policies that generate more contributors, training policies that generate higher quality jobs, and control policies to eradicate undeclared work. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report with the aim of finding new solutions to guarantee the quality of life of our citizens.
in writing. - as regards paragraph 6 (nominal votes 6-7): in view of the nature of the document we are voting on, the proposal is too complex, and therefore it is not possible to be clearer in the formulation of calculations and other technical details.
madam president, the establishment of economic and monetary union was not accompanied by a process of financial union, the gap between the overall functioning of financial markets and national control of financial institutions was not closed. supervisory powers and the essential aspects of deposit guarantee and resolution schemes have remained in the hands of the member states. this has weakened european financial stability, distorted the internal market and made it difficult to pass on the common monetary policy to households and businesses. the establishment of a european supervisory system, with european authorities coordinating national supervisors, and the forthcoming adoption of initiatives to establish common rules for bank resolution and progress on the harmonisation of deposit guarantees are going in the right direction, will improve the financial system and the smooth functioning of an internal market based on common rules, a single rule book. however, overcoming the crisis and perfecting economic and monetary union itself require going further. the breakdown of the link between private and sovereign debt, the normalisation of credit and the correct transmission of monetary policy in the euro area call for a banking union. the fiscal compact for debt sustainability and public finances should be complemented by a financial union for the flow of credit and the solvency of private entities. the commission's initiative to present two different legislative proposals, conferring powers on the european central bank and aligning its operation with that of the european banking authority, has always been seen as an inseparable package that had to be adopted with parliament's backing. parliament, aware of the priority and urgency of this initiative, has accelerated its processing and has done its best to secure a compromise, first within itself and then with the other institutions in the legislative procedure. as regards the reform of the european banking authority, consistency with the internal market has been ensured, the integration of the new mechanism into the european system of financial supervision has been ensured and, at the same time, the powers of the european banking authority have been increased. it has been agreed to draw up a supervisory manual, to establish stress tests and to establish rules which increase confidence among participating and non-participating countries in the single supervisory mechanism. the final result is reflected in this sitting: the negotiation has been concluded, a compromise has been reached which we can conclude with a final vote once the council confirms that it is in a position to do so. parliament is currently negotiating an interinstitutional agreement with the european central bank to ensure that it is subject to full parliamentary scrutiny and control in its new supervisory responsibilities. we will not accept a democratic deficit of transparency, accountability and parliamentary control in the single supervisory mechanism. when full judicial powers are assumed, full democratic responsibility must also be assumed.
mr president, we urgently need to implement the banking union, or at least its first pillar. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, mrs thyssen and mr giegold, on the great work they have done and also to thank the work done both by commissioner barnier and by the irish presidency, represented here by their minister creighton. we have set high expectations about the importance of banking union and it is therefore important to live up to those expectations and give massive support tomorrow to the amendments to the reports by mrs thyssen and mr giegold. this support is essential to ensure that the first pillar of the banking union, the single supervisor, is ready as soon as possible. the minister was talking about sending a message to the markets. i couldn't agree with her more. but it is also important to send a message to the citizens, and to see that their political representatives are looking for solutions to the crisis and looking for solutions to future crises. it is important to have the single supervisor ready to begin to defragment the financial markets and to ensure that credit reaches our small and mediumsized enterprises, and also to ensure that smes are financed on the basis of their economic situation and not on the basis of their geographical location. but it's also important to allow for the direct recapitalization of our banking system, and to get to break the vicious circle between sovereign debt and bank debt. in short, to show the citizens that we are working to solve their problems. and finally, i would like to say to mr barnier that we are looking forward to your new proposals on banking union.
mr president, mr commissioner, the experience of recent years has shown that banking union is a necessity and not an option, because national supervisors have proved to be insufficient, ineffective and, in some cases, blatantly negligent in assuming their supervisory functions. we need a single supervisory mechanism within the european central bank. in the electoral programme we adopted for the last european elections we already advocated the creation of this european monitoring service and the progressive communityization of fiscal and social policy, another subject on which we have made progress this morning in order to deepen the single market and to respect the principle of solidarity. we also believe that the european banking authority needs to be further strengthened to avoid, as the report says, a split between euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries in the rules applicable to the financial sector. it must therefore have the material and human resources to meet the difficulties and complexity of the task and must have real autonomy. we hope that no member state will ever again go from boasting of the strongest financial system in europe to presenting a map of craters in which, as far as we know, greedy scoundrels reigned supreme. the commission has therefore our full support in taking the appropriate measures and putting this mechanism into operation as soon as possible.
ms papadopoulou, you had 30 second to answer and it took you two minutes to answer. i hope mr lambsdorff is satisfied with the answer, because it was long!
mr president, in a month's time, at the diplomatic conference of the world intellectual property organization in marrakech, we will have a historic opportunity to redress a great injustice: the lack of access to culture for people with some visual impairment. according to the european union of the blind, which includes the spanish once, the european union's very restrictive and complex negotiating proposals have made it difficult to reach a comprehensive agreement on the treaty. according to the representatives of the european blind, the european positions have been and are serious political barriers to reaching an effective and agile final agreement in favour of blind people. i hope that the commission and the council will reconsider their much-criticised negotiating behaviour in the run-up to the forthcoming diplomatic conference.
mr president, let us say it loud and clear: the current copyright laws are responsible for the fact that millions of people with visual impairments and other reading difficulties are hungry for books. only 5% of published books are accessible in the formats appropriate for these people. this is in rich countries, because in poor countries it's less than 1%. the wipo treaty could remove these barriers posed by copyright laws. this is not a treaty, let us remember, to increase copyright protection for those who already have many other legal ways to defend their rights. however, the commission and the council insist on an inexistent and unfair balance between the visually impaired and the reading disabled on the one hand and the copyright holders on the other. based on this misperception, they have drawn up a long list in favour of industry which will, de facto, render the treaty unworkable and inoperative, as well as very expensive for millions of people, especially in poor countries. some publishing groups have also been lobbying the european parliament against the treaty for some time, betraying its commitment to blind people's organisations. the european commission also ignores the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, arguing that voluntary measures are more effective than mandatory ones. i therefore join the organizations calling on the commission and the council to stop obstructing the drafting of an effective treaty and to stop seeking an impossible and unfair balance between industry and one of the most marginalized groups in the world. in particular, we call for the withdrawal of recitals d and e on commercial availability for the implementation of the treaty, for the international distribution of personalised books to be allowed, for the use of technological measures to block the treaty to be prohibited and for the deletion of recital j on voluntary measures.
the author. - mr president, let us remember that the stockholm programme was adopted in december 2009 and it is now - through the legislature, when we have already passed the equator of this mandate - to assess the degree of compliance. we have put forward an oral question with which we intend to answer two fundamental questions. first, what have been the results of the programme to date? and secondly, what are the main elements that could inspire the programme that succeeds the stockholm five year programme 2009-2014? it is about ensuring an area of freedom, justice and security - that is true - but it is also about assessing what the consequences have been so far. we have seen progress in the area of the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons; we have seen a protracted but still unfinished negotiation - far from being completed - for the ratification of the european convention on human rights, which affects citizenship and fundamental rights; we have seen the copenhagen dilemma, the requirements of democracy, respect for the rule of law and the separation of powers in accession to the union, being raised in the most graphic manner, but, starting with accession to the union, a relaxation of controls with regard to the guarantee of democratic pluralism, respect for fundamental rights, transparency in access to documents. we are currently debating an ambitious data protection package with two parts - a regulation and a directive - which is also far from being finalized. we have seen challenges to the free movement of persons, including setbacks by some union governments, who are trying to rebuild the borders between member states, where citizens regarded free movement as one of the greatest achievements of the area of freedom, justice and security, including the construction of europe throughout its history. we also see how the advances in security - better protecting european citizens - pose unresolved challenges and we have seen how a crisis has emerged with great force, with great virulence, not only financial and economic but also political, of legitimacy and of leadership in the european union, with a crescendo of populisms that pose crude challenges to the values and founding principles of the european union. the question therefore is, with regard to the future of the stockholm programme, what can we do to inspire a five-year programme to succeed the stockholm programme, in the same way as there was a hague programme and before that a tampere programme? what programme will there be after stockholm to ensure that the european parliament plays a decisive role, as the treaty of lisbon requires? three years after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and three years after the adoption of the stockholm programme, it is therefore essential to provide a response that provides greater security for the fundamental rights of citizens. we see how - even today - the european union agency for fundamental rights excludes the evaluation of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. that is the subject of this debate. we want to know the commission's opinion so that we can answer the three questions put in the oral question. the credibility of the european project is at stake, the confidence of the electors and citizens in this european project, and we believe that we are close to the last opportunity to give them an answer on the subject of citizenship rights, which is the reason for europe. if we don't do it now, it may be too late when we try it in the next legislature.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am very grateful to parliament for the opportunity to assess the implementation of the stockholm programme. your question is very wide in scope and, given the short amount of time available, i will only be able to give a limited response at this stage. nevertheless i hope that it will become clear that we have made, and continue to make, significant progress in this whole area. the jha council last december carried out a mid-term review of the stockholm programme. ministers’ discussions were based on an overview of progress drawn up by the cyprus presidency. this overview consisted of an assessment of progress in all areas covered by the stockholm programme – asylum and migration, civil and criminal justice, internal security, civil protection and external relations in the jha field. the council debate served as a response to the european council’s request, when it adopted the stockholm programme, for a mid-term review. the cyprus presidency subsequently informed the president of the european council in writing of the outcome of the council debate. it was noted in particular, and i quote, that ‘the debate in the council showed, in general, satisfaction with the progress made to date as well as confirmation of the need to take forward work on those elements of the stockholm programme which remain outstanding in order to continue to secure for our citizens an area of freedom, security and justice. the usefulness of a programme such as the stockholm programme was also underlined by a number of delegations as a guideline for defining legislative and operational priorities.’ the council debate also enabled ministers to reiterate their commitment to maintaining the right balance between security concerns and the protection of individual rights. i cannot provide an exhaustive list of the substantial number of measures which have been agreed since 2010, but i would like to highlight a few in particular. in the area of asylum and immigration, a comprehensive set of measures relating to the common european asylum system is being finalised and the european asylum support office has become operational. a joint eu resettlement programme was agreed and regional protection programmes further developed, and a directive on a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in member states was adopted. in terms of specific operational measures, the visa information system (or vis) was launched, the it agency became operational and sis ii went live last april. in the area of justice, the directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime was adopted and a regulation on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters was agreed. as far as internal security measures are concerned, a number of important directives were adopted. these include measures to ensure better protection against large-scale cyber attacks, strengthened measures for preventing on-line child sexual abuse in order to facilitate the prosecution of perpetrators and improve the protection of child victims, and a directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. in general, the council takes the view that a particular focus should now be given to implementing legislation which has already been adopted and to ensuring that measures already agreed are made fully operational. as far as the institutional arrangements are concerned, the council considers that the application of the ordinary legislative procedure functions well, strengthening the commitment of both our institutions to cooperate in ensuring that the area of freedom, security and justice is completed and made fully operational. the instruments established under the lisbon treaty have already proved to be useful. a standing committee in the council ensures effective operational cooperation on internal security and other measures such as the solidarity clause, which will doubtless help to further strengthen cooperation in future. the establishment of the european external action service continues to contribute to ensuring good coordination where there is an external dimension to jha policies. overall i think we can look with some degree of satisfaction at what has been achieved under the stockholm programme. that, of course, should never lead us into complacency. this does not apply just to the council but also to parliament. i think both our institutions need to demonstrate in practice our commitment to making rapid progress on implementing the remainder of the stockholm programme and in fulfilling our shared objective of creating a more secure, open and fairer europe.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the speakers for this question, which asks the commission not only to list the results achieved during the stockholm programme but also to list the obstacles which the commission considers have been encountered in implementing this programme. i also note what mr berlinguer said. all right, there's this list, this list, but how much publicity has there been, how well has this program been implemented? the country i know, malta, joined the schengen system in 2007, and sometimes i think that today it is actually possible to drive a car from malta to stockholm without being stopped once. this is a great achievement of the european union, namely that these borders which in the past have created so many wars, such as the border between poland and germany or the border between gorizia and nova gorica, are today only lines on a map. this is not an abstract thing, this is a concrete thing. this is just one example, and it does not mean that there are no obstacles. one of the obstacles is the one mentioned by mr aguilar, namely the growth of nationalist populism in the worst sense of the term, that is to say, the introduction of obstacles to the free movement of persons under one pretext or another. this has been promoted with the idea that there is an attempt to demolish what has been built up with so much patience, with so many sacrifices, because for me the schengen system represents a milestone. we must be proud of this and must therefore always be vigilant and not introduce obstacles to the implementation of what i consider to be a legacy for future generations. i would like to thank the three members who asked this oral question on the implementation of the stockholm programme. three years ago the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights put european citizens at the centre of european integration. putting the citizen at the heart of the european union was a quantum leap, and the commission that took up its office in february 2010 put the necessary steps in motion to take such a leap. vice-president reding, who incidentally sends her sincere apologies because for personal reasons she could not be present here with us today, and my fellow commissioner malmström, had the opportunity to exchange views with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) on the mid-term review of the stockholm programme last december. let me highlight some of the achievements. in the field of justice we have had major advances in the area of civil justice, taking steps to stimulate the single market. we call this the so-called justice for growth, which in simple terms means taking concrete action which helps to put europe back on the right track. for example, we have removed the costly and bureaucratic exequatur procedure in the brussels i regulation. judgments for one member state will automatically be recognised in another member state. we are also working on the insolvency package, which updates the current rules on cross-border insolvencies. we want viable business to get a second chance, also with a view to saving jobs. the data protection reform package which is on the table will reduce administrative burdens for businesses and ensure a high level of personal data protection, but we have also made concerted progress in the criminal justice field. we are particularly proud of the advances made in the field of victims' rights: the victims' rights directive, combined with the european protection order (criminal directive) and the european protection order (civil regulation), have improved the standing of victims of crime throughout the criminal procedure. we have also made considerable progress on strengthening procedural rights. the adoption and publication of the directive on the right to interpretation and translation, as well as the directive on the right to information, increases the support for persons in criminal proceedings across the union. i must say that this is a concrete achievement which is felt by the ordinary citizen, and i would like to thank parliament and the council for their joint efforts to conclude, very soon, the negotiations on the directive on access to a lawyer. fellow parliamentarians know that this is regulated in different ways, not only legally but also in its implementation in the member states. in the field of criminal law the commission has proposed minimum rules and minimum sanctions to protect the financial interests of the european union and the euro against counterfeiting. the aim is simple: to use criminal law to strengthen protection for common eu goods. we call on parliament to work on these proposals as a matter of priority. citizens' rights are an essential element of the european integration process. in this context, on 8 may 2013 we presented the eu citizenship report, the annual report on the eu charter of fundamental rights and the annual report on equality between women and men. the approach is to focus on the effective implementation of fundamental rights. in fact, the commission has even gone beyond the stockholm programme, which by its nature provides strategic guidelines. but that shouldn't be seen as a rigid corset. for example, in march 2013 the commission presented the eu justice scoreboard, which seeks to assist member states in the development of more effective justice. it provides objective, reliable and comparable data on the efficiency, quality and independence of the justice systems in all member states. some call it name and shame; i prefer to call it name and praise. it is an evolving tool and will gradually expand the indicators and the areas covered. in the field of home affairs, we can be proud of what we are close to achieving on asylum. at the next plenary, parliament is likely to vote on a common area of protection from oppression, violence, torture and fear of persecution, with common rules and common outcomes, where member states cooperate in a display of european solidarity. the visa information system and the second generation schengen information system have gone live and are now tools enabling the correct functioning of the border-free movement that europeans enjoy and, i hope, will continue to enjoy throughout most of our continent. we have a framework in place for local schengen cooperation and have put forward proposals for better governance of the schengen area and improved surveillance of our borders. we may now be close to an agreement on both of these. the frontex agency has a new mandate for more effective operation, with stronger guarantees on fundamental rights, and we have proposed a new mandate for europol, bringing it into the post-lisbon treaty era. we have adopted an internal security strategy and are regularly reporting on its implementation. we have concluded agreements on terrorist finance tracking with the united states and on pnr with the united states and australia. we have new directives in place against child sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings. we have brought eu law into line with the un firearms protocol. we have put forward legislation on explosive precursors and a new eu policy and reporting mechanism against corruption. in line with our global approach on migration and mobility we have launched wide-ranging discussions with many of our neighbouring countries and have made good progress on visa facilitation, liberalisation and readmission. we have put forward proposals on third-country students and researchers as well as intra-corporate transferees and seasonal workers, while also developing a new agenda for integration of third-country nationals and furthering the debate on family reunification. there are still important tasks to achieve. we are, for example, working intensively on a proposal for a european public prosecutors office, which would be responsible for combating crimes affecting the financial interests of the union, and other issues such as anti-corruption policies or security in cyber space remain high on the agenda. justice and home affairs cover sensitive policy areas that were traditionally seen as solely a matter of national competence. the eu decision-making process is still adapting to the new legislative and institutional framework established by the lisbon treaty. we have made a lot of legislative proposals, but i would like to stress once again the importance of the effective enforcement of the legislation that we have put in place. one particular need which was acutely revealed in the last few months concerns the rule of law, and i will conclude with this comment. as president barroso said in his state of the union speech last september, we need a better-developed set of instruments - not just the two extremes between the soft power of political persuasion and the nuclear option of article 7 of the treaty. we need something in between. the commission hopes it can count on the support of parliament for creating a new mechanism enabling the european union to take effective action.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the legitimacy of political systems, or political projects, is based on the results they provide to improve the daily lives and expectations of citizens, and also on the values to which those citizens subscribe, values which mark the identity of that political union. we know that the european union is not delivering good results for its citizens in terms of growth, in terms of employment, in terms of public policies. what about the values? because the european union is a political project based on freedom, based on solidarity, based on respect for the rights of those citizens, and the fundamental value is the sense of belonging, the knowledge of being part of a common territorial and political project. it will soon be three years since the adoption of the stockholm programme of action, and much progress has been made. both the commissioner and the council minister have referred to this. but i would like to point out three areas where there are problems: the first of these, free movement. the commissioner pointed out that from malta to stockholm, one could cross the continent without encountering any barrier to freedom of movement. but that is possible because very recently he has not crossed europe to go from germany to denmark, because there he would have had a brake, or because he is not an eastern european citizen going to the united kingdom, because there too he would have had a brake on freedom of movement. we know that there is a conflict between this parliament and the council on schengen, and we know that there are bad omens about the freedom established in schengen. the second, transparency. we have the issue of access to documents pending, and an oral question has been tabled in this very house on the blockage that is taking place. thirdly, the protection of citizens' rights. the commission has concluded negotiations with the council of europe on the convention. i would encourage the council, once we have the opinion of the court of justice of the european union, to conclude this process and better protect the rights of citizens.
mr president, in the absence of a review of the stockholm programme and its action plan, i would like to highlight only three issues, objectives not yet achieved, which affect the fight against terrorism and serious crime. firstly, i refer to the failure to implement article 75 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union as regards the freezing of assets and the use of internal terrorist lists in the european union, which has not been revised since 2009. secondly, the absence of legislative initiatives on the european system for monitoring the financing of terrorism. thirdly, and this is a very regrettable and recent development, the interruption of the first reading of the european pnr. i am pessimistic about the european public prosecutor's office, but the most serious thing, mr president, is the lack of interinstitutional agreement. what do i mean? i am referring to the lack of agreement on the use of delegated or implementing acts in the legislative procedure. there is no interinstitutional agreement, and this short-circuits and blocks the legislative task. i refer specifically to two dossiers in my possession: one on the revision of regulation no 539 and the other on the fight against the counterfeiting of the euro. but you only have to look at the schengen evaluation process to understand how important what i am saying is. either there is an urgent interinstitutional agreement or we will not be able to carry out effectively the legislative task entrusted to us - with value in terms of codecision - by the treaty of lisbon.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the rights of women is not restricted to the protection of the rights of men and women in the context of the fight against unemployment. the journey has been a pleasant and rewarding one, but there have also been significant obstacles along the way, which we have managed to overcome until we have reached our goal, which is to allow any victim of crime to obtain the recognition and the maximum possible protection within the territory of the european union. this regulation is part of the legislative package strengthening the rights of victims in the european union and complements the european protection order directive which ensures mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters. the combined application of the two instruments, criminal and civil, will allow persons who have obtained a protection order to move freely and safely throughout the european territory, including the united kingdom and ireland, which have also expressly requested to be included in this regulation. pursuant to article 3 of the treaty on european union, which will strengthen and develop the area of freedom, security and justice of the union, in accordance with the principle of mutual recognition, protection measures in civil matters adopted by a member state are to be recognised as civil measures in another member state. we've tried to simplify these protection orders as much as possible. a standardised, multilingual certificate has been drawn up to this end, containing most of the civil measures that could be agreed to protect the lives and physical and moral integrity of victims. if the protected person is not physically present in the home member state, he/she has the possibility to request the certificate online, by fax or by any other technical method. it is also intended that the protected person should not have to bear the financial costs associated with the recognition of the protection measure in another member state. this is an administrative procedure which is easily obtainable by victims and also protects them when travelling and being transferred to other countries. the recognition of the measure and the application for the certificate do not require the presence of a legal representative or a lawyer, which - as you will understand - greatly reduces costs and thus makes life easier for our citizens. we have found it easier and more appropriate to create a european union-wide database of protection measures and certificates issued. this will ensure that national authorities have secure and rapid access to the required information and secure and rapid cross-border protection. in this way, a victim of a terrorist offence who has obtained a restraining order from the offender, for example in a civil action, and who moves to travel or live in sweden, can apply through this certificate for the enforcement of the agreed civil action before the swedish authorities, in accordance with this regulation. for example, a portuguese victim of gender-based violence who has been declared as such by a portuguese court and who has also been granted a series of protection measures, such as a restraining order against the offender or a ban on communication between the offender and the victim, may move to a territory, say, romanian, where the authorities of this country will immediately enforce the measures agreed by the portuguese judicial body, through the multilingual standardised certificate that the victim can request from romania by any electronic means and by registering the victim in the european register of victims without any need for legal assistance. the rapporteur and i want to see these measures of recognition spread as widely as possible throughout the union, and we call on all member states to work together to achieve this. we also propose that these protection measures be made available on the e-justice portal, which is installed in all eu countries. i do not want to conclude, with the commissioner present, without thanking, of course, the cooperation, very good cooperation, which we have obtained both from the directorate-general for justice of the european commission and from the cypriot and irish presidencies. i would also like to make a special mention of my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality and, above all, antonia parmanova, an efficient and hardworking member of parliament from bulgaria, who, together with this spanish member, i believe we have been able to make life a little easier for our citizens. i hope that at this moment this kind of recognition, these kinds of measures and our attempt to bring the citizens much closer to the european union will be recognised by them.
member of the commission. − madam president, this is an important day for european citizens. on behalf of vice-president reding, i welcome the agreement on this regulation at first reading. it represents a landmark for the effective implementation of victims’ rights. wherever they are in the european union and no matter where they come from or where they live, we have to make sure that all victims are treated properly and without discrimination. this is what this european protection order will do, by setting up a fast, efficient, mutual-recognition mechanism for protection measures. this agreement would not have been possible without excellent cooperation with the irish presidency and the rapporteurs, mr lópez-istúriz white and ms parvanova. the european protection order regulation will, together with the criminal law directive, allow victims to cross borders and retain the benefits of the protection measures issued in their home country. thanks to parliament, we have found a good solution to avoid excessive translation costs for the victims. we now have agreement on all legislative elements of the victims’ package proposed exactly two years ago, in may 2011. this comprehensive reform applies to victims of all types of crime. it provides a range of measures to ensure that victims receive proper treatment from the moment they report a crime to the final outcome of criminal proceedings. we are convinced that the european protection order will have a very positive impact, especially on women suffering from violent and sexual crime. the special needs of such victims have been recognised and should be addressed when implementing these measures into national law. we must now turn our attention to the member states. now that the legislation has been agreed and will soon be published in the official journal, we must ensure that it is properly implemented and applied. all the victims’ rights laws now adopted must be operational and fully available to victims by the transposition deadline in 2015. the commission will assist the member states by issuing guidance documents, promoting training and bringing together the experts to put these laws into action. the objective is clear and simple. we will not allow these laws to become a dead letter. we will act to ensure that the laws are properly implemented by the national authorities and courts. we will monitor transposition and compliance by the member states in relation to their obligations to stand up and respond to their responsibility to act and give meaning and effect to the law.
opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - madam president, this is the supplementary regulation to the european protection order in countries where there is a civil phase of the procedure, because this regulation is designed for that purpose, for those countries where there is a civil phase of the procedure. and it is good because, moreover, it is a regulation which is automatically applied and which will be rapidly applied. but we must regret that we have not made any progress at the moment in defining the crime of violence against women as a continuing aggression in order to be able to include this crime in the member states. this is not yet a crime in all member states. and we must make progress, above all, in preventing the crime of violence against women. that is why its definition is essential. we have not yet made any convincing proposals on the prevention of this crime. and we cannot, in any way, allow the crisis to drag us down and undermine all that prevention is. it is not possible that, because the means of justice are being reduced, we should turn crimes into misdemeanours and deprive women of free legal aid, when it is the vulnerable women who are suffering the most from the effects of the crisis and who have nowhere to fall dead. how can they be deprived of these possibilities! keep in mind that this may be happening in some countries. unfortunately, in my country, with the justice reform right now, it may be happening. so we must be very careful to ensure that this prevention is effective and that we make progress in defining this crime in the member states and also in including these statistics, not only of violence against women but also of trafficking in women, in eurostat, so that we can really know the dimension of this problem and make progress in prevention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, allow me first of all to congratulate our colleagues lópez-istúriz white and parvanova for having led that important debate. it has been said, and i fully agree, that this is not a minor issue, especially for those women who suffer gender-based violence. according to the council of europe around 20% to 25% of european women experience physical acts of violence at least once during their adult life. 12 to 15% find themselves in a relationship of domestic abuse and more than 10% suffer sexual violence. according to eurostat, the rate of unreported crime is 60%, and according to the european women’s lobby, violence against women affects approximately 45% of all women across europe; an estimated one-fifth of women in the european union suffer from violence. seven women die every day from violence of this kind. the annual cost of this kind of violence in the european union could be as high as eur 16 billion. this is not, i repeat, a minor issue. this regulation is thus intended to apply to protection measures ordered with a view to protecting the person when there are serious grounds for considering that that person’s life, physical or psychological integrity, personal liberty, security or sexual integrity is at risk: for example, in order to prevent any form of gender-based violence or violence in close relationships such as physical violence, harassment, sexual aggression, stalking, intimidation or other forms of indirect coercion. the aim of the regulation is to establish an efficient recognition mechanism to ensure that all protection measures taken in civil matters in the member state concerned can circulate freely throughout the european union. this is important because it affects all kinds of victims, and it also includes any obligations or prohibitions imposed on the person causing the risk, such as a prohibition or regulation on entering the place where the protected person resides, works or visits, or stays regularly. that is why i would like to offer my congratulations on the job done, and i fully expect that the member states will recognise that this important measure should be implemented as soon as possible.
madam president, the european agenda has been full of historic events lately. the last summits and today's summit also bear that name, and the commissioner has said so. i would also like to claim that qualification for the regulation we are debating today. european citizens will live in greater security and with more rights from today onwards, because this regulation completes the guarantees offered by the european protection order on which we have worked so hard. the combination of both is essential if all victims of crime, especially serious and frequent crime, threatened by phenomena ranging from organised and/or terrorist crime to gender-based violence, are to feel protected throughout the union. this is something to celebrate because it preaches values. the first is the supremacy of life and the integrity of persons over all other considerations; the second is the value of the agreement as a tool for serving citizens and building a fairer society; the third is the value of the 'europe' brand as a reference in the field of civil rights and guarantees. i would like to end by reclaiming the role of politics. the rapporteurs have done their job as two competent watchmakers. they have faced complex legal problems, very diverse case law, a huge diversity of legal cultures and a long, rough and difficult process. they still managed to fit all the pieces together. today we owe them the recognition they deserve for restoring our faith in the consistency of the value of politics and the solidity of the values which underpin the european project. so i thank mr lópez-istúriz and mrs parvanova for their work. we now only hope that all states will take the appropriate measures and decisions to ensure and make effective the protection of all victims. and, commissioner, as you have said today, pursue and control the states to implement this directive as soon as possible.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr lópez-istúriz, mrs parvanova, mrs romero and mrs jiménez very sincerely, acknowledging their great work on the legislative package and their sensitivity towards the most vulnerable, the most attacked: women, children, the abducted and the harassed. the programme we are discussing today in this sitting is linked to yesterday's programme, the stockholm programme, which includes the possibility of extending mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions, according to the legal system in question. we must work to strengthen the european area of freedom, security and justice by promoting judicial cooperation between states, whether in criminal, civil or administrative matters. it is essential to adopt measures to facilitate the mutual recognition of decisions taken by the competent judicial bodies in the defence of victims, ensuring their equal treatment, irrespective of the state in which the protection order was issued. only by strengthening our legal systems will we foster and consolidate mutual trust in the judicial systems of the member states, facilitating equal treatment of victims, the full defence of their rights and fair and necessary redress. measures such as comprehensive protection for victims, simplification of administrative procedures and facilitating the linguistic processing of documents are all steps in the right direction towards the adaptation of this regulation, an objective which i consider to be fundamental and which the rapporteurs are pursuing, namely the adaptation of this regulation - code - to the criminal protection order.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank, on behalf of the victims, mr lópez-istúriz and mrs parvanova for their great work on this regulation on the recognition of civil protection measures. we are taking another step in protecting citizens, as this agreement complements the european order for the protection of victims adopted in december 2011. with our positive vote we are legislating to make life easier for the victims, who will now feel equally safe in any country of the union. we cannot prevent criminals from crossing borders, but we have a duty and a right to protect victims and their families, and this instrument will do that. today, all of us who have worked to protect victims can take pride in being able to give them the safety and trust they deserve. i want to give this victim protection order to all people who suffer violence - especially children and women who suffer domestic violence - and give them security with economic and human means, because behind these laws there must be security and means, because otherwise, women do not report and then everything is left on wet paper.
the rapporteur, mrs reding, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on women's rights. it is also thanks to her that we are sitting here today celebrating the conclusion of this report - i ask mr füle to pass it on to you - and thanks to the commission in general, as i said before, for its great help. i would also like to say that we will be - as my colleague izaskun bilbao has also said - very attentive to how this is transposed in the various member states and we will help the european commission in whatever way we can to make this happen. i also share the concern of my colleague, carmen romero, that there should be a definition of gender-based violence in the european union, and we will cooperate in what we can also do in my juri committee. i would also like to say to my british colleagues that, in the end, we respect and work with the lawyers who work in the juri committee on the question of british common law. but beyond these little - i think legal - discussions, i think we have done a favour today to many british tourists who come to my country, for example, and who will feel the same protection as they do in the uk on this issue. they will also have it from the spanish authorities, which i think we have made some progress with, and they will notice it far beyond all these little issues. i think that is one more point in favour of this european union. and to conclude, simply to say that, in truth, as a father of two daughters, i am very proud of the work that antonia parvanova and my colleagues in the women's committee are doing to make their future in this european union more secure. i think it's excellent work from all of them. the juri committee told me at the beginning that it would be difficult, perhaps, to work together. i think it has been shown that we are far above that and that we are working for this future of security for women, also in the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the future legislative proposals on emu by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000060/2013 b7-0204/2013) (2013/2609 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, when we built the euro area we knew that it suffered from certain imperfections due to the fact that we shared a single monetary policy and not a fiscal union and, even less, a political union. this triggered a lack of coordination already highlighted in the kok report of 2005. the 2008 crisis has exacerbated these imperfections, but, let us be positive, it has also given us the opportunity not only to overcome them, but to improve the whole architecture of the euro and of the european union. with the design of the euro area we are skipping the traditional philosophy of the european union since its inception: to move forward step by step, to move forward in stages, to deliver what is agreed. now that we know what our shortcomings have been, we are returning to this philosophy, whereby one of the great challenges is to create a true economic union. the banking union is one of the priority areas in which we must make progress within the economic union, as we saw yesterday in this house, but it is only one step, which shows the solidarity that is so important. solidarity is not yet automatically established, but it is constantly being called for in european law. my colleague and friend mr gauzès put it very well when he called for the social dimension. the proof of this is the decisive and agile action needed in the times of distrust we are living in. the ex ante coordination of economic reforms and the convergence and competitiveness instrument are key to automating the solidarity needed by countries that share the same currency but which at times still seem to lack a common horizon. in this respect, it is important that ex ante coordination applies to the euro member states, but without diminishing their responsibility to pursue reform processes. the convergence and competitiveness instrument should be combined with a financial incentive mechanism with budgetary capacity to avoid the previous failures. the two instruments are a further but necessary step towards the much needed economic union and, in short, political union. that's why this resolution is so important.
mr president, the performance of the european economy since the establishment of economic and monetary union has been unsatisfactory. member states have not delivered on the commitments of the stability and growth pact, the union has not achieved the objectives of the lisbon strategy, and europe is the area of the world that is responding the worst to the challenges of the crisis. the policies of indiscriminate adjustment have led to job losses, economic contraction, higher total indebtedness and have opened cracks within the union. the economic and monetary union must evolve by integrating responsibility and solidarity, discipline and encouragement. the proposals to move towards ex ante economic coordination are in the right direction, but they must be part of a common economic policy framework. it is also necessary to make way for a policy of investment incentives in this common economic policy framework, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, to improve competitiveness. but to improve competitiveness in a multi-factor way, european cooperation must be based on a social pact, on fiscal resources beyond those provided for in the multiannual financial perspective and under democratic control. and, in addition, to restore growth, credit initiatives will be needed to improve the sustainability of public finances and to revive growth.
madam president, commissioner, with all due respect, i would like to say that your presence and your words cause us great concern. the commission's presence here is because we were hoping that, in the midst of europe's greatest social crisis, at least the president of the council, or the commissioner responsible for the sector, would be here, and not the commissioner for the economy, because we are in a crisis precisely because of the imbalance that exists due to the lack of a social dimension. and your words, because we were waiting for proposals, measures, the road map, the precise timetable to which you are bound before the june council, and we have again seen the rhetoric, a jungle of words and a desert of proposals and ideas. and all this is because i believe that these words and ideas exist and that commissioner andor has indeed made them public, but they have not passed through the college of commissioners, because you and the president of the council have not yet come to understand that we are in a critical situation. and we are in a dramatic situation where the absence of this social pillar goes against the treaties, goes against economic logic, which is showing us that the loss of activity, the loss of demand, added up in the rest of europe, is what is producing the enormous drama of unemployment and the enormous lack of fiscal resources which also explain the fiscal crisis of the states. it is destroying the social capital of our nations. you tell us that "more migrants". no, commissioner, we are bleeding our best people, our young people who have been educated in our countries and who are now forced to seek emigration. no, commissioner, we are in a situation which you do not fully understand, which is multiplying the problems and is beginning to create a very serious problem, not only social but also political. we need indicators of the situation we are in; we need a social governance policy on the same level as economic governance; we need esco, the employment committee, the social protection committee to be as important as ecofin; we need social dialogue, because without social dialogue there can be no effective policy, there can be no healthy society and there can be no healthy community; we need multipliers set up in another way; we need automatic stabilisers and we need a system for the future in which social matters respect the treaty and are as important as economic matters and where people count as much as the economy and finance.
madam president, commissioner, you have started today's debate by saying that the commission is aware that it must do more in the social field. the question is, who's stopping him? this parliament does not. i think that the commission is not aware of the seriousness of the situation we are in, nor of the necessary ambition that most citizens demand of it to devise a different way out of the crisis. they're not aware of the one that's falling in the street. firstly, you have set out an economic strategy which is radically opposed to what europe needs, which is driving us into further recession, which has increased economic disparities between the member states and social inequalities between citizens. then they slow down all the economic, coordination and social commitments they had with this house, for example the social union, in which they have not even had the political shame to present us with a communication, however disappointing it may have been. commissioner, this parliament is not going to accept any more carrot sticks, entertaining us, imagining a fairer way out of the crisis, while you do whatever you want, without being accountable to anyone. open the debate on social union now, open the debate on social indicators, on european automatic stabilizers, on unemployment insurance, on the minimum wage, on the competitiveness and social cohesion fund, but open it now, stop ignoring the social aspect, because if you do not, i assure you that many of us will not wait for the next european elections to ask you to leave now.
madam president, commissioner, economic and monetary union must strengthen the european social model, which is the hallmark of our union. it is a way of doing, of working, of progressing, which is a reference in the world. europe means development, but with values, and it is a project for the people. so the principle of social cohesion, together with sustainability and knowledge, forms the tripod on which strategy 2020 sits to re-launch us as a global power. economic and monetary union is one more instrument to maintain this position, a tool to counter with guarantees social dumping and the lurking of financial speculation. in the face of the image of europe imposing austerity and cuts, we need to rediscover the europe which has meant for the 27 member states an objective improvement in the living conditions and the list of rights of their citizens. mr commissioner, an economic and monetary union will only succeed if it is built on a human scale, on the basis of solidarity, trust, employment, recognition and respect for all those who aspire to form it, with shared standards and instruments that provide the strength of unity in the face of the global challenge and the opportunities of diversity to share and exploit all available knowledge. let us return to the foundations of our strength and, commissioner, as you have heard today, put in place the most effective tools to ensure that we do not forget the people who are having such a hard time in this situation in europe.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i was asked by president barroso and commissioner andor to take this policy debate. i agreed to change my agenda and reschedule meetings in brussels which were intended for preparing the package of country-specific recommendations for next week, because i place such a strong emphasis and importance on the social and employment agenda of the european union and on the social dimension of the economic and monetary union. let me comment on a few issues that have been raised by several speakers, starting with ms cornelissen, who referred to the scoreboard and how to strengthen the social dimension in economic governance. in my view, there is scope for better catering for the social dimension of the emu in the existing instruments of economic governance. for instance, a scoreboard of employment and social indicators built around existing instruments would help in detecting situations of social distress or social imbalances to which you and many others referred, and would trigger early corrective action through employment and economic policies. this enhanced surveillance would help first to provide greater visibility to the social policy dimension when taking macro-economic decisions at the level of europe and the member states. second, it would also strengthen the monitoring of employment and social policies in order to identify and enable the alleviation of major difficulties in good time. i believe we have much to learn from each other in the member states within the european union. benchmarking of best practice already takes place in the employment and social coordination mechanisms. this could be further developed to support the ex ante coordination of major economic reforms. the social dimension of the emu could also be reflected in the competitiveness and convergence instrument, as long as it involved forms of financial support for such measures as help facilitate the implementation of difficult reforms. for instance, a member state which commits to implementing a difficult pension reform could in principle receive support for a lifelong learning programme to improve the employability of older workers. many of you referred to the role of the social partners. it goes without saying that the social dimension of the emu is also about reinforcing the role of social partners. in the short term, suitable involvement and participation of social partners in policy debates and policy-making processes could already help increase ownership and enhance the effectiveness of policies and their coordination at euro area level. the involvement and consultation of social partners at national level is, of course, essential and should be further developed, and that is the responsibility of the member states. i said in my opening remarks that we need to do whatever it takes to combat the unemployment crisis, especially youth unemployment, and for that we need, in the immediate short term, concrete action and policy initiatives, especially in fighting youth unemployment. here we have the initiative of the youth guarantee scheme, which is based on good experience and good results in, for instance, the nordic countries. it gives the young person a guaranteed chance to get either a job or a place in education or on a training course and thus improves his or her employability and helps him or her when returning to the labour market once the economic situation improves. this is, to my mind, a kind of best practice that can be utilised in europe as a whole, and we need to really focus on the youth guarantee scheme and move it forward. i also want to point out that for the next multiannual financial framework the commission has proposed that at least 25% of cohesion policy funding be allocated to the european social fund (esf) and that the budget of the esf will increase by 10%, which is eur 84 billion. the task of the european social fund is to increase employment opportunities, promote education and lifelong learning, enhance social inclusion and contribute to combating poverty. moreover it has been proposed that at least 20% of total esf resources in each member state be allocated to the objective of promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. arvoisa puhemies, lopuksi pari sanaa suomeksi, koska jäsen jaakonsaari nosti esiin hyvin tärkeän kysymyksen. hän korosti, että meidän ei pitäisi asettaa vastakkain talous- ja rahaliiton taloudellista ja sosiaalista ulottuvuutta. olen samaa mieltä, asia on juuri näin. euroopan yhteiskunnallinen ja taloudellinen malli perustuu siihen, että me kykenemme saamaan taloutemme toimimaan tehokkaasti ja luomaan työpaikkoja ja samaan aikaan me pidämme huolta heikommassa asemassa olevista ja tarjoamme heille yhdenvertaiset mahdollisuudet menestyä yhteiskunnassa ja työelämässä. meidän on nyt työskenneltävä näiden molempien ulottuvuuksien puolesta ja tältä kannalta tämä talous- ja rahaliiton sosiaalinen ulottuvuus on hyvin tärkeä ja keskeinen. komissio tulee pian tekemään tästä konkreettisia ehdotuksia.
madam president, i would remind the house that in april my political group asked that neither the debate nor the vote on the resolution on guantanamo should be taken up at that plenary session, given its proximity to the terrorist attack in boston. mr swoboda proposed that we continue the debate and that the vote be held at this part-session. since that debate has already taken place, madam president, under rule 122 of the rules of procedure, i ask that that commitment be honoured and that the debate not be held again, because it already took place at the april partsession, and that parliament therefore vote tomorrow on the resolution on guantánamo alone.
we support these two reports, madam president, because we share their general principles, particularly in the fight against tax fraud and evasion, in shifting taxation to more growth-friendly areas and in providing fiscal incentives for the selfemployed and small and mediumsized enterprises, especially with a view to encouraging innovation and research and development activities. we also found that they intelligently combine the global and the local in a field where the european level is essential and where proximity is also useful in order to improve control and boost the real economy. we therefore support the need to combine our efforts to combat unfair tax competition and tax havens at global level. but at the same time we welcome the explicit mention of the role that the principles of subsidiarity and multi-level governance should play in the implementation of sound european taxation. we believe that this mention is an express endorsement of institutions such as the basque concert or the navarre convention, which have proved effective in channelling potential towards economic and social growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to promote and strengthen the fight against tax havens from the community level in order to boost public revenue in the member states. it is not the first time that the european parliament has spoken out against the fiscal gap in this respect, but the other european institutions and the member states have made no progress in this area. this type of report is never put into practice because the governments of the member states, the commission and the council prefer to push through austerity policies in order to privatise strategic public sectors, leaving public services and fundamental rights of european citizens in the hands of capital in order to create new investment sectors for companies and banks. i voted in favour of this report, although i know that it will not be implemented because it contains measures against tax evasion which the iu maintains in all its fields.
in writing. − in favour. among other things, this report calls for member states to implement the commission’s two recommendations, for the eu to lead internationally, for tax treaties between member states and developing countries to be based on common standards with a view to avoiding base erosion for those countries, for a halving of the tax gap by 2020, and for tax administrations to be strengthened. the report welcomes the us foreign account tax compliance act (fatca) while calling for the data protection rights of eu citizens to be respected. it also calls for the generalisation, extension and internationalisation of automatic information exchange; the introduction of a mandatory common consolidated corporate tax base; revision in 2013 of two key directives that facilitate corporate tax dodging; cross-sector country-by-country reporting; an obligation to create public registries of the beneficial ownership of companies, trusts and foundations (codifying offshore leaks); substantive requirements for notification and publication of tailored tax rulings; broad tax haven identification criteria, with a corresponding eu blacklist to be published by the end of 2014; the adoption of comprehensive measures against vat fraud, in particular carousel fraud; and assistance to developing countries. however, some provisions are still missing or are weaker than we had wanted: for example, the black list in 2014, and the reference to ‘several’ criteria for the classification of a jurisdiction as a tax haven, where one should have been sufficient.
in writing. - tax havens are the black holes of globalisation. tax fraud and tax evasion cost the european union €1 trillion in lost tax revenue each year. this bleeding causes an unfair distribution of the tax burden and distorts markets and fair competition. it provides cover for the black economy and other illicit activities, affects financial stability and weakens tax systems. its effects are particularly pernicious in these times of crisis by diminishing social protection capacity, holding back growth and sustainable employment and undermining fiscal consolidation efforts. it is important that the european council at its next meeting should promote decisive action in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. my amendments, which are included in the resolution we adopted this morning, call for the automatic exchange of information between administrations, the introduction of european taxes for companies operating across borders and the non-recognition within the eu of companies set up in non-cooperative jurisdictions. i am in favour of companies that evade or have committed tax fraud not being able to participate in public tenders, and i support the whole of the resolution that has been adopted.
in writing. - tax fraud and evasion at eu level amount to €1 trillion each year. in addition to having a negative impact on member states' budgets, it gives a competitive advantage to tax evaders while reducing taxpayers' confidence. although the fight against tax fraud is a matter for the member states, i believe that a coordinated framework at eu level is needed to adapt to globalised markets and the interconnected economy. in this respect, i support all the measures proposed in this report, in particular the reduction of fraud by half by 2020, the promotion of transparency and the exchange of information in tax matters.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although it contains certain points of interest relating to the fight against tax fraud, it introduces neoliberal governance principles in the coordination of the member states' tax policies. the report makes some points on the fight against tax evasion which could be shared, but it then introduces all the concepts of economic governance which are the product of the neoliberal ideology which has led us to the crisis we are suffering today. the report reaffirms the need to clean up public finances without even mentioning the plundering of public funds that the rescue of the financial sector has entailed, ignoring the real cause of the increase in public debt: the rescues of the banks. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the recent debt crisis has raised several new problems in the european union, which require the proper adjustment of tax policies in the short, medium and long term. some of the countries have already made these adjustments, while others are still ahead of them. it should be emphasised that tax policy remains a competence of national sovereignty and that the different tax systems of the member states have therefore to be respected, whilst the barriers of the internal market and the uncertainties and misunderstandings originating from the legal gaps should be suppressed as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is intended to speed up the political procedures so that the government of the czech republic can implement protocol no 30 to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. normally, the acceptance of such a protocol by the czech republic would have to be implemented in the treaties of the european union through the conclusion of a convention, which would imply a significant economic, temporal and political cost for an amendment affecting only one member state. the amendment favours the application of the fundamental rights of the european union in the czech republic and therefore improves the defence of these rights in that member state. this justifies the speeding up of the complex and slow political procedure. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union was drafted by a convention held from 17 december 1999 to 2 october 2000, bringing together representatives of parliament, the member states, national parliaments and the commission. the charter was proclaimed on 7 december 2000 and its text was adapted at strasbourg on 12 december 2007. a second convention was held from 22 february 2002 to 18 july 2003 to draft the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, most of the substance of which was incorporated into the lisbon treaty, which entered into force on 1 december 2009. both conventions were convened to address major issues concerning the constitutional order of the union, including the adoption of a binding text setting out the fundamental rights and principles recognised by the union. in the light of the above, it is not necessary to call a convention in order to examine the proposal that protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and to the united kingdom be extended to the czech republic, as the effect of that proposal, if any, would be limited. thus, the ep approves the european council’s proposal not to convene a convention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it respects the institutional process for the czech government to be able to apply protocol no 30 to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the acceptance of that protocol by the czech republic should be implemented in the treaties of the european union through the consultation of the european parliament. the report supports the implementation of protocol no 30, which will improve the protection of eu fundamental rights in the czech republic. this justifies support for the procedure for the application of the protocol in that country. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. protocol no 30 does not exempt the uk and poland from the binding provisions of the charter. it is not an ‘opt-out’. it does not amend the charter. at face value, the protocol would seem not to alter the legal position which would prevail if it were not to exist. yet the very existence of the protocol has given rise to legal uncertainty and political confusion. in that respect, it affects adversely all member states and not just the uk, poland or, prospectively, the czech republic. what is perfectly clear, moreover, is that were protocol no 30 ever to be interpreted as having the effect of limiting the scope or force of the charter’s provisions, the result would be to lower the protection of fundamental rights afforded to people in poland and the uk, and would therefore undermine the efforts of the eu to reach and maintain a uniformly high level of protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the crossborder protection of victims of crime. the report seeks to develop a european protection order for victims so that all member states of the european union will recognise a protection order issued in any of the countries of the union. the european protection order aims to improve the situation of legally protected persons when they move to another eu country, especially those who have been victims of gender-based violence. in this case the report extends protection to civil matters relating to matrimonial property and other types of conflicts which may arise with national legislation where a european protection order exists. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. i fully support the overall concept of the regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures, but consider it imperative to further address the issue of victims of gender-based violence. to this end, i back the report’s approach of making a reference to provisions in the proposal for a directive on victims’ rights. in order to better provide for the needs of victims of gender-based violence, officials likely to come into contact with cases where a person’s physical, psychological and sexual integrity is considered to be at risk – particularly cases of violence against women – should be appropriately trained. the work of civil society, particularly ngos, women’s associations and other voluntary organisations providing specialist support is recognised by the rapporteurs, and member states are encouraged to support the work of, and collaborate with, such organisations in providing support to victims of violence, and particularly female victims.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves an improvement in the existing rules on customs controls in trade relations between the european union and canada. the report specifically addresses improving the safety and information of the methods of operation of supply chains to ensure safety conditions and information exchange in the trade of potentially dangerous substances. this report is only intended to improve these safety conditions to avoid potential risks that may occur in the supply chain, through the exchange of information. the report improves the regulation on the control of potentially dangerous materials. i think that this point needs to be included in international trade agreements. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the customs relations between the eu and canada are based on the agreement on customs cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters that has been in force since 1998. the new agreement extends cooperation to matters related to supply chain security, while building on horizontal provisions and principles of the 1998 agreement; so it is in practice a broadening of the current cooperation and contractual relationship. the framework established by the new agreement does not go beyond cooperation in the areas of information and data exchange, cargo inspections, the elaboration of minimum common standards as main areas. the agreement only sets the basis for working and cooperating towards establishing mutual recognition in some control areas, without however providing the legal basis for mutual recognition arrangements to be set up within the framework thereof.
in writing. − the system of banking authorities and the prudential supervision of credit institutions needs to be revised to take account of the changing economic and financial environment and the need to provide liquidity to the european banking system, with particular reference to the situation of certain member states whose finances are in critical condition. i believe that the banks must be given back their role of supporting policies for the development of the territory and, therefore, of facilitating investment. this can be achieved by implementing a sustainable system of checks and balances which combines the urgent need for a sound banking system with the equally urgent need to relax the constraints of a european economic policy which has been too rigid and which has also affected the work of credit institutions.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new attack on the economic sovereignty of the member states of the european union. the report sets out rules to improve the functioning of financial sector control, seeking to avoid bailouts by the public sector and the banks themselves guaranteeing the sector's deposits, and introduces good initiatives in matters of prudential supervision of the sector, but is based on the transfer of sovereignty to the european banking authority which will be the one to set the criteria and objectives. this is an institution which, in the name of market neutrality, will impose on the member states the conditions laid down by financial capital. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left to the mercy of the banks. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour of the amended proposal, and in favour of postponing the vote on the legislative resolution, as suggested by the rapporteur, mr giegold. on the content, i have followed the line of the rapporteur. instead of sticking to the narrow ‘strictly ssm-related’ changes proposed by the council, we insisted that, in addition to the ecb being treated as other supervisors in the eba, there were a number of points concerning boosting the effectiveness of the eba as the ‘guardian of the single rule book’ for banking supervision that could not await the review scheduled to start in 2013. in particular we tabled amendments addressed at: improving the information gathering powers of the eba in the light of the poor experience of stress testing; ensuring that there are regular annual stress tests of banks under the eba’s overall control; requiring the eba to produce a handbook of best practice supervision to supplement the ‘what?’ of the ‘rulebook’ with a ‘how?’; requiring the eba to promote a diverse banking sector; and ensuring that an appropriate balance is achieved in the voting mechanisms on different decisions, between the ‘home’ country supervisors of a bank and the ‘host’ supervisors of its subsidiaries and branches as well as between the supervisors in the ssm and those outside.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis, as we know, has brought the banking system of some member states to a standstill and at the same time tested its resilience in others. we have repeatedly proposed as an institution a change in the powers of the european central bank, convinced that at this historic moment we need a european credit institution that is strengthened and effective in its action to support the credit institutions of the individual states. in this sense, the lowering of the interest rate threshold was certainly a first step forward. to stimulate growth and development, however, this is not enough: the ecb must guarantee european stability and strength while at the same time ensuring that the public accounts and the accounts of the main national credit institutions are kept.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new attack on the economic sovereignty of the member states of the european union. the report calls for the transfer of specific powers in banking supervision to the european central bank. for years the national banks had the task of supervising and controlling the national financial sectors and, in almost criminal practices, they have evaded their responsibilities by allowing all kinds of evil practices in those sectors. in the case of spain, the illegal marketing of products, the use of abusive clauses and all kinds of excesses by the banking sector have been carried out with the connivance of the banco de españa, which has completely ignored its functions. the improvement of prudential control in the sector is achieved by bringing the responsible to justice and to prison, not by transferring powers to the ecb. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour of the amended proposal, and of postponing the final vote on the legislative resolution. and this despite the fact that some good verts/ale amendments were rejected, such as: giving opt-in countries the right to control decisions in the ecb through a binding mediation procedure in the eba; integrating the ecb’s fees into the european budget, thereby enhancing ep control; ending the possibility of the ecb to adopt ‘regulations’ (the final compromise was to limit these regulations to ‘only where those union acts do not deal with certain aspects necessary for the proper exercise of the ecb’s tasks or do not deal with them in sufficient detail’ – which is more constrained that in the com proposal); and considering another legal base or treaty change to render the common supervisor even more attractive for opt-in countries and solve conflicts of interests as well as the exclusion of insurance. (the final compromise requires a review that must consider ‘developing further the ssm on the basis of any provision in the existing treaties or the treaty changes potentially required in order to make the ssm work more efficiently’ – which is, of course, much weaker).
in writing. - this report, which is one of the two legislative drafts establishing the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) for banks, headed by the european central bank (ecb), is a very important step towards the 'banking union'. in particular, the proposal provides for the ecb to be given responsibilities for the preventive supervision of euro area credit institutions. the bank shall also have exclusive competence to monitor and detect risks to the viability of banks and may require action in this regard. although i support all the measures proposed in the report, the final vote has not been taken, pending the views of certain national parliaments and the conclusion of some interinstitutional negotiations between the european parliament and the ecb.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a substantial improvement in the safety and compulsory information required of the various pyrotechnic products used in europe. there are cultural practices in the use of this type of material, such as the fallas de valencia, which are not affected by the fact that this is a report that has no prohibitionist intention but seeks to regulate the obligations of information, control and authorization. improved legislation in this area, setting similar standards in all member states to ensure the safe handling of these products, is a step forward in ensuring safety without limiting free use. there are many cultural events in spain which use a wide variety of such products and this report guarantees reasonable safety standards without prohibiting such practices. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. this report makes modifications to a proposal of the european commission recasting directive 2007/23/ec on the placing on the market of pyrotechnic articles. it was presented in november 2011 in the framework of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’ covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec, and regulation 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the present proposal is part of a package, aligning nine product directives to the nlf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a good source of information on the way in which the member states of the union regulate audiovisual media services. the report critically analyses how the aforementioned regulation is being implemented and includes a serious warning about the countries monitored. the study acknowledges the technical advances which the development of the sector at european level has brought in recent years with the development of numerous channels, but does not leave aside the question of content. the study acknowledges shortcomings in the control of serious offences that may affect the protection of children, the promotion of alcoholic beverages, the promotion of hatred, etc. this report is a good tool to show the reality of the sector in the union. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the audiovisual media services directive because i believe above all that the eu must have a legislative framework that guarantees all citizens of europe access to information and to a plurality of opinions. these are essential elements for our european democracy. i fully agree with the idea that european regulations on this subject should be standardised, especially when it comes to standardising upwards, always with a view to strengthening the freedom of information of citizens.
in writing. − in favour. the main aim of the report is to evaluate the effectiveness of directive 2010/13/eu on audiovisual media services and the progress made in its transposition. the directive is the cornerstone of media regulation in the european union. under article 33, the commission is required to submit a report to the european parliament on the application of the directive in the member states every three years. publication of the commission’s first report was significantly delayed owing, inter alia, to the fact that some member states had not fully transposed the directive within the indicated deadline.
mr president, i raised this point this morning on behalf of my political group in an attempt to respect the agreement which the house adopted on 18 april last to hold the debate on the guantanamo resolution at the april partsession and to proceed to the vote at this part-session in may. the president of the sitting, mrs podimata, has asked us to put this request in writing, which my group has done, and she said that this decision would be taken at the beginning of the sitting at 3 p.m. today. i would like to know, mr president, exactly what the procedure is and when we are going to put an end to this vexing matter so that the house can act in accordance with the commitments it has made, as my colleague, mrs véronique de keyser, said this morning on behalf of the socialist group, since the president of the socialist group made a counterproposal to the proposal i made and the house unanimously accepted this decision. so i would be grateful if you would clarify the procedure for us, mr president. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, this is a crisis that has brought unspeakable suffering to the people of syria and has already gone beyond syria’s borders, dramatically destabilising the whole region. the european union has consistently supported the vision of a political settlement outlined in the geneva communiqué. high representative and vice-president ashton has officially expressed her full support for the joint call made by united states secretary of state, john kerry, and russian foreign minister lavrov to convene an international peace conference on syria as soon as possible as a follow-up to the geneva conference of june 2012. keeping the political track alive is paramount for the european union. next week’s foreign affairs council discussion will take stock of where we stand, while also tackling the politically sensitive issue of adapting the european union sanctions regime. the european union should continue its engagement with the national coalition for syrian revolutionary and opposition forces while remaining open to cooperation with other moderate groups. the european union urges all parties to the conflict to fully respect international humanitarian and human rights law and condemns terrorist attacks of any nature, including any assaults that may endanger the civilian population. the number of people in need of assistance in syria – we are talking about 4.25 million internally displaced people – and the number of refugees – some 1.5 million – arriving in the neighbouring countries continues to grow at an exponential pace. the unhcr estimates that, by the end of 2013, the number of syrian refugees will have reached 3.5 million, with 1 million refugees in each of lebanon, jordan and turkey and a further 500 000 in iraq. were this to be the case, it would mean that, by the end of this year, syrian refugees would account for 25% of the lebanese population and 16% of the jordanian population. the sharp increase in the number of refugees has increased the humanitarian needs at an alarming rate, outpacing current relief efforts and assistance. the economic costs of hosting syrian refugees were estimated in 2013 at usd 700 million for lebanon and usd 851 million for jordan, respectively 1.6% and 2.9% of the gdp of countries which are already heavily indebted. the cost to turkey so far has been about eur 600 million and is expected to reach eur 1 billion by the end of the year. to respond to this challenge, the united nations is expected to issue a revised appeal for at least usd 3 billion in june 2013, their largest appeal ever for a single crisis. to address these exploding needs, the european union has repeatedly increased its funding to become the first donor, with eur 860 million of assistance pledged, of which most has already been disbursed. standing tall, the european union has repeatedly called on all donors to deliver on existing pledges and to increase their contributions. we are improving coordination among donors and welcome the assistance coordination unit’s efforts as regards using all channels to provide assistance everywhere in syria. we will work to strengthen this syrian-led effort and will work tirelessly to improve access for our aid. we are also working intensively to mobilise significant additional funds this year with a view to addressing the plight of the refugees and stabilising syria’s neighbouring countries. this will require a long-term commitment and a regional approach. to better coordinate our efforts, the commission and the european external action service, together with the member states, are working on a comprehensive response to the crisis, which will also include dealing with the threats stemming from the potential use of chemical weapons, the presence of european fighters in the country and the provision of international protection to syrians in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the humanitarian situation, as the commissioner has just explained to us, is terrible, with over 100 000 dead, six million internal and external refugees, my group would have preferred that this debate had taken place in the wake of the latest events: the statements by the president of france and the minister of defence of that country, before yesterday in the committee on foreign affairs; the opposition conference which took place yesterday in madrid; the press conference to be held tomorrow in jordan by the united states secretary of state; the arab league meeting; the next opposition meeting in istanbul; the expiry of the embargo on 31st of this month; and, of course, mr president, the geneva conference, following the announced meeting between the united states secretary of state and the russian foreign minister. but here the question is what the position of the parties will be. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the middle east. and one wonders what the position will be of other actors, such as israel, iran, turkey, qatar, or saudi arabia, who have conflicting interests. in the meantime, the humanitarian situation is worsening, atrocities are taking place in this country and i think, commissioner, that, beyond humanitarian aid, we should ask ourselves what we can do. there is a clear difference between russia's position and that of the rest of the western world on the future of assad, but beyond that difference there is a convergence in the international community to avoid chaos in syria - even though we are already very close to a situation of chaos - and a radical islamist regime. let us take advantage of this convergence to seek concrete short-term solutions to put an end to this massacre and these atrocities. and it seems, commissioner, that, except in the field of humanitarian aid, where the european union is doing so, given its possibilities, frankly, the european union is being left out of the political solution.
mr president, the situation in syria is deteriorating dramatically, to the consternation of a europe plunged into the worst crisis in its history, which unfortunately also limits our capacity to respond. i had the honour of chairing a delegation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to jordan to assess the situation of refugees, particularly in zaatari camp, where there are about 100,000 people, mostly women and children, and which has been described, indeed, as one of the largest cities in jordan at the moment. this situation raises a lot of capacity problems for jordan, which is showing generosity, but needs financial support. for many of us, the european union must increase it in a way that is both expected and, in the view of many, unstoppable. the resolution we are debating today also raises the need to keep the borders open to syrian and palestinian refugees. but above all, it calls for cooperation in fair burden-sharing, cooperation with the neighbouring arab countries and, of course, emphasis on maintaining law and order and respect for human rights and security in the refugee camp, so that intolerable human rights violations do not occur. finally, we also call on the member states to take on the refugee influx and reception programme that will have to be addressed if we are to live up to the impressive human and humanitarian drama that the syrian crisis is posing for the european union.
madam president, in the face of this humanitarian tragedy, i express my solidarity with the displaced and refugees from syria, with the women and girls sold for 2 500 euros to old saudis, with the children, with the elderly. i have proposed, and i am proposing here, madam, that we do what we did with the libyan displaced. then we went to the shousha camps. today i propose that the libe committee, which is responsible for this matter, should go to the fields of jordan, lebanon and turkey. they have to feel us. we must show the unequivocal solidarity of the european parliament and the european union, and we must explain what is happening to parliament, to the community institutions and to the world, firsthand. and, madam president, we must open our doors to this tragedy. we must open the door to resettlement and settlement for refugees, for the libyan vulnerable, especially children and women.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, it seems that we all agree that the frozen assets should be returned, but i cannot help but point out that the european union played a negative role, that is to say that the association agreements were not frozen with either ben ali or mubarak. i'll never forget this. and it seems that we are now, on the basis of this idea, which we share, making our aid conditional on respect for human rights. so far from reality. in morocco, in the maghreb, 50% of the companies listed on the stock exchange are owned by the royal house and practically all the territory is the king's. there, in morocco, all human rights, all, almost all, are trampled underfoot, and morocco illegally occupies territory in western sahara. but we could talk about bahrain, or we could talk about saudi arabia. so let us not wash our faces with this question, because it is true that assets must be returned, but we must also audit the odious debt and oppose the international monetary fund's imposition of inhuman conditions.
mr president, i see the negotiations on a trade and investment partnership as a historic opportunity to strengthen the relationship between the european union and the united states. in previous resolutions, this parliament had already called for these negotiations to be launched. we now have a unique opportunity to inject new dynamism into this relationship. this is a new dynamism which is very convenient at a time of deep economic crisis on both sides of the atlantic. a new dynamism is also opportune politically, because many believe that the transatlantic relationship could lose momentum because of the united states' turn towards asia. a new dynamism when many consider that what we call the west is losing its leadership role in a multipolar world in which the brics are the ones growing, especially china. a new dynamism, commissioner, which will boost world trade, since the negotiation of this agreement will probably help to accelerate various trade negotiations which are now stalled. the agreement also opens up a wider atlantic perspective, given the free trade agreements that the european union and the united states have or will soon have with other american countries, including mexico, canada, the central american countries, colombia, peru and chile. a new eu-us agreement could lead, with the necessary adjustments, to a very large free trade area including all the above countries. in short, a large triangular area encompassing the european union, the united states and canada and several latin american countries. in addition to the positive effect on the bilateral relationship, the agreement will have a wider atlantic dimension, to which must be added its beneficial global repercussions due to its inevitable global projection, as elmar brok has mentioned earlier.
mr president, if this important transatlantic agreement is successful, the two great economic blocs of the world will constitute the largest free trade and investment area that has ever existed. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. efforts will be made to eliminate tariffs and open up the respective markets to investment, services and public procurement. in addition, efforts will be made to harmonise standards and requirements for the marketing of goods and services. the latter is a key strategic component. it should be noted that the world economy is increasingly moving from the atlantic to the pacific, which is of particular concern to europe, which may be relegated to a secondary position on the world economic stage. this transatlantic agreement will guarantee the european union a position on the world economic stage. there is a general political will to move forward swiftly and decisively, as the necessary conditions for a firm commitment by both sides have never been met before. but we can't fool ourselves, because the road will certainly not be easy. during the negotiations, the european union must take account of and be mindful of the particular sensitivity of certain areas, such as agriculture, and ensure that the fundamental values of neither party are affected. in view of this, it is time for the european union to act with high vision and ambition. this is a unique opportunity that neither the european union nor the united states can afford to miss.
mr president, we are facing a possible agreement, a desired agreement, an agreement between two great powers. the council has said: an open agreement, a fair agreement, and the commissioner has asked for a broad mandate. but we must not fail to recognise and tackle the difficulties that exist. the resolution contains many points, but the points specifically point out that we are faced with two different models: in principle, from the agricultural point of view, we note that the united states has large, industrialized and aided farms. in europe we have small farmers, a poor cap and, of course, family industries. as regards gmos, this is an issue that the united states does not want to let go of, but how can we establish a health guarantee? for industry, services and smes, it is an opportunity, but smes and industry need transparency, access and simplicity. the scope of the mandate cannot therefore absolve us of our responsibility.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to solve the problems of our citizens, to make life much easier. we are talking about article 5 here, and we need to analyse it, to know what we can do to correct what is not working or what is working worse. to make the instruments at our disposal, as we know, the effectiveness of macro-regional strategies, which give answers to citizens, to problems, to challenges, especially for the future, more profitable. we must look to the future because, as my colleague mr kandenbach has said, we must find a solution to this problem. we know that europe will not be built in a day. it will be done gradually, but above all with the will and the ambition to be european and to make europe more european every day. we must continue to move forward and be ambitious in setting up new macro-regions. the point of attention must also be placed, as this parliament has said, on the atlantic and mediterranean macro-region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he expects to see a macro-regional strategy for the atlantic and mediterranean regions in the near future.
blue card question. what is it? madam president, commissioner, i would like to ask you, as i have asked others, something that is not sufficiently mentioned in this debate. a terrible tragedy has occurred in bangladesh. there have been over 1,000 deaths, we are all shocked. but, a lot happens in the european union, weeks and months go by and people forget. what i would like is that measures be taken that are irreversible and that prevent such events from happening again today, not only in bangladesh but also in china, singapore, korea and other countries in southeast asia where there are no conditions for either physical security or social security for these workers. in short, our most immediate instrument is the multinational textile companies with european headquarters, which we can impose very strong sanctions on to prevent them from producing again in these textile companies. do you support that measure?
madam president, dunning said in a footnote to capital: capital is horrified by the absence of profit. if the profit is adequate, capital becomes bold; at 20%, it becomes impulsive; at 50%, it becomes reckless; by 100%, it will violate all human laws, and by 300%, no crime will frighten it, even if it runs the risk of being hanged. yes, the fundamental problem is that european capital is partly responsible for this crime, as is a corrupt, inhumane system based on exploitation, deregulation, offshoring and tax havens. this is the fundamental problem, which no one from the european union, from this neoliberal european union, wants to touch, because it lives on business, on the accumulation of capital at the expense of european employment, at the expense of european public services and at the expense of human lives, because there is no mercy, it is about accumulating capital at any price.
mr president, the sinking of the bangladesh factory, with more than 1 100 dead, which - as the commissioner has said - is not the only one, is a tragedy and provokes outrage about the working conditions and the very facilities where they work in bangladesh. the european union is the largest importer of textile products, which also harms our own imports because of the speculation that occurs with low-wage production there. what we are asking for in the resolution are measures that the commission can take, such as guaranteeing the right to trade unionism, also responsible conduct on the part of multinationals. the commissioner said that 24 companies had joined - few companies compared to those who buy such large quantities of textiles in bangladesh. and the gsp, which has been said to be a small but important number, could be conditional on those who do not comply with ilo standards and human rights. we must not only say that we must work, but we must do it. there have been many accidents and concrete measures must be taken.
mr president, this terrible tragedy is an example of negligence, a sad accident, an example of complicity, of the impunity of the exploitation of poverty. many people lost their lives and many injured people lost their jobs too. bangladesh is the second largest textile exporter in the world and european garment companies that contract or subcontract from bangladesh must comply with international social responsibility practices. i know what i'm talking about because i live in a country that has one of the leading textile exporting companies. because these women, who work in the textile industry, have low wages, undignified working conditions and work short-term, under pressure. we have a shared responsibility, between those who consume, those who produce, those who direct. commissioner, it is with regret that the previous commissioner has abandoned this debate. when it comes to commercial matters, it stays, but when it comes to human rights, it goes away. we are asking, commissioner, that the european union's trade agreements include a binding clause on corporate social responsibility.
mr president, i would like to pay tribute to the victims of bangladesh in these words: i am concerned about the frontal gaze, the gaze we have in europe, limited to ourselves but not seeing others. how far can we go? we are not going to go as far as we decide to do so in order to put an end to the abuses, the conditions of misery and slavery, as the united nations considers them, where workers are paid less than 30 euros a month and work in conditions which are not only unsafe but above all unworthy. the european union cannot ignore the red lines which are drawn against the fundamental rights of third country nationals. we don't want for others what we don't want for ourselves! we have to change the nature of corporate social responsibility. good practice is not enough; we must respect the ilo, oecd and un conventions, binding standards, and put an end to political cynicism and guarantee security, dignity and social rights. nothing more or less than enforcing the founding treaty.
mr president, what has happened in bangladesh is not an accident, it is the consequence of years of promoting and enabling the globalisation of capital and production in the face of the globalisation of trade unionism, social justice, human rights and the social welfare of workers. and then we make resolutions like someone lifting a weight off their shoulders. it is not just resolutions that are required: it is a shift from a voluntary business ethic to a demanding business ethic. and the european institutions have enough mechanisms and strength to be able to raise the demand for corporate responsibility, to raise measures that make it clear who complies and who does not. and make it public. who practices this new slavery, and who doesn't. and let it be known. and who is having exemplary behavior as an entrepreneur, even what pedagogy is reserved for consumers. we cannot go from resolution to resolution, we must go from action to action if we want the european union to be a europe of dignity, of citizens of dignity, who also consume with dignity. in this case, what is needed are commitments and measurable actions to prevent such tragic deaths.
mr president, mr daul is right to trust the democracy of the socialists, because we are certainly a group, perhaps not the most important but not the least important of all the groups, which has always defended democracy in europe. and we are defending it in other countries where there are governments which the group of the european people's party usually respects and protects, including in this parliament. mr. daul was asking if we were being held hostage by anyone. we are not hostages to anyone, we are servants of our values and our democratic principles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is purely technical in nature, since it only proposes the change of date to ensure legal certainty in the customs area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this report is merely trying to change the dates laid down to ensure that there is a community customs regulation in force at all times. this report is not part of the union's customs policy which will have to be dealt with in the european parliament through another report and therefore does not create problems and ensures that there is a rule at all times. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the directive contains only one article extending the date of application of the existing community customs code to 1 november 2013. the existing ‘community customs code’ (i.e. the legislation which provides for the procedures to control the import of products to the eu territory) is currently under revision and will be replaced by the ‘union customs code’, mainly in order to be better adapted to the new digital environment. negotiations between the parliament and the council on this new union custom code have just been finalised. however, it was not be possible to formally adopt in plenary this new legislation before the date of expiry of the existing community customs code in june 2013. therefore it has been necessary to adopt a technical directive extending the date of application of the existing code, in order to avoid any legal gap.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it seeks to restore trade preferences with a country where, despite having ended forced labour, according to the ilo itself, the army continues to exercise undemocratic control over society. violence and repression against minorities, the recruitment of child soldiers, etc., create an extremely fragile situation where the re-establishment of exports can only have negative effects on the workforce and positive effects on multinationals. the reopening of trade in such fragile contexts usually coincides with the worsening of security conditions in the country and new violence. by restoring tariff preferences, the eu is only seeking to consolidate its economic influence and its neo-colonial power. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − against. the greens have a particular interest in burma. concerning the particular gsp issue, inta greens proposed a conditioned positive approach, with a provisional ‘yes’ for 18 months, close monitoring and political accompanying to make sure that promised improvements will be irreversible, also in the light of a recent human rights watch report (1), a report by the european council on foreign relations (2), an appeal by cetri (3); and finally a us decision of 3 may 2013, to maintain targeted sanctions. with this perspective, we supported david martin’s position on resolution 110(2), adding language on ongoing problems and the need to further monitor envisaged eradication of forced labour and other human rights violations. though in inta the initial text was weakened by epp-ale-ecr amendments, the greens finally supported it, in order to avoid the worst (a rejection of the whole text). however, in plenary, the final text was too weak to be voted in favour, so we opposed.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it attempts to impose once again a criminal neoliberal ideology, whereby states must be mere servants of international capital, making their costs as cheap as possible in order to attract foreign investment as the only way of generating economic growth. this ideology, which the international oligarchs present as the neutrality of market mechanisms and competitiveness, hides the complete fraud that sovereign law must accept the designs of capital. the report seeks to strengthen mechanisms whereby international investors can claim monetary compensation for losses on their investments and to reduce the independence of member states in exercising political control over international investments. that is why i voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of this management framework for financial accountability. when a trade dispute arises for the european union or for the member states, they can now know what their responsibilities are if a trade dispute is brought before a member state or the eu. this framework allows the european union and the member states to deal with their trading partners in a calm manner. this is therefore a breakthrough in the field of trade negotiations, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour of the amended proposal, also in favour of postponing the final legislative vote. we as greens, believe that foreign investors should not have direct access to international tribunals, which discriminates against domestic investors who do not have this option. like domestic investors, also foreign investors should be required to seek remedy through domestic courts. only if domestic courts decline a claim, a foreign investor might be granted additional rights, which however should by default be framed in a state-to-state dispute, as is the norm under wto trade remedy rules. we recognize, on the other hand, that eu member states would block any commission initiative to come to an eu-wide investment protection agreement with a third country, if such agreement would provide for considerably less investor protection than their bits with third country did so far. in short, should isds be scrapped from the commission's repertoire, the new european competence on investment would simply be boycotted case by case. thus, we support the new eu competence against the resistance of the member states.
in writing. - my position is to support all initiatives aimed at attracting foreign direct investment, particularly in the medium and high-tech sectors. a proposal like this to attract investment should provide legal certainty and ensure a speedy and effective resolution of conflicts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it does not deal with any controversial issue and it improves the right of pet owners to be able to move their pets across the borders of the member states of the european union. this report covers a number of technical aspects which it is seeking to reform because of the difficulty that european citizens and accredited agents have in complying with them. this relaxation of the conditions for the movement of animals is logical in the light of an increase in such movements of pet animals which is due to the increased mobility of union citizens due to the problems generated by the crisis. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. an issue for greens/efa was to establish an eu wide database for pet movement, in order to guarantee more traceability in the event of an outbreak of disease, and to cut down illegal trade. the amendment was lost (there will be a commission declaration only). in order to minimise the risk of commercial movements being disguised as non-commercial movements, we also supported to stick to a maximum of five animals which are permitted to accompany the owner. we agreed to the compromise, which allows for some derogation. we did not support derogations regarding the requirement of an anti-rabies vaccination, but agreed to the compromise, which allows for limited derogations in the case of very young animals. we agreed to giving the possibility to member states to allow the implantation by transponders by other qualified persons than veterinarians, as in some member states, it is common practice that the operation is performed by animal welfare organisations or local authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it does not deal with any controversial issue and it improves the health conditions and requirements for the trade in pet animals across the borders of the member states of the european union. this report covers various technical aspects to ensure the health conditions under which european citizens receive their pets and to improve the safety conditions for european citizens who acquire a pet in any member state. improving the control of health conditions for the sale of pet animals is logical in the face of increased mobility of europeans to ensure that uniform health safety standards are respected in all member states. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to amend council directive 92/65/eec, which becomes necessary in order to adapt the references to the new regulation (and to an earlier adopted regulation). moreover, the requirement that a clinical examination is carried out on animals 24 hours before the dispatch was extended to 48 hours before shipment of the animals, in accordance with the recommendations of the world organisation for animal health. again, we, greens/efa agreed to the compromise, which allows for some derogation. we did not support derogations regarding the requirement of an anti-rabies vaccination, but agreed to the compromise, which allows for limited derogations in the case of very young animals. we agreed to giving the possibility to member states to allow the implantation by transponders by other qualified persons than veterinarians, as in some member states, it is common practice that the operation is performed by animal welfare organisations or local authorities.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it recognises the role of the european institutions in the economic policy of the member states, even though the report criticises the commission for not having relied on parliament in the elaboration of the union's macroeconomic governance and the move towards economic and monetary union. however, this is not a criticism of substance, but only a criticism of the fact that it was drafted behind the backs of the european parliament. this institutional debate, which may have some political implications of interest, is meaningless when it is empty of content, since the report acknowledges as positive the plunder that austerity policies are carrying out in southern europe. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. as a member of parliament who defends the interests of the social majorities, i am voting against this report because when structural reforms such as those being carried out in europe are implemented and when the treaties are amended, the first reform to be carried out is to consult the citizens by means of a referendum. the last economic reform again failed to consult the people, as happened in the spanish state. citizens should not suffer the consequences of the policy mistakes of austerity and the negative impacts of economic reforms affecting social inclusion, labour and social rights in general, education, public health and equality.
in writing. − in favour. in my opinion, governance in the eu must not infringe on the prerogatives of the european parliament and the national parliaments, especially whenever any transfer of sovereignty is envisaged. thus, it needed to be stressed that proper legitimacy and accountability require democratic decisions and must be ensured at national and eu levels by national parliaments and the european parliament respectively. the text recalls the principle set out in the conclusions of the december 2012 european council that ‘throughout the process, the general objective remains to ensure democratic legitimacy and accountability at the level at which decisions are taken and implemented’.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is a new propaganda tool of the conservative groups in the european parliament to call for war and try to justify it. although i do not support the assad regime, i do not think there is any justification for military intervention and creating a new disaster like the one in libya, as most eu governments are proposing. the bombing, the transport and the trade of arms can only lead to an increase in violence and to the destruction of countries, as we have seen in iraq, afghanistan, libya and many other countries where armed conflict, when it ends, leaves a desolate landscape of violence that destroys coexistence for years. this report is only trying to hold the assad regime accountable, which is a party to the crimes in the conflict, but there is another party, which is being armed by eu countries and which is also criminal. i voted against this resolution because it lacks a rigorous approach and because it encourages taking sides in the conflict.
in writing. - the conflict in syria has been dragging on for more than two years. since then, the european parliament has produced a total of seven resolutions. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the un and its member states are able to take effective action to combat it.
in writing. − abstention. in the green proposal for a resolution we insisted heavily on some aspects relating to the refugees, emphasising the importance of all actors involved in the refugee crisis – including the host countries’ authorities, international organisations, ngos and donors – stepping up the coordination of their efforts and making the most efficient and transparent use possible of the available funding and humanitarian assistance, including for northern syria. the final text was too weak and ambiguous. so we abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it deals rigorously with the question of establishing mechanisms for the recovery of the assets of the governments prior to the arab spring. these countries were the european union's main allies in the area and now the european union has a clear responsibility in returning these assets to the public coffers of these countries. this resolution does not deal with the question of how to continue to cooperate in the same way with dictatorial countries which do not respect human rights, as is the case in morocco, but it does deal effectively with the problem of the return of assets, which is a real plunder of the economic resources of the arab spring countries. because of the urgent need for these funds for the development of new states with greater social justice and the unjustifiability of such plunder, i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the recovery of assets lost to corruption by dictatorial regimes in the southern mediterranean countries must be a priority for the eu. it is imperative and urgent to establish a european mechanism of researchers, prosecutors, lawyers and other experts to provide support and legal and technical advice to the countries currently in transition to democracy in the mediterranean region.
in writing. − in favour. the debt contracted by authoritarian regimes against the interests of their population and not spent in their interest constitutes odious debt. civil society organisations and parliamentarians from tunisia and egypt have called for an independent audit of their national debt. tunisian president marzouki, in his speech at the european parliament on 1 february 2013, called for the european member states to follow the example of germany by converting part of the tunisian external debt contracted during the ben ali regime into development assistance. over 100 members of the european parliament have signed a petition calling for payment of the tunisian external debt to be suspended pending an independent audit, in order to identify the odious and illegitimate part of this debt. a quarter of the tunisian external debt is held by france and the european investment bank, according to the world bank. we also call for the immediate establishment of an eu mechanism composed of a team of investigators, prosecutors, lawyers and other experts from member states and other european and non-european countries concerned, including canada and the united states, with the aim of providing legal and technical advice and assistance to arab spring countries in the process of asset recovery.
in writing. - question no 1: i am in favour of cancelling the external debt of poor countries and i understand that an extension can be made to debts contracted by dictatorial regimes (odious debt), as mentioned in amendment no 2, which i have supported. i abstain on this amendment because the classification of 'odious debt' must be made individually and in each case.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it is a new justification for the imperialist intervention of the european union in the balkan region. bosnia-herzegovina remains a un protectorate where no political stabilisation has taken place. the resolution describes a region ravaged by foreign intervention where ethnic and religious conflicts persist without any solution. it remains a high-risk area, as international intervention has never succeeded in pacifying it. the resolution criticises the position of local elites, but does not go into the role played by the eu and international institutions in the rise and maintenance of these elites. for these reasons, i have decided to abstain from voting on this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. most of our amendments have been adopted, and the report as adopted is generally good. amendments which have not been adopted are: am 7 epp calling for the suspension of bosnia's membership in the council of europe, supension of interim agreement and suspension of ipa funding; am 10 alde promoting the us embassy-sponsored constitutional reform process, and am 6 greens in favour of liberalising eu labour market for bosnian citizens.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it restates the process of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia's accession to the european union. it is a report to justify an imperialist annexationism which only aims to integrate this territory into the common market, but looks the other way on questions of internal democracy. macedonia has problems with greece and bulgaria, over the very name of the area that different nationalist movements in the country aspire to unify. greece maintains that the negotiation on the denomination of the territory of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia must be completed before the accession process can be launched. with the growth of political instability, these annexationist ideas are growing in the country and the european union is only catering to the greed of increasing its market when it comes to annexing new member states. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the votes went as expected. our only amendment, dealing with the name issue, was rejected with 410 votes against and 119 in favour. once again, the ep missed an opportunity to play an active role in this question and pave the way for the settlement of the dispute. the resolution was finally adopted with 505 votes in favour and 61 against.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it involves a new trade agreement which deepens the economic interconnection between two markedly unequal markets. this resolution expresses the intention to increase transatlantic trade relations which will affect the cultural diversity of the continent, the rights of workers, farmers, etc. this increase in trade relations will expose the european production system to the large american companies which, because of their high concentration, can destroy thousands of small european companies. this resolution represents a strengthening at all levels of transatlantic trade cooperation which will further interconnect the economies on both sides of the ocean, introducing the aggressive principles of american and its companies' competitiveness into the economic and social structures which are resisting in europe with a much smaller size of companies. i have therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. against. a sad majority of social democrats, liberals and conservatives has sent a very bad signal to the european economy, to our choices in society, to democracy, by voting for this resolution. in the absence of a common economic and industrial policy, europe finds itself in a position of inferiority vis-à-vis the united states, which is much better at defending its interests and does not, like the european commission, believe dogmatically in the merits of free trade. worse still, since the transatlantic trade in goods has already been liberalized, it is the rights and rules that organise our economy and our way of living together, our choices of society, that are going to be negotiated: cultural exception, public services, intellectual property, gmos, chlorinated meat, hormone-treated beef, geographical indications, social, health or environmental standards...
in writing. - amendment no 16: i abstain because the concern expressed in this amendment, which i support, is already reflected in other parts of the resolution that has been voted on. i am in favour of the setting of a precise timetable, within the framework of the negotiating mandate, for dealing with the most sensitive areas (such as the wto and the protection of public health and the environment) between the two parties, including the possibility of excluding certain aspects from the treaty where the adequate protection and equality of european interests are not guaranteed.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it seeks to restore trade preferences with a country where, despite improved working conditions, the ilo itself says that the army continues to exercise undemocratic control over society. violence and repression against minorities, the recruitment of child soldiers, etc. create an extremely fragile situation where the re-establishment of exports can only have negative effects on the labour force and positive effects on multinationals. the reopening of trade in such fragile contexts usually coincides with the worsening of security conditions in the country and new violence. the eu is only seeking to consolidate its economic influence and its neo-colonial power. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the government of burma must adhere to the principles of good governance and release all remaining political prisoners without delay or conditions. the government of burma must ensure respect for freedom of opinion, expression, assembly and association, and continue its close cooperation with organisations such as the ilo in order to eradicate forced labour and make sure that the implementation of laws on labour organisations and peaceful demonstrations and gatherings is consistent with international human rights standards.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, despite proposing interesting crossborder cooperation measures in the alpine region, it introduces the neoliberal governance criteria which are characteristic of the european institutions. these regional strategies are considered successful for implementing crossborder cooperation policies taking into account the specific socio-economic and environmental context of the region. however, these regional policy instruments are linked to the union's objectives, such as the 2020 strategy, giving these instruments a neoliberal content that determines the direction of development of the regions concerned. i have abstained from voting on this resolution because i do not share the objectives for which regional policy is to be coordinated.
in writing. − in favour. we welcome the current developments in, and the strong bottom-up approach adopted by, the regions of the alpine area, which have repeatedly expressed their desire for an alpine strategy to address effectively challenges common to the entire alpine arc, to exploit its considerable potential more consistently and to address the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchange, and civil protection in the alpine region. we also believes that the geographical scope of a strategy for the alps must focus on the territory covered by the alpine convention, thereby distinguishing it from the extra-alpine region, with its larger cities and centres of industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a good way of forcing bangladesh to develop a labour policy which will not allow these continuing accidents which are taking place and costing the lives of thousands of workers to happen again. i think that the report does not condemn the role of european multinationals enough, but it is urgent that bangladesh does not enjoy a preferential trade system with the european union until there is progress in labour law, trade unionism and health and safety conditions at work. i will not fail to point out that european capital is to blame for these massacres of workers, while jobs are being destroyed in europe, this is what the relocation of capital means. but because of the urgency of action against bangladesh, i have voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. i vote in favour. more than 1,100 dead! this is the macabre figure that has been waiting for international opinion to finally take an interest in the plight of the workers of bangladesh. it took the rana plaza disaster for europe to finally look at other figures than the "only 20 euros" for a trendy dress or jacket of this or that brand. how long will asian workers be exploited in conditions of modern slavery? the profits of multinational companies cannot continue to be built on the tragedies of some and the portfolios of others. the big brands, at the foot of the wall, say they have signed an agreement that should improve the working conditions of the workers. that's not enough! the european legislation must be changed to make the parent companies responsible for the undignified practices of their subcontractors. we shall strike two kills with one stone, avoiding any relocation of production to countries where working conditions are even harsher.
mr president, as a matter of fact we are not confronting a simple philosophical question here. the death penalty is an irreversible and cruel punishment which violates the right to life. it is a norm recognised by all members of the un in the universal declaration of human rights, and there is no evidence at all to suggest that it serves as a deterrent. in the specific case we are dealing with, national and international human rights organisations have raised serious questions about the fairness of afzal guru’s trial. he did not have representation in the decisive lower court, and the confession that he made in police custody was allegedly made under torture and later rejected by guru. guru’s family was not informed prior to the execution and a final farewell was thus denied to them. even his body was not released to them. because of all this, we reiterate our long-standing opposition to the death penalty under all circumstances – i repeat, all circumstances – and i emphasise once again that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – there is a very simple answer. the basic question here is the irreversibility of the measure. this is the basis of any discussion on that topic. apart from this, you might agree or not with whatever reasons are behind this, but the irreversibility of this is out of the question. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am sorry to say that i think this has nothing to do with the topic we are discussing, so i simply will not answer that question.
mr president, i would like to congratulate salvatore iacolino on his work. it is the beginning of a journey, the beginning of a task; i believe that the vitality of your effort has to do with the possibility of helping to detect, prevent, combat and punish money laundering, corruption, essentially. i think, by cooperating together, we're on the right track. but, mr president, i would like to say a few words about the european prosecutor. when mrs reding presents her legislative proposal here, you will see that the european prosecutor will only have powers to understand the correct use of union funds. as you can see, the da is not going to have any jurisdiction to fight against illegal arms or drug trafficking, or against credit card fraud or human trafficking. it is therefore appropriate that, in a second stage, when we are in the presence of the final report, we can clearly define, already, what the powers of the european prosecutor are so as not to fall into frustration. congratulations on your work, mr. iacolino.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and also mrs malmström on her political will. in organized crime and money laundering, the most painful thing is when it involves human trafficking. the directive 2011/36/eu on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and the strategy that completes it have been two absolutely fundamental milestones, levers to be able to work forward. but i would also like to highlight four urgent points. we need more and better data to better understand, assess and compare the phenomenon, which is increasingly changing and difficult to define because it is mixed with other crimes; data also to be able to set concrete objectives for combating and reducing; data to fight against some myths, such as, for example, that women who are victims of sexual exploitation are not european - we know that, after enlargement, most are european. we also need to develop and strengthen the protection of victims, a subject which is already well developed in the directive and which, in times of cuts and imposed austerity, always runs a great risk; it is especially urgent to be able to free them from the need to act as witnesses. we must also provide the necessary means for those who are fighting this social scourge. and finally, we need to use all the means of the european union to raise awareness among citizens in order to reduce the demand for goods and services from trafficking in human beings for labour and sexual exploitation.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome this package because i think it is very positive that we are beginning to talk about social policy, not in negative terms but in terms of how we have to approach the traditional protection function, to which, in addition, in this time of crisis, is added the fact that it produces an automatic stabilisation of the economy and is a factor of social investment. but all this, commissioner, will be reduced to mere words if at the next european council in june we do not create a genuine social pillar in which the terms of economic governance are placed at the level they should be. because that is very good, but in the meantime a new european architecture is being built in which social issues remain secondary and the epsco council is a secondary council to the ecofin council. and this imbalance, commissioner, makes all this impossible. that is why we are calling for social issues to be included in the european semester on an equal footing and we are also calling for a social pact in europe, not just a social pact, because good dialogue and quality dialogue are essential to tackling the problems of the crisis and, above all, the problems of european construction, and to involve citizens and workers and not just technocrats. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr cercas, you have spoken about the importance of this social investment package being incorporated into the european semester, and i really ask you whether you think it is compatible because i do not know who we should believe: commissioner andor when he says that we must tackle the social problems that this economic crisis is causing at their root, or the papers that the commission is drafting when it is making real havoc in the social policy of the member states through the country-specific recommendations on pensions, on the labour market, on social dialogue, in the framework of the european semester? it is true that you are right when you say that a social policy must be compatible with a coordinated economic policy, but is that really possible with this college of commissioners?
the answer is 'blue card'. i do trust commissioner andor, but at the same time i deeply distrust commissioner olli rehn, or i totally doubt, after reading the recommendations to the member states, that there is any sensitivity in the college of commissioners, because once again they are talking about a policy of cuts, once again they are talking about a policy in which social security, the welfare system, instead of helping to solve the economic crisis, are, for the college, an expense, not a social investment. so there is a contradiction, mr andor, and you have to give some private lessons to your colleague olli rehn and to his colleague or his boss, mr barroso, because i think that this document is in total contradiction with the recommendations to the member states.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr creutzmann. in a globalised economy, intellectual property is an important factor in competitiveness. the protection of intellectual property rights must be at the source, where they occur, and that is why, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade under article 50, i am proud of an amendment which we consider important, concerning international collaboration, which has become an important element of the basis, not only in the technical cooperation which supports this report, but also in the operational, with the exchange of information and the arrival of agreements between states, customs and the industry itself. we therefore consider the contribution of the committee on international trade under article 50 to be very important.
mr president, last week the italian prime minister apologized to those citizens who had been forced to leave the country because of the economic crisis. spain is in the same situation, or worse, but our government is not taking action, it is downplaying this mass exodus of educated young people and it is also trying to normalise this serious phenomenon by using euphemisms such as 'adventure' or 'external mobility'. emigration increased by 21% last year in my country; thousands of young spaniards are emigrating in search of a future job that they cannot find in spain, where there is 55% youth unemployment. the generation that is leaving should be responsible for taking the reins of the country to face the exit from the crisis in which we are immersed and, with its departure, we are losing those who must build the future. this alarming situation joins the obstacles that young people are encountering to continue their education: cuts in education, rising university fees and the people's party's continued attack on public education. it is time to react once and for all and for the government to take measures and consider those which we socialists have proposed to curb youth unemployment, to stop the exodus from our country and to facilitate the return of those who wish to return as soon as possible.
mr president, the european parliament has just awarded the 'european citizen 2013' prize to the platform of mortgage affected persons. a prize that we proposed three members of this house because we believe that the platform recognizes the social commitment of thousands of people affected by eviction processes in the spanish state. a prize that has taught the spanish government a lesson in defending people and not banks as a priority. because we have to support thousands of homeless families in this parliament, and we have to support paid housing, as my colleague karima delli will be defending today in the report on social housing. this prize is awarded to those who fight for european values and few values are as closely linked to the acquis communautaire as solidarity, the protection of the most deprived or the defence of fundamental rights such as access to decent housing. i am very honoured to be a member of this house which recognises this social drama and any criticism of this award is a real waste of time.
mr president, i would like to use this minute to draw the attention of this parliament and the whole world to the right to life of a pregnant woman. the absolute ban on abortion in many latin american countries - and perhaps soon also in spain, if a regressive law of the popular party government to modify the current abortion law thrives - forces thousands of women to choose between their own lives or become criminals from the indignity of clandestine abortion, in addition, punished, for example, in el salvador with up to 50 years in prison. this is the dilemma facing beatriz, a salvadoran woman who was forced to give birth, at great risk to her life, to an unviable fetus, which had no brain, despite the fact that doctors and judicial authorities, including the oas, had recommended abortion. the decision about abortion should be a woman's decision. the ban on therapeutic abortion is a cruelty which should have been brought to the attention of this parliament in the debate on human rights violations. i think we should defend abortion and not tolerate speeches like the one we just heard, which is basically intolerant.
mr president, member states must, as a matter of urgency, improve the effectiveness of social spending and devise potential reforms of their social protection systems. budgetary discipline in the eurozone should be measured not only by fiscal and macroeconomic benchmarks but also by employment and social benchmarks. investment in youth employment must be a key component of national social investment strategies. we should specifically focus our efforts on those young people who are not in employment, education or training. the european youth guarantee is likely to become a key instrument in this respect. social investment should focus on public policies and human capital investment strategies which facilitate transition in changing labour markets and enable the acquisition of new skills for future job-rich sectors. it is also essential to allocate at least 25% of wage and policy funding to human capital and social investment through the european social fund. the esf should be regarded as our main instrument in fostering social investment. if we do not act fast and show young people and other vulnerable sectors of society that we care, we run the risk of becoming even more distrusted.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the consumer protection rules. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection adopted its report, practically unanimously, on 17 may 2013. i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs and all the technical teams who have contributed to the arrival here today of a document which will undoubtedly give greater prominence to european consumers and their associations in the period 2014-2020. the four main objectives are: first, to strengthen consumer safety; second, to raise consumer awareness; third, to increase compliance and ensure redress; and fourth, to adapt consumer rights and policies to changes in society and the economy. the promotion and protection of consumer rights are core values of the european union and must be easily and effectively exercised in basic sectors such as food, health, energy, financial and digital services, transport and telecommunications. the protection of personal data is also an essential condition for the protection of european consumers. good consumer information and education reduces the risks of dangerous or counterfeit products, speculative financial products and misleading advertising. consumer education should therefore be lifelong and start in school. the recent and still ongoing financial crisis has highlighted the urgent need to protect and inform consumers in the area of financial and banking services. consumers deserve more impartial advice and access to the information and tools necessary for fair and effective redress. the role of consumer associations must also be strengthened in all areas, and the necessary legal and economic measures must be taken. their collaboration with public institutions should be encouraged and a register of european associations should be set up. the agenda we are presenting is also in the final phase of the digital single market, which requires online consumer protection, legal certainty and guarantees of consumer rights. at the global level, european consumers are facing new challenges such as the globalisation of markets, financial deregulation, the digitalisation of the economy and an ageing population. the commission should therefore consider taking measures leading to the creation of a collective redress mechanism at union level and there is a growing need for reliable, comparable and accessible information for consumers. today, when inequalities are growing throughout the european union, the solidarity perspectives of the european social model are more necessary than ever. thus, mortgage contracts for the usual dwelling should be suspended when defaults occur due to causes beyond the control of the consumer, such as unemployment. these cases should be resolved through monthly payment moratoriums, installment payments and rental options. in the european union of the 21st century, nanotechnology and genetically modified organisms must be properly regulated and products containing them must be properly labelled. there is a need to provide better protection of the rights of vulnerable consumer groups such as children, the elderly or people with disabilities. the need to take legal action against unfair trading practices and contractual terms and to protect consumers who are trapped by a financial product must be stressed. finally, i would point out that the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 will have to make it possible for the european consumer agenda to benefit from sufficient funding to achieve the objectives set out.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr garcés on this report, which also comes at a very opportune time: a time when, for example, in the spanish state, there are thousands of people affected by the mortgage and by that lack of payment, and also hundreds of people affected by that financial product called 'preferentes y subordinadas'; a financial product which, as you well describe in your report, was used and abused by banking entities, which have been concerned with their own profit, but very little with the rights of consumers, because there are even children or elderly people who unfortunately would not read or write who have signed contracts for financial products and now cannot withdraw their money. so you will have the support of this humble member of parliament from galicia.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr garcés, on his excellent and comprehensive report, which is necessary and timely. the commission has set itself an ambitious agenda for the coming years, as european consumers face new challenges such as the globalisation of markets, financial deregulation and the digitalisation of the economy, among others. we must not stop, we must be ambitious and react quickly. i hope that the commission will present the measures announced in the agenda as soon as possible. because we know that in the 20 years since the creation of the single market, legislation on market development has gone faster than legislation on consumer protection, safety and empowerment. meanwhile, new challenges have emerged related to new technological advances, unsustainable consumption patterns or social exclusion. the consumer protection framework, especially for vulnerable consumers, needs to be strengthened.
mr president, we socialist members will vote in favour of the karima delli report because we think it is a timely response to a very serious problem - social housing - which has been aggravated by the crisis and property speculation, which has also thrown the working and middle classes into increasing difficulties: some to be able to get housing, so that they cannot devise a plan for their own lives, and others because they are being evicted from their homes, which destroys their lives and those of their families. we need a european policy which guides the member states to solve these problems, gives opportunities to those who are currently in difficulty and does not make it more difficult, with its competition policy, to reach all social sectors and in countries like my own, spain, where millions of people are threatened and hundreds of thousands have been thrown out of their homes, there should be new mortgage legislation which allows a process of renegotiation of the debt or the payment of the debt in payment, so that these people have a second chance. if companies have it, then bankrupt families must also have it, because they must be able to use the housing benefit to pay off their debts to the banks.
mr president, i will now change my language to speak the same language as my colleague karima delli. i welcome this report, which is so necessary at this time in europe, especially with the financial crisis, the housing crisis and the economic crisis we are going through and its many consequences for homeless families, homeless families, as she has just said. the commission is also pleased to see that the proposals are a response to the social tragedy that many families in spain are facing, to the situation of mortgages and to the eviction of people from their own homes. that is why i will vote for the rapporteur, karima delli, not just because she is from my group, but also on behalf of the many families who have just received the european citizen's award through the plataforma de afectados por la hipoteca (platform for victims of mortgage fraud).
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission shares the european parliament’s concerns on this prism scandal, and i shall inform vice-president reding of our discussion today. i must also state that ms reding will address the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) on 19 june, which means that she will not only discuss with the libe committee and refer to it the developments which take place until then but will also refer to the committee her negotiations and her meetings in dublin next friday. she will raise our shared concerns at the ministerial meeting next friday in dublin and will also request clarification from united states attorney-general holder. this was a good debate (even though it was short), and of course there were two trains of thought which are not contradictory to each other. one of them is that we should clarify things with the united states and make it clear that, whenever a european citizen’s information is concerned, european rules should apply, and that we are not happy with the level of protection of data information from the united states in particular. indeed, if you read the guardian, as mr moraes said, there is a reference by the whistleblower to the facility with which information could be accessed by the very person who leaked this information. referring to the us government, he said ‘the government had granted itself power it was not entitled to. there is no public oversight. the result is that people like myself have the latitude to go further than they are allowed’. so we are entitled to ask questions in the next ministerial summit on whether this has been done as regards european citizens. at the same time, i appreciate mr kirkhope’s remarks that we should not forget who the enemy is. as a former minister of the interior for 10 years, i would ask: what would the fight against organised crime and terrorism be without the collection of proper intelligence? yet the frustration (it should not be a frustration but it is considered to be so) of any law enforcement agency is that, while terrorists and organised crime have no rules to go by, law enforcement agencies, in a democratic country ruled by the rule of law, cannot use anything but the gloves of law in order to fight terrorism. this is why i appreciate the comments of those, including mr weber and others, who have said that we have a special relationship with our us partners and we have solved important investigations regarding the prevention of terrorism through shared information with our special partnership, but that no one should use this special relationship not to abide by the law and not to abide by international standards. this is the fine balancing act of retaining this partnership – but because there is a partnership, it entails not only rights but deeper obligations, because if the relationship is special then the obligations should be special as well, and no one should be taken for granted. i also appreciate ms in ’t veld’s comments on these issues, bearing in mind also what mr kirkhope said about who the real enemy is. i would also like to recall that, in the context of the proposal for a reform of data protection in europe (and i appreciate the positive comments that have been made by different members as to the importance of adopting this new package proposed by ms reding), the commission has made it clear that the extra-territorial application of laws by third countries may be in breach of international law, and the reform establishes the legal channels that should be used. the commission is ready to consider any improvements the european parliament would consider necessary in this respect. that is why we need to work together for a swift adoption of the package, which some in the member states would like to see delayed. it is in our common interest to work hand in hand in that direction, all the more so in view of these recent developments.
the next item is the debate on the report by emer costello, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the fund for european aid to the most deprived (com (2012) 0617 - c7-0358/2012 - 2012/0295 (cod)) (a7-0183/2013).
the question of the 'blue card'. mr president, my question is very simple: i do not know whether the honourable member has read the report or the commission document when he talks again about agricultural surpluses, because now, following a judgment by the european courts, we are not talking about agricultural policy but about social policy, and in addition to social policy, which the european institutions have to do because it produces added value. but i have one more question: i do not know whether you understand the meaning of the word 'voluntary' - which is not subsidiarity of the states, since it simply means that this fund, which must be a finalist - because it means solidarity of those who have the most with the poor of europe, who are of all, mr president - is devoted by the member states, under the pretext of voluntary action, to programmes which are not aimed at poverty. don't be fooled by the word volunteerism... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. - mr stoyanov, if you come now to ask a question on the 'blue card', i will not give you the floor when it is your turn to speak, because we are in a very bad time. you can choose to ask the question or to intervene on your turn.
you are right, mr stoyanov: the rules of procedure state that the president decides whether or not to give the floor to a 'blue card' question. and i don't give you the floor to ask a "blue card" question.
mr president, first of all i would like to say to mrs emer costello that she will have the full support of the socialist group, that we are with her in her analysis and in her proposals, because the situation is dramatic at this time of crisis. in my country, three million people cannot even eat properly every day, and in europe the goal of reducing poverty is getting further and further away. that is why it is a key moment and a very important moment for parliament to give a strong signal with this fund. and we must tell the council that the solidarity which the founding fathers of europe called for must also be present in the council. the council cannot stop thinking about europe and allow its members to continue thinking about their own countries; they must think about all of us europeans. and as regards the issue of discretion, the truth, ladies and gentlemen, mrs cornelissen, is that the argument of voluntary action conceals the fact that some countries do not want to spend the money that belongs to the poorest on the poorest, but on other policies; that behind this there is a question about the existence of a european fund, because they do not want there to be a european fund; and they do not realise that, although some countries will probably have no problems with voluntary action, other countries will resort to it in order to devote nothing to the poorest. it is vital, urgent, important, as the european federation of food banks has asked, that we maintain the levels, not of what the council says, but of what the commission says: eur 3.5 billion - which is very little compared to the 700 billion that has been spent on bank aid - to feed those who cannot eat and to make the fund available to all the poor in europe without exception, without some countries being able to spend it on whatever they want as long as there are poor people who do not eat in that country.
mr president, first of all, it should be remembered that the european fund for aid to the most deprived is intended to help people who need food aid and basic material assistance to survive, replacing the food distribution programme. i therefore believe that when it comes to whether this fund should be compulsory or voluntary, the final character of the aid must be guaranteed and the fund should be used only for the purposes for which it was set up, so it must be compulsory. secondly, it is essential that the fund should maintain at least the same budget as the aid programme had during the previous period. the 3.5 billion is not enough in these times of crisis when food banks and social entities serve many more people than before. but the proposal to reduce the fund's budget by eur 1 billion is unacceptable. thirdly, cofinancing is essential. this is another problem that will have to be faced by the countries with the greatest economic difficulties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources available for the programme are used to the full. finally, i would stress that it is essential to ensure the continuity of assistance from 1 january 2014, the date on which the current programme ends. ensuring this continuity must be paramount to us.
i shall give the floor to mr gutiérrez for a minute and a half because i forgot to remind him that if he were to put a 'blue card' question he would not be able to speak on his own time and also because mr stoyanov has rightly reminded us that the fact of authorising a 'blue card' question does not mean that the person who is asking the question is to be withdrawn from speaking on the turn of speakers. but from now on, we will not give the floor to anyone who is registered for the speakers' shift to ask a question for a 'blue card'.
mr president, what we have been experiencing in this debate over the years has no name, no justification: that this parliament has had to make an effort over the last two years, first, to prevent the fund from disappearing - it is true that it is allied with the commission on this occasion - then, to maintain, by fighting, a sufficient amount at a time when poverty is increasing and our response to poverty is to reduce the funds precisely intended to fight it; and, thirdly, to try to avoid some loopholes in the regulations which allow some member states, precisely those which vetoed the fund, to allocate or want to allocate european funds, of all europeans, to programmes which have nothing to do with the fight against poverty. it is a shame what we have been through in this debate! and the fact that this parliament has had to adopt a position of strength indicates, once again, the moment of confusion that the european institutions as a whole are experiencing. i am deeply sorry that there is no one in the council today to listen to this debate, to listen to what the people are asking, what the representatives of the people are asking, what this parliament is asking. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest people in the community. first, they devise an economic strategy which, through cuts and austerity, pushes millions of citizens into poverty and, when the citizens are in poverty, they are forgotten. it is a political embarrassment which this parliament cannot allow: neither insufficient funds, nor - as i say - gaps in legislation with the word 'voluntary'. we must defend a strong european programme, but a european programme, which shows once again that the poor belong to everyone and not to their member states.
mr president, yes, i too am asking for more than 3.5 billion euros for the fund, and on a compulsory basis. the europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce the number of poor by 20 million - let's get to it. i worry about the most vulnerable - children, the elderly - and winter. warning: danger is coming! and i'm more concerned about the emergency situation than the emergency situation, and we are now in an emergency situation. mr president, i am concerned about the lack of sensitivity of certain member states. this is a fund for individuals, not a fund for states. the programme for aid to the most deprived urges us to adopt this regulation. it is a question of ensuring the daily livelihood of millions of europeans. we will not turn our backs on poverty.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank everyone who contributed to this extremely rich exchange of views, and particularly the rapporteur for the work she has done in the recent period. i am glad that the support of this house for maintaining the fead instrument remains unequivocal. there is also a strong and visible support for increasing the proposed envelope and that is why also there are relevant questions about the link between this particular fund for the most deprived and other funds like, for example, the european social fund. i would like everyone to pay equal attention, for example, to the minimum share of the european social fund, because there is a likelihood that an increase in the sum – in the total volume of the fead instrument – could result in a reduction in other priorities which are supposed to be funded from the european social fund in the area of employment and social inclusion. so it is even more important to take this seriously. also to clarify for ms lambert, if funds were not used they would go back to the general budget according to the commission proposal, and this is a very important detail. however, if there is an increase, it would be budget neutral for the member states, at least on the side of the contribution. i think this is also a very important point, because we heard some concerns from uk and dutch members of the house. we know these two countries played a significant role in cutting the total budget, which also revealed their approach to solidarity in the european union. however, i think the large majority agrees that the fight against poverty has to be taken very seriously in the european union. indeed, as ms bastos also reminded us, in the europe 2020 strategy there is an explicit target to reduce the number of those living in poverty or social exclusion. it is also recognised that food aid is not the only form of supporting those who are most deprived. yesterday in this house we had an excellent debate on the commission’s social investment package, which aims at helping the member states to modernise their welfare states in order to maintain an effective social safety net. all this is very important, together with the eu support that can be provided for these efforts, while we also recognise the diversity of various welfare models in the eu. so in different countries, different measures have to be taken to ensure that there are no holes in the social safety net. but i think in all member states the most important starting point for any discussion is to ensure that there are economic policies in place that bring back economic growth to all member states and their regions. the proposals which ms delli pointed to about minimum income legislation merit consideration. as you know, the commission last year called on the member states to introduce minimum wages. this is part of the dialogue between the commission and the member states. also, where there are minimum income schemes either in function or under consideration, the commission provides support – not least in the social investment package – by proposing reference budgets to help calculate and put in practice such minimum income regimes. i understand that the voluntary or mandatory nature of the use of the fund is less consensual. in the house i stated my position in favour of our proposal, both on political and technical grounds. it should be clear that, if it is mandatory, there is clearly more incentive for the member states to use this fund and help the most deprived. i now look forward to the vote and to your final decision on this matter. it is critical that we can now start opening the discussion with the council, as the clock is ticking and we need to conclude our discussions if we want the fund to be operational from 1 january 2014.
i would like to welcome the members of a delegation from the central american parliament, the 'parlacen', who are in the official gallery. this delegation, chaired by leonel bucaro, president of parlacen and co-chairman of the eurolat assembly, is visiting our european parliament this week. on behalf of all of us, of course, i wish you a fruitful visit. i also want to greet with great emotion a group of visitors from toledo, the capital of castilla-la mancha, my region, who belong to an association bearing the glorious name of julián besteiro, who was a professor of ethics and president of the spanish congress of deputies in the second republic and who died of sepsis in the prisons of the franco dictatorship.
we are now back to the debate on the emer costello report (a7-0183/2013) (start of debate: see point 6).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 12 june, at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to remedy the shortcomings in the regulation and implementation of longterm cod exploitation. the report welcomes the commission's proposal, but criticises the absence of the sector's actors in decision-making for three years. a long-term fishing exploitation plan which excludes the main players is not the appropriate way to ensure rational exploitation in the sector, since this can only be achieved with the cooperation of the main players. this report seeks to amend the commission proposal in such a way as to restore cod stocks in european waters while allowing fishermen to maintain their activity and thus their income. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. as this regulation is one of the first acts in the fisheries sector to be aligned to the tfeu, it is of particular importance to find legally well-founded solutions safeguarding parliament’s rights created by the treaty of lisbon. also, solutions adopted for this regulation may have an influence on the decision-making procedure that will be applicable to other multi-annual plans. i therefore support the position of the rapporteur, who globally agrees with the commission’s proposal.
in writing. − in favour. kurski is accused of commiting a traffic offence. it is proposed that his immunity be waived.
in writing. − in favour. ms handzlik stands accused of having asked the european parliament to reimburse the cost of attending a language course on the basis of the relevant provisions although she did not attend said course. the circumstances of the case against ms handzlik have led to serious doubts as to the procedure. this was considered as a case where the existence of a fumus persecutionis may be assumed. it was therefore decided not to waive her immunity.
in writing. − in favour. mr alvaro, as the driver of a vehicle, was involved in a serious road traffic accident resulting in the death of one person and serious injuries sustained by three further people, including mr alvaro himself. mr alvaro wishes the investigations to be carried out as quickly as possible. therefore, his immunity should be waived.
in writing. - i voted against this report, despite the positive aspects it introduces in the protection of consumer rights, because of the aspects relating to competitiveness and the 2020 strategy. the report deals with the european consumer agenda 2014-2020 and at first does so in a very critical manner and emphasising the need to put the consumer at the centre of the common market. the report calls for closer collaboration with the private sector and supports the main objective of aligning with the europe 2020 strategy. in the process the majority of parliament has dropped all references to 'social europe' and introduced 'social market economy based on competitiveness', giving it a strong neoliberal feel. i have decided to vote against this report because of all these changes.
in writing. − in favour. the european commission published the draft ‘european consumer agenda’ on 22 may 2012 in line with the eu consumer policy strategy 2007-2013 (com (2007) 99 final). it includes a set of initiatives for consumers for the period from 2014 to 2020. we welcome this ambitious approach and urge the commission to also draw up a green paper for european consumers that would be useful for consumer protection organisations, citizens, parliaments and national governments. ensuring food safety, health, energy and financial and digital products should have top priority in the european consumer agenda. this agenda also comes during the final phase of the digital single market which requires the protection of consumers online, legal certainty, consumer rights guarantees and efficient and reliable delivery services for the transport of goods and services. there is a need for a consumer agenda that reduces inequalities among consumers in europe and contributes to a low carbon economy.
in writing. - commission on the implementation of directive 2003/08/ec but focuses on criticism of the lack of information to citizens. the report focuses mainly on aspects which help to facilitate the use of the directive by citizens, since the increased mobility of citizens within the european union makes instruments to guarantee their rights increasingly necessary. the report encourages member states to implement measures to ensure both legal aid and alternative measures to enable the defence of citizens' rights in civil contracts in member states other than their own. this defence of citizens' rights must be the basis of the union, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. council directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 to improve access to justice in crossborder disputes by establishing minimum common rules relating to legal aid for such disputes is a very important piece of legislation for european citizens, as it aims to ensure that less well-off members of society also have access to justice in other member states, for example when exercising their right to free movement or benefiting from the internal market. the directive has been applied since 2004. in 2012, the commission submitted the first report assessing the application of the directive. we welcome the commission’s report, and note with satisfaction that the commission has found that all member states are, globally, applying the directive successfully. the commission notes that some member states may not be applying individual provisions to the full; if that is the case, the commission should use its treaty powers to ensure that eu law is applied.
in writing. − no vote. after several months of trialogue negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission, an agreement has been found between the institutions. the text agreed improves the parliament’s first reading version at least on parallel trade (the regulation will not apply to goods that have been manufactured with the consent of the right-holder) and on goods in transit (the reversed burden of proof is deleted). on these points the council’s position was better than parliament’s. on the other hand, our criticisms remain on other aspects, in particular the scope of the regulation which remains much too wide, and the definition of small consignments which remains based on the size and the amount of items.
in writing. − second reading, no vote. following the adoption of parliament’s first reading position by the plenary on 14 june 2012, informal negotiations started with the cyprus presidency with a view to reaching an early second reading agreement. after three rounds of trialogue, parliament’s and council’s negotiating team reached agreement on the file on 14 november 2012. the text of the agreement was presented to the envi committee for a vote of approval on 18 december 2012, and approved by an overwhelming majority. on the basis of the committee’s approval, the chairman of the committee undertook in his letter of the same day to the chair of coreper to recommend to the plenary to approve council’s position at first reading without amendment. following legal-linguistic verification, the council adopted its first reading position confirming the agreement on 22 april 2013.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it reduces the protection of workers against the harmful effects that electromagnetic fields can have on their health. the report addresses the issue by setting upper limits for indicators on such fields, but only sets out action on the risks of short-term emissions. there is insufficient scientific evidence on the long-term effects of lower emissions, but the report does not call for eu research on this issue to determine accurately what these effects are and what risks workers are exposed to in the long term. the report also includes the exception for specialised medical equipment which poses a significant risk to health workers who are left unprotected from health risks. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the report recognises the need for stricter limits on exposure levels to electromagnetic fields. in addition, the recommendations of the international commission on non-ionizing radiation will help decisively to reduce risks at the workplace. in addition, employers will assess and reduce the risks of exposure to electromagnetic fields. the institutions, for their part, undertake to make further progress in research on this issue, with the aim of proposing, if necessary, additional measures to ensure the safety of workers. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − in favour. the commission and the member states should increase research and the collection of data on the long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields. as soon as there is conclusive scientific evidence on exposure to electromagnetic fields, the commission will present a new proposal to address the long-term effects of such exposure by taking into account the acquired knowledge, in accordance with article 17 of directive 89/391.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to remedy the shortcomings of regulation and implementation in the exploitation of cod stocks in the long term. the report welcomes the commission's proposal but criticises the exclusion of the sector's decision-makers for three years. a long-term fishing exploitation plan which excludes the main players is not the appropriate way to ensure rational exploitation in the sector, since this can only be achieved with the cooperation of the main players. this report seeks to amend the commission proposal so that it seeks to rebuild cod stocks in european waters while allowing fishermen to maintain their activity and thus their income. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. fishing is an important source of growth and development for the economies of european coastal areas. it is therefore necessary to make this development sustainable, otherwise entire regions will be in great danger. the proposal for a regulation tabled today helps to avoid the scourge of depopulation of fish species off our coasts, in particular by allowing a more precise calculation of fishing efforts, by standardising the calculation methods between the different member states. the proposal also approaches this sensitive subject methodically, but without offending the sensitivity and knowledge of the various actors in the area, in particular by introducing case-by-case measures rather than automatic reductions of 25% of the tacs. case-by-case measures are all the more relevant as they are based on available scientific advice. as a member of parliament from a fishing-rich region which bases part of its development on fishing, i know how important this issue is and that is why i support this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. − against. the reason to ask two separate votes and still vote against everything was to allow people the chance to vote against the ams to art 9 and 12, which are the very same ams that the csl adopted in december 2012 as an (in ep eyes anyway) illegal act.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains positive aspects in the fight against organised crime, it does not represent a real advance in the fight against corruption and tax evasion. the report also calls for the introduction of a european banking system, which would be more transparent and more transparent. however, all the measures set out in the report are progress but cannot be a real check if it is not integrated into civil society. it also fails to promote transparency sufficiently, which is necessary to destroy the basis of corruption and tax evasion in the european institutional framework. the report also gives olaf a key role at a time when the barrosogate scandal is coming to light, resulting in interference with national judicial systems. that is why i did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − abstention. the mid-term report reveals that the crim committee is increasingly taking the role in a policy formulation process regarding the future of eu police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in a way that important aspects from competent committees i.e. procedural rights of suspects (i.e. draft directive on access to a lawyer, elena antonescu, epp, ro, rapporteur on which provisional agreement was reached at the end of may) and data protection (dimitrios droutsas, s&d rapporteur on the draft directive and jan albrecht, greens, rapporteur on the draft regulation) are being excluded, or addressed in a restricted and therefore incomplete way. the exact mandate of crim remains unclear. even so the mid term report features a paragraph which asks for to be crim from turning into a permanent sub-committee on organised crime.
madam president, i have supported this report because i agree that public spending on social housing should be considered an investment as it focuses on the satisfaction of a fundamental right, is labour intensive and stimulates innovation in issues such as energy saving and efficiency. the rehabilitation of these areas must be a tool of social housing policy through which the middle classes, particularly those affected by the crisis, and urban areas threatened with degradation can be integrated. a strong supply with common definitions throughout europe also favours mobility, the circulation of talent and a consequent reactivation of the labour market and internal consumption, which are the returns required from what we call social investment. i also agree that there must be european guarantees, such as those which have been produced by the first anti-vacuum judgments in spain, to prohibit the abusive practices of banking institutions, which owe citizens plus corporate social responsibility in compensation for the public aid they receive. finally, i welcome the recognition and commitment contained in this report to the contribution of local and regional institutions in an area such as housing, which must be another hallmark of our european social model.
madam president, i would ask you to read with particular attention the section of this report which calls for renewal of the mortgage laws to make them fairer and to solve the problem of evictions in some member states, especially in spain. with the money of the europeans we have given more than 40 000 million euros for the financial rescue of the spanish banking system, while the banks have been unable to give a second chance to families who were in economic difficulties, and have continued to evict. european money is being used to bail out spanish banks and spanish banks are not able to give those families a second chance. in the meantime, we are already being warned that in spain we will probably need even more money to plug that hole in the financial system and that a new effort will therefore be necessary. what we are asking is that we try to avoid that - that we try to avoid that there is money for spanish banks and there is no money to give second chances to families - and that, therefore, european money is used to restructure the debt of families. not one more euro for the spanish banks without ensuring that this money does not flow into the real economy, which is the one with names and surnames, which is the one of the citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a report in support of social housing in europe. izquierda unida is fighting in the streets and at all institutional levels where it has representation to guarantee the effectiveness of the right to housing in spain. this report, which is an impulse to social housing to guarantee this right in the european union, includes positive aspects, although insufficient, to solve the housing problem that thousands of spaniards are suffering. the report is an important step towards ensuring the social function of housing and putting pressure on the spanish government to take effective measures to solve the housing problem in the country and to put an end to the speculative use of housing as a commodity. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted yes. the people's party uses europe when and how it sees fit. the court of justice of the eu has already ruled against the abusive clauses of the spanish mortgage law, and the european parliament has awarded the european citizen 2013 prize to pah and today has ruled in favour of a social and fair housing policy. now it is spain that does not want to listen to europe or the citizens. it is unacceptable that, in the reform of the mortgage law, the pp has ignored the pnl and the citizen demonstrations in favour of the payment of the tax. the delli report calls on the member states to prevent evicted families from having to continue paying back their mortgages, and measures such as the payment in kind are key to ending the abuse of families by banks. it also calls for adjustment of fiscal policy to limit housing speculation and greater coordination of regional and state housing policies. the creation of a european housing strategy is now necessary to guarantee all citizens their right to decent housing.
in writing. - i have enthusiastically supported this report because it contains basic proposals to change the fortunes and statistics of women's labour mobility, which is highly concentrated in the sectors of activity that are most feminized such as domestic work or the health sector or that are worst affected by phenomena such as human trafficking. one of the problems of gender inequality is strictly economic and productive. historically, women's talents have been underutilized because they have much more difficulty accessing the jobs or positions of responsibility in which they can be most effective. the european economy would be better off if, as all available studies show, it made better use of the skills of half its population
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it develops a resolution which insists that the member states must guarantee the occupational mobility of women in the current crisis. the crisis and the austerity policy being implemented in the european union have a drastic effect on women who are trapped in the role of caregiver that society imposes on them. it is essential to offer an alternative and to hold states accountable for their existence. the report specifically focuses on the need for member states to report on gender when implementing national reform programmes. thus countries will have to justify what alternatives they should offer to women when they are cutting educational, social and health policies that end up falling back on the domestic space and especially on women. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − occupational mobility is one of the strategic objectives of the european union, as it not only improves the effectiveness of the single market but also promotes the improvement of professional skills. however, gender gaps still exist with regard to labour mobility in the european union. we in the european parliament must fight to ensure that gender does not become a burden and a disadvantage for professional mobility. it is worrying that there are still gender differences in job transfer (44% for men versus 27% for women) or that women are at greater risk of social exclusion when moving to another country. the report is an important step towards reversing this situation, as it emphasises the situation of women and foresees that by encouraging mobility, not only in employment but also in education, women will be able to break this negative logic. it also urges member states to include measures to improve equality in occupational mobility when developing their national reform programmes. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. at a time when ever fewer young people are managing to enter the labour market we have to face the new challenges and take advantage of the opportunities offered by society. it is vital that an ever increasing number of people achieve as high a level of education as possible; this is particularly important for women who leave the labour force temporarily, for maternity reasons or to look after their families, and for whom a high level of education is essential to enable them to return promptly to the labour market. the first objective of the europe 2020 strategy is to raise to 75 % the employment rate for women and men aged 20-64, also through greater participation of young people, older workers and low-skilled workers. more and better education means higher employment rates, and increased education levels, over time, help to increase the employment rates of women, which has a positive direct impact on gdp. broader, more positive effects on growth can be achieved only by boosting and facilitating investment in human capital and female productivity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of quotas (second part of paragraph 23 (vn)) but i would like to vote in favour of them again, stressing that they must in any case be accompanied by genuine support for the conciliation measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces common principles for the operation of all the european union's tolls for light vehicles. the report calls for the european teletoll service (ets) to be given a boost, which has so far not been effectively implemented because some market players believe it cannot generate profits for them. the proposal contained in this report introduces the polluter pays principle in the sector, using certain ecological criteria to establish the amounts to be paid by drivers for the use of infrastructure. the report sets out principles for building a more homogeneous market, which will allow the sector to be integrated. that is why i voted in favour of all this.
in writing. − in favour. the most important questions we brought in were adequately addressed: freedom of choice of eets system (video, satellite, vignette etc) makes ‘technology neutrality’ essential (each technical solution follows specific transport policy aims, the cheapest solution is not automatically the best); also: regional approaches rather than one single eu eets • ensure interoperability between different national or regional toll systems • further integration of ‘polluter pays’ principle: internalisation of external costs • personal data protection • liability of eets provider for possible mistakes in on-board-eets-units • adequate enforcement is essential rather than calling for more legislation • stakeholder involvement in determination and introduction of eets service.
in writing. − national toll systems must not have any discriminatory impact or impede free movement. the eu must promote crossborder movement of people and goods, responding to the needs of transport companies and smes and promoting competitiveness. the problems in cross-border areas such as galicia-northern portugal have caused unrest and numerous complaints. the market for electronic road infrastructure payments needs measures for its proper implementation as the demand-based approach has not yielded the expected results. the failure to implement directive 2004/52/ec on the european teletoll system (ets) means that a regulation is now needed to make an interoperable system a reality and to develop it across the eu. the sale of so-called 'stickers' should be substantially simplified and online and telephone payment systems with a real rate per kilometre travelled introduced. signage and information to the user on the cost of tolls, fines and other penalties is also needed. i therefore support the higgins report.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president-in-office of the council, dear commissioner cecilia malmström, i am glad that tomorrow we will finally be adopting my report on reception conditions, as well as the others on this first asylum package. i am glad that it has been many years of work by my team, the secretariat of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the human rights organisations, especially the unhcr, as well as by many people involved in the commission and in the council - such as commissioner malmström, with her tenacity, and commissioner barrot in the past. but i am particularly pleased because i believe that with this directive the european parliament is removing the backbone of the return directive, also known as the shame directive. that dark page of this parliament will be overcome - i hope - with the help of my report. europe should not be seen as the policeman who expels immigrants. europe is above all a land of asylum, which defends those who defend freedom, those who are persecuted for defending it, and which ensures that asylum seekers are treated with dignity while their cases are being dealt with. this parliament has worked hard for two legislatures to improve european asylum legislation. in the last parliamentary term we visited the main reception centres throughout europe. we have seen dramatic situations: some inevitable, because of the tragedies that occur every day beyond our borders; others avoidable - i hope - thanks to this new package to improve the reception conditions for people seeking asylum. we are going to destroy with this legislation the cruel and inhuman automatic which leads the asylum seeker from persecution in his homeland to flee to europe - so often synonymous with freedom - only to end up crossing the european border in prison. asylum seekers can now only be detained on six assessed grounds. this directive is also designed to avoid situations of deprivation of protection which condemn claimants to destitution. moreover, if europe wants to keep up with the most diverse and dynamic country in the world - the united states - it must allow asylum seekers to work and earn a living for themselves as soon as possible. i believe that we must help those in need, but we must also allow them to become self-sufficient as soon as possible. i know that among the asylum seekers there are many highly qualified people who could earn a living without any additional cost to the coffers of our states. that is what is happening in the united states and that is what will happen here because the economic storm will pass and we will again be talking about our labour needs, manual and intellectual, even if it is temporary. in short, i would like this report to be my small contribution to the european parliament in respecting human dignity, whatever its origin in europe. yes to the directive on humanity, on dignity, no to the directive on shame!
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am very pleased to be here today, representing the irish presidency of the council, to mark this important stage in the completion of the second phase of the common european asylum system. this project, as many of you will know, has been an important goal of the irish presidency of the council, and i am very pleased that we have been able to play our role in reaching some of the final compromises necessary for agreement on the procedures directive and the eurodac regulation. i wish to acknowledge particularly the role played by previous council presidencies, most recently and notably the presidencies of cyprus, denmark and poland, in the legislative process, which is now in its final stage. indeed, since the first half of 2009 the legislative package on asylum has absorbed the energies of no fewer than nine council presidencies, all of whom have worked with the co-legislator and the european commission to forge the agreements, the final elements of which are now being put in place. we are in the final stage of concluding a project initiated in june 2008 with the publication by the european commission of its policy plan on asylum in which it announced its intention to build on the existing legal framework in the field of asylum. the initiative of the commission was quickly taken up by the european council, adopting in october 2008 the european pact on immigration and asylum in which the european council stated that the time had come to take new initiatives to complete the establishment of the common european asylum system and thus to offer a higher degree of protection. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in december 2009 modified the legal framework for asylum policy and provided for a uniform status of asylum, a uniform status of subsidiary protection and common procedures for granting and withdrawing the two forms of international protection. it is to be welcomed that the legislative instruments for the second phase of the common european asylum system have been based on the new treaty provisions, thus ensuring compliance with the principle of non-refoulement and the 1951 geneva convention on the status of refugees and its 1967 protocol. in adopting the stockholm programme in december 2009, the european council renewed its commitment to the establishment of a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those granted international protection. the european council also stated that, while the common european asylum system should be based on high protection standards, due regard should also be given to a fair and effective procedure capable of preventing abuse. it is fair to say that the overall compromises developed during the legislative process have been informed by the strategic guidelines laid down by the european council in the stockholm programme. in this regard i would like to acknowledge the creative contributions of all those in the council, the european parliament and the commission, which have allowed the negotiations to be brought to this successful conclusion. these new instruments provide for a number of important improvements: the new legislative framework further harmonises national asylum systems, the common standards are more protective and fully in line with the evolving case law of the court of justice and the european court of human rights, and the new rules will enable member states to operate efficient asylum systems capable of tackling abuse. this second phase of the common european asylum system has seen the establishment of the european asylum support office. the office, in malta, which is now fully operational, is an important element in the development and implementation of the common european asylum system and is contributing to the strengthening of all forms of practical cooperation between the member states. the dublin system remains a cornerstone in building the common european asylum system, as it clearly allocates responsibility for the examination of asylum applications. it is fair to say that the importance of the dublin system was reflected in the intensive and creative negotiations which have taken place since the legislative proposal of the commission was presented in december 2008. one of the innovative elements arising from the negotiations was the inclusion in the dublin regulation of a mechanism for early warning, preparedness and crisis management. the mechanism allows for an active and early response to situations where the asylum system of a member state is subject to particular pressure or has problems in its functioning. it provides for structured and escalating actions in order to address any deficiencies and problems before the situation becomes a fully-fledged crisis. this provision is an important element in laying strong foundations for the mutual trust built upon member states’ individual responsibility for adhering to their eu and international obligations in law and in practice. responsibility and mutual trust are the pillars on which the common framework on genuine and practical solidarity in the field of asylum should be built. in this regard, it is important to note that solidarity and responsibility go hand-in-hand. each member state should ensure that it has in place a well-functioning and robust asylum system to enable it to cope with migratory fluctuations and to allow it to receive solidarity measures. an essential element to a credible and sustainable common european asylum system is that member states build and maintain sufficient capacity in the national asylum systems. following the guidance of the european council, the member states are urged to support each other in building this capacity. the european asylum support office has an important role in coordinating this endeavour. i would like, in concluding, to express my particular thanks to your rapporteurs, who have worked so hard to make these agreements possible and who have already spoken so eloquently: sylvie guillaume for the asylum procedures directive; monica macovei for the eurodac regulation; cecilia wikström for the ‘dublin’ regulation and antonio masip hidalgo for the reception conditions directive. we should, of course, not forget the contribution made by jean lambert who, as the rapporteur for the qualification directive, contributed to our reaching an agreement in 2011, and give more general thanks to commissioner cecilia malmström for her assistance in helping and guiding the brokering of some of the vital compromises which have made these agreements possible. in conclusion, as president of the council, i very much look forward to following the debate, which represents such an important milestone in the establishment of the common european asylum system.
member of the commission. − mr president, the second phase of the common european asylum system has been several years in the making. i am very happy to be here with you today to speak the day before it is hopefully adopted by a large majority in this plenary. fifteen years ago, the eu had no common rules on asylum. basic minimum standards have since been adopted, and today we are to make a decisive step towards a true common system. this is, in many ways, a historic achievement. these negotiations, as you all know, have been tough. they have been long and very difficult, but thanks to the great work done by you, the rapporteurs, i am delighted to say that we achieved the results which will make a difference. it shows how much difference the european parliament can make. i would like to thank all of you present: antonio masip higaldo, cecilia wikström, sylvie guillaume, monica macovei, jean lambert, and all the shadow rapporteurs and all the others involved, especially in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, for your hard work, your support and your dedication on this. i would also, of course, like to thank the irish presidency. there were many presidencies before you, but it was the irish presidency which managed to conclude on the final, very difficult, but very important, issues. let me mention some of the improvements that the new asylum package will make. thanks to the new asylum procedures directive, asylum procedures will be quicker, more efficient and fairer to asylum seekers. all asylum seekers will receive early assistance in the procedure to minimise errors and reduce hardship due to long procedures. there will be a general deadline of six months for normal asylum procedures. asylum seekers will no longer have to wait years for a decision. this will, of course, reduce human suffering, and also save money because people will not depend on financial and social assistance. the new rules in the asylum procedures and reception conditions directives mean that asylum seekers with special needs will be quickly identified. they will receive the necessary support to explain their claim, and adequate reception conditions. there will be greater protection for unaccompanied minors and victims of torture. in the new reception conditions directive there are rules ensuring that detention of asylum seekers will be applied only as an exception, on six limited grounds. this is a huge improvement compared to the current rules. all the necessary guarantees need to be available, including free legal assistance. the conditions in detention centres need to be adequate, especially for vulnerable people. in addition, the new reception conditions directive will provide for quicker access for asylum seekers to the labour market. that way, if exceptionally they have to wait for more than nine months for a decision, they will be able to support themselves instead of relying on state help. this will also, in the case of a positive decision, speed up the integration process. the new dublin regulation will give asylum seekers more rights and protection in the procedure for determining the responsible member states. this procedure will also be more efficient and clearer, avoiding conflicts of competence between member states. in parallel to the commission’s infringement powers, there will be a mechanism to detect early problems in national asylum or reception systems, and to address the root causes before these problems develop. it will be equipped with solidarity measures for those whose problems stem from a particular pressure. this is an achievement of the new dublin regulation. i also want to mention the court judgement from last week, to which mrs wikström made reference. the commission and i attach great importance to that. the ruling confirmed that our views on the interpretation of the current dublin regulation were correct. the court confirmed that the unnecessary transfer of children between member states should be avoided. with a view to ensuring the child’s best interests, the application must be examined in the state where the child is present. the commission is ready to live up to its commitment under the joint declaration in which we undertook to allow a quick adoption for the recast regulation and we will consider revising article 8(4). if we make a proposal, the european parliament and the council will thereafter be called upon to exercise their legislative competences on the matter. in any case, the ruling of the court of justice is to be taken into account by all member states in the implementation of the asylum rules, as it has already become part of the eu acquis. the qualification directive has already been adopted, but we should mention it again. it clarifies the grounds for granting international protection and therefore will make asylum decisions more robust. it will also improve access to rights and integration measures for beneficiaries of international protection. finally, in the package we have the revised eurodac regulation. this will allow law enforcement access to the eu database of the fingerprints of asylum seekers, under strictly limited circumstances, in order to prevent, detect or investigate the most serious crimes, such as murder and terrorism. the commission was made aware in the last couple of days of a new proposed change to the variable geometry recitals in the eurodac regulation. the council’s legal service argued they should be deleted. the commission proposal put forward the recitals. we considered them helpful to clarify the legal clarity of application of the new acquis. in view of all the efforts that have been made to finalise this file and in order not to prevent the adoption, we can accept the deletion of those recitals. however, we strongly urge that such deletion be accompanied by a statement clarifying the participation of the associated countries in the recast regulation. this is the minimum necessary for clarity and transparency with the associated countries. during the adoption of eurodac, the commission offered to undertake two tasks that i am happy to confirm today. firstly, following consultation with member states and parliament, the commission intends to publish in due course an indicative, non-binding model – a eurodac law enforcement request form – to be sent by the designated authorities to the verifying authorities, which reflects the criteria set out in article 20(1). secondly, article 40(5) of the recast eurodac regulation calls on the commission to make evaluations of the eurodac regulation at fixed intervals. these evaluations will include consideration of the storage period specified in article 16 for ‘category 2’ data on persons apprehended irregularly crossing a border; and of the period of time in article 18 that the data on beneficiaries of international protection should be made available for law enforcement purposes. this is indeed an important day. the asylum package has been, for me personally, a priority during this mandate. i know it has for many of you as well. a year ago i would have been hesitant in confirming that we would have an agreement before the summer, but today we are there, and i am very happy that it is on the verge of completion and i hope for a strong positive vote tomorrow in the plenary.
mr president, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i join in the congratulations of the rapporteurs who have distinguished themselves in the conduct of these files which form part of the asylum package, and those who celebrate the result, which is not perfect but represents a step forward: first, because of its content; and secondly, because it closes a first circle of a chapter in the history of the european union, from the treaty of amsterdam in 1999 to the conversion of the area of freedom, security and justice into a european policy subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, which this european parliament as legislator understands, with the construction of a common european asylum system, characterized by the principles of protection of human dignity and reinforcing legal assistance, the rights of minors and the most vulnerable persons in reception, in the conditions of detention, in the regulation and procedures and, above all, in its legal guarantees. and it is very good for european citizens to know that this european parliament, which has spent so much time over the last four years talking about the governance of the euro and talking about the financial aspects of the crisis and banking supervision, is not only concerned, in addition to that, with the labelling of yoghurts, but also with the fundamental rights of people and, in particular, the most vulnerable people who knock on the door of the european union and want to know that the european union is not a wall of incomprehension and selfishness, but also this representation of european citizens who want to be faithful to the european social model and be a reference of reliability and submission to the rule of law.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr masip and mrs wikström, mr macovei and mr guillaume. today we are taking a big step towards the area of freedom, security and justice, a big step towards a common european asylum system and towards the defence of the civil rights of those seeking protection. we cannot allow discriminatory or unequal treatment in asylum procedures, nor can we allow criminal networks to exploit possible weaknesses in our legislation. the measures we are discussing today are very important and balanced, but they are incomplete. actions relating to children, early warning, access to fingerprint databases, the approximation of rules or procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection or the establishment of mechanisms for the rapid determination of the member state responsible for processing an application are measures that strengthen and establish a common asylum policy, ensuring higher standards of protection. but what is lacking, mr president, is the subject of solidarity, of shared solidarity, and we still have a long way to go in this respect.
mr president, it is true that each member sees things in a different way and, indeed, as mr díaz de mera has said, we have taken a step - i would not call it a big one - but we have taken a step and, as he has denounced, in the end solidarity is lacking. that is because of the dublin regulation, which has been the framework that the commission itself has accepted and within which we have had to move. so we can say today that, despite all the progress we have made, we still do not have a common asylum system. we know that there are groups that are furiously opposed, but it is our responsibility to defend the values of those who are demanding for them the same values that we defend for ourselves. the early warning mechanism is not sufficient because the asylum problems, which are concentrated in certain countries in the south, are not temporary, they are structural. it is not that asylum seekers can come at a certain time because there are wars, etc., etc., it is that they are already in those countries and are in situations contrary to our principles. that is why the dublin regulation is not the solution, and so long as it exists, we will not have a common asylum policy. we have made progress, yes, but we are still far from what is sufficient and necessary.
mr. president, look at this photograph. it's a repeated photograph on the european shores. it is the picture that is repeated in malta, in lampedusa, on the spanish coast. it's the photograph of tragedy, of the struggle against poverty and the flight to freedom. commissioner, after the shame directive, europe must give a political signal in favour of a common asylum system. the need to protect children's rights, to provide full legal assistance and to guarantee fundamental rights in detention centres has been a timid outcome. i regret that the common system of reception is not sufficient. asking for asylum is not a crime, it's a right. europe must finally give a comprehensive humanitarian response in favour of human life.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that this has been a very good debate. a majority supports what you are about to vote on tomorrow, and this shows that the three institutions – the council, parliament and the commission – can agree when we have important matters to discuss. we have agreed this in very difficult economic times. many of our citizens are really suffering, and there are huge difficulties all over the european union. in these times we also have xenophobic parties emerging and trying to set the agenda, and populist parties who are blaming migrants for all kinds of miseries in europe. despite that backdrop, we have been able to show that the eu can decide upon a system that will really be worthy of european values. it will be fair, predictable, transparent and high-quality, with clear procedures and conditions. the level of civilisation of a society is often measured by how that society treats the most vulnerable. i think that we have managed to put the most vulnerable asylum seekers at the centre of this proposal, giving them protection. this is an important signal to us, to our citizens and to the rest of the world. today – as someone said – nine or ten countries take 90% of all the asylum seekers who arrive in europe. with these new provisions to be voted on tomorrow, all member states will be obliged to put in place a system where they can receive asylum seekers in a dignified way, with the same standards everywhere. hopefully, this will put an end to the lottery that so many of you have referred to. with this, we will hopefully have 27 – soon 28 – countries taking responsibility, giving shelter to those who are fleeing oppression and persecution, and thereby sharing the responsibility and hopefully being able to help more people. some of you have expressed a wish for some of the proposals to go further. i share that. i would also have liked to have gone further on some of these proposals, but i think that we can be proud of the compromise that we have agreed upon. it is a fine compromise, and the proposals are a step forward on all the issues that you have raised. on all issues, there is a rise in standards and there is clarification. the list of exceptions is much smaller, and it will bring much more clarity, which will benefit those who come to ask for asylum. laws are important. it is a very important step forward. now they have to be implemented, of course, and this will be a challenge. it will take time and will be difficult. we will try to do whatever we can from the commission’s side to come forward with assistance. easo is ready to help with staff training and advice. we have put aside money in the mff in order to help member states, and we will be working with the national authorities to make sure that this is put into place as soon as possible. once it is in place, i hope that you will be watching your different member states debating and making sure that it works. the commission will certainly be very watchful within the instruments provided for in the new asylum system – for instance in the dublin regulation – but it will also not hesitate to use the powers that the commission has regarding infringement procedures and so on. it will take some time before all member states fully respond to the high standards that we are setting ourselves today. but hopefully, by working together, we will very soon have a system that we can truly be proud of and that we can call a true european asylum system. thank you very much for all the efforts that you have made on this. i look forward to the vote tomorrow.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you very much for what i think has been a very useful debate. i would like to thank all of you for participating. the member states of the european union have a very long tradition of protecting persons fleeing from persecution. this tradition forms an important part of the spiritual and, indeed, the moral heritage of our union, which is founded on universal values of human dignity, freedom and solidarity. of course, the right to asylum is guaranteed in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. union institutions, in finalising these legislative instruments, are building upon and giving practical effect to these universal values of ours. it is important to acknowledge, even in these challenging times for the peoples of the member states, that there remains this steadfast commitment to the geneva convention and all of the other relevant international instruments as essential elements in the fabric of the international commitment – and indeed the european commitment – to human rights. i might just reply to a few of the issues which have been raised by members. indeed, the question of associated states was raised by commissioner malmström. the legal advice to the council was to delete the recitals related to the associated states, but the council is working on a statement which we hope can be attached to the minutes of the council with regard to the relationship with the associated states. i just wanted to clarify that point. a number of members, in their contributions, raised the issue of the recent court judgment on unaccompanied minors, which of course is a question which is of great concern to all of us. the implications of this judgment are currently being examined by member states and will be taken into account, of course, when implementing the common european asylum system. that work is ongoing. another point which i might touch on: ms ludford and a number of others raised questions on eurodac. i have heard the points that members have made about law-enforcement access to the eurodac system. i appreciate that this is sensitive. it is, i should stress, limited to serious crime and terrorist offences. we must use all of the tools available to fight such serious offences, and a number of members have made that point. i think that it is proportionate and it is necessary, but access to the system will be very limited and will be subject to very specific rules, so i hope that this allays any concerns that might exist. so in concluding, mr president and members, the task of ensuring the efficient and uniform application of the existing union acquis and the new legislation lies before us. this work has already begun. it is very challenging, and i am sure it will be intensified over the coming period. but in this endeavour, i think we can be guided by the principles and the values which i mentioned, the principles of solidarity and responsibility, ensuring that the ceas has a very strong foundation of mutual trust, which i consider to be hugely important. so again i want to thank members for participating in this debate, the rapporteurs for the excellent work which they have carried out on behalf of the parliament, and, indeed, on behalf of all of us, commission malmström. again, thank you very much.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we will certainly not be able to put an end to wars, dictatorships and famine with directives or reports - which are at the root of the asylum problems and of many other problems which we are dealing with in this parliament - but we are taking a step, big or small, it is a matter of perspective. i personally think it's a very big step and i've been dedicated my whole life to the defense of human rights. and we are taking a step towards peace, freedom and humanity.
mr president, this plenary session of the european parliament is witnessing the unblocking of the asylum package, but also of the schengen package, in its two main parts: the evaluation of the schengen system and the legal framework for the re-establishment of borders in the european union. the rapporteur who has led these files must therefore be congratulated, but there are also reasons for appreciating the strengthening of mutual trust between the member states; the commission and the european parliament, whose powers of information and evaluation of this package so important for the acquis on the free movement of persons are strengthened; and, above all, the european citizens themselves, because this package has been the subject of a year and a half of negotiations precisely as a result of populist impulses which tend to the renationalization of a policy which the treaty of lisbon definitely wants for europe: the policy of free movement of persons. the unilateral change by the council has been at the origin of this year and a half of negotiations which are now unblocked. it is therefore a matter of conveying to the citizens the message that the european parliament will ensure that any possible future amendment to this important piece of legislation ensures the representation of european citizens, who regard the free movement of persons as one of the greatest treasures, one of the best components of the european acquis, of what europe represents for 500 million citizens.
mr president, thanks to carlos and renate, we are making considerable progress today on the community dimension of schengen and on the freedom of movement of citizens. i shall be telegraphic: you have done a worthwhile, intense and consistent job. we appreciate it. in short, parliament is right and the council is wrong. the council has been inflexible and short-sighted in the process. parliament, thanks to you, will have access to relevant information in evaluation and monitoring processes, but do we really have to believe that we will be consulted on any reform that substantially affects the schengen area? i trust mrs malmström, i am silent on what i expect from the council; parliament will be vigilant.
member of the commission. − mr president, first on romania and bulgaria: this is not the subject of today’s debate but, as you know – i do not have to repeat it – the commission has said on several occasions that we do think that romania and bulgaria are ready to join schengen and do fulfil all the technical criteria, which have to be the same for all countries. however, the council has still not yet been in a position to make that decision. i hope they will do so very soon. the creation of schengen – as many of you have said – is the most tangible and valued achievement of the european union. four hundred and twenty million people residing in the area move freely across the internal borders, making some 1.25 billion journeys within the eu every year, and that is rising. the fact that they can travel from lapland in northern finland to malta without a passport is truly something very tangible and good for the citizen. it has of course had a huge impact on the internal market. on the negotiations, i am aware that some of you would have liked to take a little longer. it is also not 100% what i wanted, but i think that this compromise is the only one possible today. we can be proud of it. it will give us better possibilities to remedy deficiencies at the external borders. the commission will also have greater possibilities to make sure that member states do not have unauthorised border controls at the internal borders. through these regular evaluation dialogues and reports we will hopefully build trust, because trust was what was lacking when we had this huge political debate a year and a half ago. with this agreement, the freedom to travel around europe without border controls should continue to be granted for many years to come. therefore i very much encourage you to vote for the proposals that have been prepared by your two rapporteurs, mrs weber and mr coelho. i would once again like to thank them very much for their hard work in concluding this file, together of course with the irish presidency.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and other related reports of certain types of undertakings (com ((2011) 0684 - c7-0393/2011 - 2011/0308 ((cod)) (a7-0278/2012), and- report by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2004/109/ec on the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to information about securities admitted to trading on a regulated market and commission directive 2007/14/ec (com (2011) 0683 - c7-0803 - 2011/0307 (cod)) (a7-0292/2012).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the competition rules are applied in the member states, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. competition policy is a pillar of the community project: the prohibition of collusive behaviour and abuse of a dominant position, the rules on state aid and the control of concentrations are based on the treaty of rome and create value every day for businesses, consumers and taxpayers, and ultimately for all european citizens. in this report i would like to highlight four messages. the first is that while competition is always important, in times of crisis it is vital. in the absence of a community framework to address it, it has provided instruments to maintain the stability of the financial system, provide assistance to countries in difficulty and promote more transparent, open and innovative financial markets within the union. the commission - and this is stated in our resolution - must continue to give priority to the financial system, by continuing the investigations under way, by ensuring that the extraordinary public aid scheme does not go beyond what is necessary and by ensuring that the beneficiary institutions restructure at the lowest social cost, discipline the remuneration of their executives and do not gain any advantage over those institutions which have not needed aid. the second is that competition is a lever for sustainable growth and employment in a globalised environment. we need to get back on a growth path. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are properly used. a level playing field is necessary for companies to base their success on their own merits, on their talent to meet social demands. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy will not be achieved without enhancing the effectiveness of competition policy. the third message is that competition policy has an essential role to play in services of general economic interest. to monitor the proper use of public funds, to prosecute discriminatory behaviour and to enable technical progress to be converted into social progress, active competition policy development is necessary. their action in this field - and we have examples in our resolution on health, pharmacy and insurance - must be stepped up if the european social model is to have a future. and the fourth message is that competition contributes to consumer welfare. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the competition rules are properly applied. action in the food sector in favour of small and mediumsized enterprises and consumers must be continued and extended to other sectors so that economic improvements can benefit society as a whole. competition policy cannot be an obstacle to the restoration of the rights of those who have been shown to have been victims of irregular and illegal practices in the marketing of financial products, as has scandalously happened in my country. i hope that the house will confirm its support for paragraph 17 of the proposal in its vote tomorrow to enable justice to be done. i would like to conclude by expressing my gratitude as rapporteur to all those who have contributed to this report.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr antolín sánchez-presedo, on his good work and his willingness to deal with this report. competition policy is undoubtedly one of the most important areas in the european commission's portfolio. the directorate-general for competition is empowered to take action against cartels and monopolies which harm the interests of consumers and smes. i therefore believe that more budgetary and human resources should be allocated to the directorate-general for competition to ensure that european interests in this area can be effectively defended in as many sectors at the same time as is required. i also believe that this parliament should have the power of codecision, particularly on state aid. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur when he warns us in his report about state aid, especially that which is temporary but which, in the name of so-called general interests, becomes permanent state aid. in this sense, and in the specific case of state aid to banking, i think the commission should play a more active role in cases such as bankia and in the rapid liquidation of the industrial portfolio of this bank, since continuing to inject public money has an opportunity cost, which is social cuts. it seems that in spain they are now also trying to save private motorways. finally, i think it is also important that the directorate-general for competition should be more active in the transport sector and in the problems facing competition in the railway sector - in some member states there is virtually no competition. finally, in the aviation sector too, it seems that there are currently more than a thousand bilateral agreements between eu member states and third countries which restrict, among other things, the airports of arrival, thus undermining free competition between them.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much to all those who intervened in this debate. i think everybody agrees with the first point that mr sánchez presedo made in his presentation of the report: in times of crisis competition policy is of the utmost importance in creating opportunities for new entrants, in supporting smes, in creating new areas of economic activity and in encouraging investments and innovation. this will give us a more competitive economy, improve our competitiveness and provide an excellent basis for more growth and more jobs. when talking about competition policy in times of crisis i also fully agree with mr sánchez presedo and some of the other participants in the debate that it is important to have the right approach to the financial sector in this time of crisis. the financial sector is key for the recovery of our economy to finance the real economy. we know about the huge amounts of taxpayers’ money which is being channelled to the banks that need public support. this is authorised according to state aid control decisions based on restructuring plans and commitments to put in place viable business models for our banks with adequate burden-sharing to avoid having taxpayers shoulder an excessive burden and to create the best conditions to preserve and protect competition in the banking sector. some of you raised other issues. the last speech, by mr paška, referred to the level of banking fees. this is relevant in creating the conditions for restructuring banks to protect competition in a national market or in a global market at european level. in particular we have ongoing anti-trust cases with a view to placing, for instance, the fees that credit and debit card players charge the users of these payment instruments under the control of government competition policy. many of you also referred to services of general economic interest. i would remind this parliament that we have put in place a new framework for state control in these key aspects of our social market economy. services of general economic interest should be efficient to provide the best services at the lowest possible cost to our citizens, but this sector also needs public financing. the question is how to establish an adequate level of public finance for these services and how they can create more opportunities and more competition without distorting competition. i think we are implementing the new framework successfully. some of you mentioned some sectors of strategic importance from the competition policy enforcement viewpoint. i fully agree with those who mention the transport sector and energy sector. these are network industries which were former state monopolies and still have a strong market presence at the national, and sometimes cross-border, level. they require special attention and that is why some specific comments were made in the annual report concerning them. i am always ready to establish dialogue with any of you – not just with the econ committee, which is my main interlocutor, but also with other committees dealing with some of those sectors – and to explain in more detail what we are doing in these areas. i would also like to specifically refer to the decision the college of commissioners adopted today here in strasbourg regarding public enforcement. we have adopted a proposal for a directive on the possibility to compensate the victims of competition infringements. as we know, all member states have the option of taking individual actions. we have therefore established in this proposal, which will be discussed by you and by the council, a common approach with a view to establishing a level playing field offering greater possibilities and opportunities for compensation to the victims of breaches of competition rules. we have also set out in this proposal principles and requirements that will need to be taken into account in the member states that have legislation on collective redress. as you will remember, in the plenary session vote on the lehne report, this parliament asked the commission not to legislate in particular, and to focus competition policy enforcement on collective actions. we have adopted today a recommendation setting out principles for collective redress not only in the cases of the private enforcement of competition rules but also for other kinds of collective action. for competition policy to be credible and with a view to achieving its objectives, both and private enforcement and public enforcement by the commission and the other competition authorities is required. private enforcement is extremely important, and collective action is a key issue. i hope that the recommendations we adopted today and national legislation sharing the same principles will contribute to the achievement of the desired results. finally, thank you very much for the remarks regarding dg competition’s human resources and economic means. you are the budget authority together with the council. you know what you are voting for when adopting the budget every year, when discussing the next multiannual financial framework. i can tell you that, if dg competition were allocated greater human and economic resources, we could do more. we are also asking the member states to do more with less money given the difficulties and constraints of fiscal consolidation. we are stepping up action to modernise state aid, we are increasing our action against cartels, we are increasing our action in terms of anti-trust and we are increasing our action in the control of mergers, but we can do more, and not only with our own efforts. i want to thank you for your efforts but also the staff working under my responsibility for their efforts. i also can tell you that if we had more resources we could even do more.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank in particular the valuable contributions and constructive spirit of the alternative rapporteurs, the opinion-makers and the members who have tabled amendments, and also the extraordinary cooperation of the commission's administrators and our assistants on this dossier. competition policy is a horizontal policy which must permeate all sectoral policies within the european union. it is necessary to ensure the consistency of european legislation with the principles of competition policy and to achieve, in addition, ever closer cooperation between all competition authorities within the european union. i am pleased that the commissioner has today tabled his proposal for a directive on actions for damages arising from infringements of competition law, which will be dealt with by codecision. in other words, parliament, as it has repeatedly requested, will be able to exercise its role as a co-legislator. in my view, it is a very important step which establishes a private pillar 'alongside the existing public pillar' in the field of competition policy, will promote a culture of competition and strengthen democratic legitimacy in the field of competition. the report presented by the commission has revealed the contribution of competition policy to the requirements of the present situation and the structural and long-term needs of the european union economy, and i hope that tomorrow parliament, beyond the 85 specific paragraphs of the resolution, will send a clear message that the commission will continue to have our strong support in continuing to work towards making the principles of competition policy in the european union effective.
the rapporteur. - mr president, thank you very much, commissioner, for coming, even though it is late. in fact, the subject of debate today is one we have been talking about for a long time: illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, that fishing which 'seems to be' to some people is particularly attractive because it has a lower price - i am talking about wholesalers or retailers - precisely because it has been done without complying with the environmental, social and other standards required of those who want to do things right and those who do things right. what is interesting and relevant to me in this debate is to highlight the importance not only of the measures that have been established but of the fact that these measures that exist are being enforced; this is the aspect that is giving rise to a great deal of debate. when we recall the process of drawing up the regulation now in force - the regulation on fisheries commonly known as iuu fishing - we recall the fierce opposition that some countries, especially those which are fish markets, showed at the time, not necessarily the fishing nations, but those countries, in the european union, which are a zone, a market area for that fish which is often imported. and here, in my view, arises one of the great questions we have to ask ourselves when we assess where we are today and how far we are progressing or not in terms of what is expected from a regulation of this kind. it is very good to have a text 'we have it', but this text must be applied, it must be implemented. when six months ago the commission finally presented us with a list of eight countries - belize, cambodia, fiji, guinea, panama, sri lanka, togo and vanuatu - we understood that these eight countries were a first sample of those countries which could end up on a list of countries which were not cooperating against iuu fishing. at that time - six months ago, i insist - it was a yellow card, it was not a red card. we are in june, six months have passed and we are waiting for that preliminary list to become a final list - and this is where i ask my first question to the commissioner: where are we on this issue? we do not know exactly which countries will remain, but there is one element which is of particular concern to me and that is the possibility, for example, that a country such as sri lanka may be left out, among other things because of its privileged relations or because of the influence that a country such as the united kingdom may have had on this issue. i would therefore like the commissioner to say something to us on this. this, as far as the frame. secondly, it is also important to explain that this measure affects eight countries which are not really the most important countries in this type of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. countries such as korea, russia, indonesia, the philippines, thailand, papua new guinea or even china should, in our view, be part of this list. we have enough information to know that these countries, in many cases, are not only not cooperating, but are engaging in practices that are clearly questionable - like korea, for example, or china, in some very specific respects. it is true that in the case of korea we have recently made some progress: we have learned, through a press release, of measures adopted by the korean government to start a process which we consider interesting, but we shall see where it leads. but the commissioner also knows very well that measures such as those adopted by the korean government, in the sense of simply establishing vms mechanisms or proposing stricter sanctions, are also no guarantee of anything. so we understand that this process has to be done right. the commission always insists that this is a complicated process and therefore we also ask that there be sufficient resources to enable the commission to have the equipment and the capacity to do the legislative work that is required to be able to make that list. so, mr president, this being the framework of the debate - and i conclude my first speech here - i would like to point out that the debate goes far beyond the report we are discussing and that the framework is as important, if not more so, than the report itself.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr romeva i rueda, and also the committee on fisheries (pech) for its contribution to this important file. yes, this is a very important issue. combating illegal fisheries worldwide is one of our main priorities and it will be, maybe, our first priority now since the work on the reform of our common fisheries policy is on track. referring to enforcement and control and combating iuu, we have a lot to do and we have to work on it together. i think that we owe a great many thanks to all the members of this parliament for the clear support given to the proposal on alignment of the iuu regulation with the lisbon treaty. parliament has to play an important role on this and we have to find a solution to these problems together. what have we done up till now? first i would like to emphasise that a lot of energy has been devoted to combating overfishing in the context of the common fisheries policy reform in the last year, and rightly so. in fact, sustainability is the red line that can connect this file to the reform and our position in general. our first priority as a commission has continued to be to enforce the existing rules in european waters. this is important too – what our member states are doing in european waters. so, for instance, in march of this year, we reduced the spanish quota for mackerel by 65 000 tonnes because of overfishing. in recent years, deficiencies in the control systems have also led to administrative enquiries and action plans being agreed with malta in 2011, spain in 2012 and latvia in 2013. we have some actions in the pipeline now for this. but, as mr romeva i rueda has pointed out, whilst we are getting our own house in order, we still import a lot of fish, so this angle exists of all these markets which are very interested in importing fish. that is why it is essential to ensure that international conservation rules are applied not only in eu waters, but also to the wild fish we import from other countries. our main priority was and is to work at the level of countries, at an institutional level. over the past three years, the commission has undertaken a process of identifying non-cooperating third countries. we have examined and we are still examining a lot of countries but, as mr romeva i rueda has already mentioned, this resulted in eight countries being given a ‘yellow card’ six months ago. what is the objective of this exercise? let us remember that the objective of this exercise is to bring about fundamental reform of the fisheries control systems. we want to collaborate with third countries in order to have satellite controls, inspections, laws allowing effective sanctions. during these last few months after we gave these yellow cards, we were able to convince some countries to move to an effective fisheries control system. in particular, fiji, togo, sri lanka and panama have made credible progress. these countries will receive additional time to implement the necessary reforms and adapt their fleets, but with these countries the cooperation is already there. concerning the rest of the countries: as we speak a mission is ongoing in one country, vanuatu, so i will tell you about this later. the other countries, the remaining countries, have not been that cooperative until now. if their current attitude remains the same, i will have no choice but to prepare the next steps. what will the next steps be? the next steps could entail trade measures to be adopted by the council on a proposal from the commission. this what we are preparing now. simultaneously, we have investigations and cooperation missions ongoing as regards further countries. a lot of other countries, some of them mentioned by mr romeva i rueda, are attracting our attention now. if no concrete progress is achieved with those countries, i intend to hand out, before the end of the year, during the autumn, a few more yellow cards. let me finish by thanking again mr romeva i rueda and the member states. i look forward to your support in order to prioritise the control issues during the coming months.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would like to thank mr romeva in particular for having also adhered to the scope of his report, which was the adaptation to the comitology after lisbon. i have no objection to your report, as i said to you on the day, but i would have liked you to have sent - as you have done here - a much clearer and more forceful message to the commission and the council, particularly in relation to the procedure for adding and removing third countries from the list of non-cooperating countries. this parliament - as has been said - has been asking for a long time for a list of countries under investigation to be provided. we have never been given anything and we were surprised when recently, at a meeting with member states, the european commission presented what we already thought was a definitive list of countries to be included because, moreover, some member states even asked the commission whether imports from these countries could already be banned. the european commission understood was frightened and, in a procedure which was never clear and which, as the commission itself has acknowledged, was somewhat irregular, it again extended the deadline saying that the procedure required notification, etc., etc. now you say that there are already four countries that are doing a little better, but we still do not know what will happen with this and i still say that i do not see a clear political will to start including once and for all in this list countries that we know are doing things in a way that precisely contradicts the principles of regulation (ec) no 1005/2008, that is, the one concerning iuu fishing. that is why my group has rightly insisted that this matter should be brought before the ordinary legislative procedure, so that it can play a much more active part in this procedure. this house did not want to do that - even though the rapporteur is now talking about this - and our amendments were therefore not adopted. in any case, madam commissioner, i would like to say one thing: i think that in the years since this regulation has been inoperative, many shortcomings have been identified and we all know what path we must take to solve some of the problems that we have all naturally identified. for example, with regard to the problem of control by member states of vessels coming from third countries which do not comply with the requirements, we already know that there is one member state which is making a great effort in this respect and that other member states, citing reasons of lack of officials, etc., etc., are ignoring their obligations, which are very serious, in controlling these imports, many of which may correspond to iuu fishing. i therefore think it is time for the commissioner to tell us whether she intends to present at some point a reform, in this case not of comitology but of substance, of the iuu regulation.
mr president, commissioner, the european union must indeed step up coordination and effectiveness in the fight against illegal fishing. it is a very serious problem - as has been said - for the sustainability of marine stocks and also a distortion of the market. it does not guarantee food security and has tremendous economic and social repercussions, so we must establish more controls and also sanctions, and be very strict. in spain, they do have very strict controls. as you know, more than 50% of the sanctions imposed have been for the exercise of these controls in my country. but there are other member states which are more lax, which raise their hands and do not establish sufficient control mechanisms in their ports, but buy from third countries which do not respect the conditions we demand in europe from our fishermen. then they process and market these products. it is therefore a question of coordination and struggle, and of the instruments we must give you so that the council too will agree to implement these measures.
mr president, commissioner, i shall not go into much about comitology. we are all aware that the fight against illegal fishing is a long, tortuous and very complicated road, on which we are engaged and which requires intelligent and very well coordinated action so that this undesirable fishing does not go unpunished and can be eradicated. it is undesirable from an economic point of view, but even more so from an environmental point of view, since it represents one of the most serious threats to the sustainability of fisheries and biodiversity, since it naturally contributes to overfishing and also represents unfair and unfair competition for fleets which, like the european fleet, comply with the established rules. the diagnosis is clear. what we have to do is to make the rules effective and the controls efficient and accompanied by strong sanctioning measures. there is no room for weakness or condescension here. the commissioner said there was still a lot to do. it is true, but proposals and examples such as those we have - one of them is the cites decision on the countries responsible for re-flagging - do little to help in this respect. nor does it help that wrongdoers feel unpunished. mr gallagher has given a clear example today. the commission's rigorous efforts to combat this fishery will have our full support. you must be as clear as i am today.
member of the commission. − mr president, i can understand that all the members of parliament who have already spoken put this issue of combating illegal fisheries high on their own agenda and i would like to thank them for that. we need this support from parliament in order to move forward. as i have explained, a lot of our resources, energy and efforts have had to be dedicated to the reform of the common fisheries policy. since we are now on track with that – although there is much which remains to be done in terms of implementing the reform – we are going to focus more on the present issue, and i agree with you that we have to bring you concrete results. i have a regulation in front of me and, as a commissioner, i am obliged to implement it. there are some thoughts perhaps about changing and reforming this regulation. i think that, in the period of my mandate that is left, i have to address the implementation of the regulation. i would like to be concrete on that. this regulation has been in place for only three years. we need to find out how exactly we can promote the implementation of this regulation before discussing anything else. of course if you have any proposals, we will welcome them, but i would like to be completely honest: i cannot have in front of me this new task of a new reform of this regulation, the iuu regulation or other regulations. we have to implement the reform of the fisheries policy and we have to focus on the implementation of this regulation. when implementing the regulation, the first issue is to respect the regulation. so let me come to you again very openly: this regulation is not about sanctions. almost everybody presented it as a sanctions regulation. yes, it has sanctions, but it is a mixture of that and collaboration with third countries in order to establish institutions and mechanisms for permanent control. if we fail to do that – we have only been trying to do it for three years, for god’s sake – then we are going to have sanctions. please try to follow our procedure here; we are going to have sanctions at the end of the time-line. for three years now we have created a momentum through our international cooperation. we have signed memorandums of understanding with the united states, japan and also other countries and we are trying to focus on the implementation of the regulation. ninety-six countries are now working together and almost 99% of the fish which is imported into the european union has to be accompanied by a certificate. of course there are loopholes; of course the quality of the certificates is not always of the best. but we have done something, so i cannot accept accusations that there is lack of political will on the part of the commission. the will is there, but we are facing a lot of difficulties. let me explain what we have to do. there was a reference to resources. yes, i have only a handful of people working on this in our services. this is true. so now i have given instructions that, after finishing the reform, we have to enhance the services dealing with this. but, as you will understand, we have to take the most effective and efficient approach possible. with regard to the specific points raised, it is not true that we have done nothing to deal with the big countries – or the ‘big fish’, as they have been called. we have focused from the start on countries that are connected – if i may put it that way – with a flag of convenience. i hope you will not misunderstand me, but that is the way i would like to put it. but this does not mean that these countries are of lesser importance. from these countries – the eight countries we have already mentioned – we import fish that costs more than eur 100 million for european citizens. so we are talking about a large amount of fish. we cannot neglect this, as some of you have suggested. it is not only a question of sanctions – the ‘red cards’ we talked about. let me give you another example. we have listed some korean vessels. we have mentioned korea. after listing these korean vessels and working with other countries, there was a final outcome. those vessels were punished by sanctions and fines of over eur 4 million. so the korean vessels have been punished. the fact that we do not see them in the list does not mean that we have done nothing. i would ask you to please try to see the whole picture. with regard to the next list of countries, we are focusing attention on some of the big countries we have mentioned. we have repeatedly sent missions to china and i am perhaps going to visit that country myself in the autumn in order to find a way to collaborate with them. it is not as simple as saying that we can stop imports without giving them the time to adjust. the same goes for korea. i know that korea is listed under the iuu regulation by the united states. we are working on that issue and i will soon come back to you on it. so we are working on these countries, but we have to be sure that if we are going to follow a procedure, it will achieve concrete results. finally, i should like to say a few words about iceland, the faroes and the dispute about mackerel. as has been mentioned, we are going to proceed with trade sanctions against the faroes regarding herring. on mackerel there was an agreement in the council – which i think many members of this parliament supported – to discuss the issue with the new icelandic government in order to give them the opportunity to find a common basis for negotiations. i have visited iceland and had discussions with the icelandic government. i can confirm that no concrete basis for further negotiation was established. although the icelandic government is very willing to cooperate, it is not willing to put forward a concrete figure as soon as possible in order to start negotiations. so there is no basis for negotiation. we have to bear this in mind and proceed accordingly. i will perhaps be in a position to give you more precise information about this issue in a few weeks’ time.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i think it is important to take a fundamental view of the debate: the key to the report we are voting on tomorrow is the commission's request that a 'lisbonisation' process also be carried out, that is to say, that the instruments be acquired to enable the iuu regulation to be applied. and although mrs fraga insisted that we should do it differently in the case of, for example, the lists of countries, i personally and the majority accepted the commission's proposal that it should be an implementing act and that in this respect the commission should assume a responsibility, which is what the commissioner is proposing at the moment. but for that it is very important that there should be no loopholes of impunity, and that is where the message of mr davis and other members is fundamental. and it is not a message for the commissioner, it is a message for the european commission, which must understand that the credibility of the commission at this moment is based on a good implementation of the regulation and, above all, also on providing us with the necessary resources for control practices, which is the great important challenge that must be solved in the short term. and in that sense, it is not just a matter of lists of countries - as has been said - but also of the list of ships. and this is another aspect that we haven't specifically mentioned, but i think it's important to remember. finally, as a final reflection, i think that when we talk about the importance of combating illegal practices, we must also understand that we have a responsibility here also from the point of view of trade. and here i also make a request, not so much to the commission's 'fisheries' dimension as to the 'trade' dimension, that it understands that if we want to be credible also when we conclude trade agreements with the rest of the world, this aspect cannot be forgotten. and that's why it's so important. i support his firmness, but i also urge the commission as a whole to give us collectively the instruments and the resources to carry out that implementation, if we are not to have to lament - as mr davis said - that while we are punishing the small ones, we are simply letting the big ones, the big fish, do as they please, and that is obviously a bad message.
mr president, commissioner, on 9 february the spanish minister for agriculture, mr arias cañete, triumphantly announced in our country that the agreement on the financial framework had been very positive because it was not going to involve a single euro cut in the aid for the common agricultural policy for spain. a few months later, and as a result of this agreement on the financial framework, the commission is presenting us with a proposal for a regulation on financial discipline which proposes a cut of about 5% in the aid to each farmer in the union. this is what is causing the spanish socialist delegation to reject it outright, supporting the proposal that has come out of the committee on agriculture and rural development following mr capoulas' report, which does not accept the cut that the commission is proposing as a consequence - again - of an agreement that the council has adopted proposing financial and budgetary cuts in all and every one of the union's policies, a question on which this parliament has not yet taken a position.
mr president, my intervention in this house is to argue, as mr omarjee has done, that the outermost regions should be exempted from the application of the budgetary and financial discipline proposed in this report, just as they have been excluded from the principle of modulation applied in recent years within the common agricultural policy. the european commission is proposing a eur 14.5 million rebate for the rup. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the cap. in this connection, i would remind you that, in the last amendment to posei, parliament advocated a substantial increase in the funds for these areas, as it has been shown that they are clearly insufficient. the national aid granted for years by france and spain to supplement the funds received by the outermost regions under the common agricultural policy is further proof that the european union's support in the agricultural field is not enough. we should also remember that these regions are facing a particularly severe economic crisis, with unemployment rates above the european average and an agricultural sector which is currently the main economic refuge for many workers. i hope that, as has happened on many other occasions and with the legal backing of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, this parliament will once again show solidarity with farmers in the european outermost regions and understand the importance of granting them special treatment in the field of budgetary discipline by supporting our amendment in this regard.
mr president, welcome the debates and agreements of the next european council, as welcome as are these debates which we usually hold before those of the heads of state and government. they are a sign of the sensitivity of this house and its desire to make its voice heard on the great issues that are affecting europe. as i said, all that is very well, but it would be better if we proclaimed once and for all that europe is not going to be built by looking at what the presidents of the member states do and say, but by looking at what the community institutions themselves do and say, that is to say, this parliament and the european commission. i therefore want to hear more from the commission and to see its president announcing policies and decisions; i also want to see controversy around his words. i don't want his role to be supplanted by any chancellor or any president. i also want the work of this parliament to be seen by the public and to be a regular guest in the european media.
mr president, mr barroso, you know, as i do, although i have not said it, that the european citizens are painfully fed up with the responses and the lack of responses of the european institutions to the greatest economic, social and political crisis in europe since its creation. and you know, mr barroso, as do i, that citizens are calling for a profound change and a social pillar worthy of the name, which reconciles the economy with society, which reconciles the real economy with the financial economy and which reconciles the european institutions with their citizens, and a social pillar which is real, not fictitious, which is not just rhetorical or merely verbal. and you know, as i do, mr barroso, that all the institutions have a high responsibility and that it is not enough to simply put the council's liabilities on the back of its default. we know the difficulties you are facing, we know the difficulties in the council. but we now also know that, just as the council is reluctant to balance the economic and the social areas, these resistances are also in the college, and you are responsible for these resistances. i also see how mr rehn is sitting in a preeminent way in front of mr andor, which is also a way of pointing out the degree and gradient of responsibility and the gradient of trust that exists in the college. it cannot be that the economy prevails over society, over economic issues. we are asking for a strong social pillar, mr barroso. we are missing that communication from the commission. you must make that communication from the commission and also forward it to the president of the council. and we're missing indicators, and we're missing a road map that doesn't exist. mr barroso, we are running out of time, and the citizens are running out of patience. i trust you, but you have to change because the citizens are asking for a deep and real change.
mr president, commissioner, minister creighton, ladies and gentlemen, the council of 27 and 28 june will be a key opportunity to give concrete answers to our citizens, and the underestimation of the side effects of the mix of austerity and austerity has been evident up to now. we have not realised, and the european institutions in general have not realised, the effects that these would have, and today we are faced with a level of unemployment, with a slowing down or cancellation of growth which we must of course reverse in terms of trend. that is why we are asking the council for strong responses at this meeting. we have heard here about a plan for economic recovery and employment, but we are aware of the difficulties in the council in putting it into practice, because we cannot imagine that there are hundreds of thousands of requests from small and mediumsized enterprises, who through some community programmes such as the sip programme are asking for a reduction in the cost of money and we are not able to respond simply because the council is not able to cover the costs of the commitments made. the full coverage of the amending budget is an obligation of the council, and we cannot think of postponing this until the date of allocation. businesses, as well as young people, need concrete and immediate answers.
mr president, since the beginning of the crisis the member states have made a major effort to consolidate their budgets, to ensure the sustainability of their public accounts, and have adopted very ambitious reform programmes. however, the euro area is still the only economic area in the world that will be in recession this year. without economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no job creation. it is therefore necessary and urgent to reverse the stagnation of europe with all the instruments at our disposal. it is not enough to have the member states doing the work. just as they are making major sacrifices in implementing structural reforms, the european union must do more. the union must urgently tackle two major problems: the fragmentation of financial markets and unemployment, especially among young people. it is not acceptable - as president barroso has rightly pointed out here - that companies in the european union with the same financial and economic situation have to pay a higher differential to finance themselves solely because of their geographical location. to solve the fragmentation of credit and debt markets, the european union needs the banking union. the european union cannot afford any further delays in its implementation. the integration of a single supervisor, direct recapitalisation of banks, a single resolution mechanism and a common deposit guarantee scheme must be advanced without delay. the transmission mechanism of monetary policy is not working. the european central bank should take steps to address the fragmentation of the capital markets, both in public debt and credit, especially for smes. as regards unemployment, a european plan to support youth employment must be implemented without further delay. we have talked a lot about measures here, but the truth is that they are all on the table. we have to act.
mr president, we must fight youth unemployment and i insist on four ideas. the first is that youth unemployment deprives us of the capacity and creativity of the best-educated generation in the history of europe, and there is no indicator capable of measuring such a cost. the second is that training and support for the real economy are therefore the best prescriptions against unemployment. the third is that we need concrete facts urgently. initiatives such as the youth guarantee need €21 billion to get going and those amounts are being badly misused with the stalling of the debate on the multiannual financial framework and the resistance to the european commission having its own revenue and much more economic autonomy to push policies like this. finally, i miss a more determined commitment to linking youth employment with the economy and social innovation. this form of entrepreneurship, because of its ability to make work more than a job, better fixes employment to the territory. it is also impervious to bad practices such as fictitious self-employment. in short, the values of the real economy are the best response to the voracity of the financial system that has brought us to where we are today.
member of the commission. − mr president, i very much regret that we are overrunning, but i would like to answer the questions which have been raised in the discussion about unemployment. unemployment in the eu is indeed at a dangerously high level; it is 11% of the workforce in the eu and 12% in the eurozone which is about 20 million people, and it is true that one in five unemployed are 25 years old or younger. in some countries it was high before the crisis too and there is also a dangerous polarisation inside the eu and inside the eurozone. the commission adopted one year ago an ambitious employment package to address this situation, and we also use the proposals and initiatives of this package in the country-specific recommendations during the european semester. as the president said in his introduction, we can leave no stone unturned in this effort, and that also applies to the member states. why are we specifically focusing on young people when the young, as you know, are only a minority among the total of the unemployed? it is for three reasons: first of all because young people have been disproportionately hit by the rise of unemployment; because the associated risk is enormous in terms of economic losses, social and political instability; and also because now we have the possibility to promote an eu-level solution in the form of a youth guarantee. the youth guarantee is not only an emergency relief; it is also a structural reform which will improve school-to-work transition but also the performance of training and the number and quality of apprenticeships in the member states. everybody knows that the eur 6 billion in the youth employment initiative is not enough but the eur 6 billion is a very important top-up in the regions where the situation is the worst and much bigger sums will have to come as also in the past from the european social fund. that is why it is very important, as the president said, that a significant minimum share for the european social fund will have to be ensured in the next mff. we are also working on further initiatives, for example in the area of mobility, as many young people will find more easily a new job or apprenticeship in another member state. that is why forthcoming proposals will focus on the reinforcement of eures and further support for mobility in the european labour market. we very much welcome the efforts, the actions, the contributions of national politicians for implementation, whether they are in election campaigns or not; this is very welcome. we also welcome the support of social partners who also have worked on youth employment and have come forward with their contributions. the social partners will also have to play a role in a newly reinforced social dimension of the economic and monetary uunion. in this area, as you know, the commission is working on a new communication. the rationale and the justification for a stronger social dimension comes from the divergence of employment and social conditions in the eurozone, the increasing imbalances in this area which can be detected and monitored through an employment and social scoreboard. these proposals will hopefully strengthen the social dimension and will lead to a better functioning of the emu.
mr cohn-bendit, you raised a point of order and you asked a question. it's against regulations. if you have a question, ask me if you can put it to the commissioner. it's my decision whether or not i let you do it. so if you have any questions for the commissioner, please ask me.
mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the invitation, which i am very honoured to receive, to address this house. i have a deep respect for the european parliament and its role in the european union. as i said in this house in september 2007, i am well aware of parliament's action and contribution to the process of european integration. i will not forget the frank and loyal support he gave me as prime minister during the months when i was leading the first portuguese presidency of the council in 1992. i am pleased to note the great development of parliament since maastricht. the treaty of lisbon has rightly consolidated its role as a co-legislator alongside the council. this is an option which promotes the democratic legitimacy of the union's decisions and contributes to the deepening of european civic culture. there could be no more appropriate place to share some thoughts on the challenges which i consider to be the most current and pressing for our states and citizens at this stage of the european project. in recent decades, the european union has become a remarkable political construct and a model for many. borders have been abolished, the free movement of people, knowledge and culture has been established, the single market has been established, the world's largest economic bloc and the single currency have been created, a community of belonging has been strengthened. however, we are sadly forced to realise that the inspiration and achievements we have made since the founding fathers cannot be taken for granted. economic growth in europe is weak and several countries are in recession, and unemployment is a dramatic reality. these are the two biggest challenges we face today and for which we have not yet found an effective response. it is not surprising, therefore, that they are joined by the growing divorce between decision-makers and citizens. it is exactly 28 years since portugal signed its formal commitment to join the european communities in the cloisters of the jerónimos monastery on 12 june 1985. accession to the european communities has brought the portuguese democratic process to a climax and has made a decisive contribution to the development of my country. since then, portugal has actively participated in the consolidation of the european project. portugal has brought to europe the legacy of its history, the hallmark of the atlantic dialogue, the universalism of its language and culture. our special ties of friendship with africa and latin america, the diaspora present in every corner of the world and the growing international affirmation of the community of portuguese-speaking countries are factors that contribute to the global projection of the european union, our values and our project. as you know, the portuguese are currently feeling the economic and financial crisis with all its serious social consequences particularly strongly. the last few years have been some of the most complex we have experienced in our recent history. since mid-2011, portugal has been undertaking a major effort of economic and financial adjustment and structural reforms within the framework of the programme agreed with international institutions. the process of consolidation has been progressing despite a much more unfavourable external economic environment than initially foreseen by the institutions involved and the asymmetric shock to which we were subjected. in my country, the severity of the recession has been manifest for 10 consecutive quarters, the unemployment rate has reached 17.7%, with youth unemployment at 42%. we are seeing a worrying increase in the risk of poverty. the portuguese are being asked to make very heavy sacrifices, and they have shown an admirable sense of responsibility, strengthening the bonds of solidarity and mutual aid which have made it possible to alleviate some of the most dramatic situations. mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis has made clear the degree of interdependence between the member states of the european union in general and the euro area in particular. it is the logical result of the level of integration we have achieved. it is not possible today to dissociate the situation in a member state from the general european context. in short, we are a union and not just a collection of states and markets, and this makes a huge difference when it comes to understanding the current situation and defining the most appropriate responses. the efforts made by the european union over the past two years to support the financing needs of member states in the greatest difficulty, to strengthen the rules on budgetary discipline and supervision and to deepen the coordination of economic policies should be acknowledged. the european central bank, for its part, announced the possibility of intervening unlimitedly in the secondary market for sovereign debt. it was an important milestone in combating the speculative attacks that had been undermining the euro zone. despite these positive developments, we must admit that this crisis has exposed serious weaknesses in the union. apart from the slow and lukewarm response to the euro crisis, the european union's greatest failure has been and remains the promotion of economic growth and job creation. in 2012, the euro area saw output fall by 0,6%, and the forecast is for a further negative trend in 2013. the unemployment rate in the union has risen steadily over the last five years, with 26 million people out of work, including 5.7 million young people. the euro area is in its sixth consecutive quarter of output decline and its eighth consecutive quarter of investment decline. the divergence from the trend in the united states and japan is clear. for too long, attention has been focused on austerity to correct public account imbalances, relegating economic growth to a secondary role. the delay in implementing structural reforms has put competitiveness at risk. in several member states, companies face very negative financing conditions. the breach of trust has hurt, and continues to hurt, investment. the contraction in domestic demand across the euro area, by exacerbating the impact of the measures portugal had to take to meet budget deficit targets, contributed to deepening the recession and raising unemployment to socially unacceptable levels. when countries implementing programmes to consolidate public deficits are joined by contractionary policies in other member states, the consequence is a recession throughout the union, as we are now seeing. the situation is in stark contrast to the more expansionary policy options in other blocs of the world economy. it must be acknowledged, however, that it was not for lack of vision or for a few warnings from the european commission and this parliament that the objective of economic growth and job creation did not take priority earlier on the same level as that of corrections of budgetary imbalances. in december 2011, the president of the commission, addressing this parliament, said, and i quote: we cannot build our economic union on discipline and sanctions. we also need a europe of growth and jobs. and i need not remind you of the countless occasions on which, since the beginning of the crisis, voices have been heard in this house from members of the most varied political families, including portuguese members, including yours, mr president schulz, warning of the urgent need not to forget this priority. the hesitations and political constraints of the member states have delayed the recognition that financial problems in some countries affect everyone and that the eurozone crisis cannot be solved by imposing austerity policies on the states with excessive deficits. in the case of countries under adjustment programmes, for example, the advantage of fully operating automatic stabilisers could have been recognised earlier. that is, not insisting on increased fiscal consolidation efforts just because the economic recession reduces tax revenues. the situation of high economic and financial interdependence to which i referred earlier requires member states to coordinate their policies more closely. countries are no longer able to solve their problems on their own. but on the other hand, at european level, we are not yet fully equipped to be able to do this effectively. we are in a transitional situation. the instruments of the past are not enough for europe to answer the questions of the present nor to prepare for the future. we must therefore move towards a genuine economic and monetary union in all its aspects: banking, budgetary and economic. this must be an essential element of the european union's strategy. there have been some very important contributions to the debate on the next phase of european integration, notably the commission's blueprint for a deep and genuine economic and monetary union. here too the european parliament is called upon to play a central role. i am sure that you will be able to live up to your responsibilities and to the expectations of the citizens. mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, just as the success of europe is fundamental to portugal, so too the success of portugal is fundamental to the success of europe. portugal has the support of the institutions and their partners. of course, in promoting economic growth and job creation. several areas are crucial to this objective. on the one hand, it is essential to improve the financing conditions of the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, for which both the european investment bank and the structural funds are particularly important. at the same time, a response from the european central bank is essential to restore the normal functioning of the monetary transmission mechanisms throughout the euro area. the rapid operationalization of the banking union is also absolutely essential to combat the fragmentation of credit markets and to overcome the contagion of sovereign debt risk to the banking system, favouring the financing of economies on balanced and competitive terms. it is imperative to compensate for the excessive cost of credit to enterprises which weighs on the economies of some states, such as portugal. the cost of credit borne by portuguese companies is much higher than that of their european counterparts, which undermines their competitiveness, affects investment decisions and promotes justified feelings of injustice. it would also be very important for countries subject to adjustment programmes to be able to count on european incentives and support for the structural reforms they will need to undertake to improve their competitiveness in the global market and also to ensure the sustainability of public debt. for example, they may temporarily benefit from a special scheme allowing them to grant tax incentives to investment in the marketable goods sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can understand and share the frustration of many in this parliament at the lack of ambition of the european council. however, in the present circumstances, my appeal now goes in the direction of a rapid agreement in the negotiations with the council. another requirement for portugal's success is a full return to external financing markets. this will also be a milestone in strengthening confidence and, consequently, investment in my country. the first steps have been taken successfully in the issuance of five- and ten-year bonds already this year, but the support of the european institutions and our partners remains necessary. the extension of the maturities of the portuguese republic's debt is a positive contribution, as will be my country's eligibility for the european central bank's interventions in the secondary market for public debt. i recall the commitment made by the heads of state and government of the euro area in the july 2011 declaration, reiterated in the following october, and quote: we are determined to continue to support countries under programmes until they regain market access, provided they successfully implement these programmes. clarification of how this commitment can be realised will help smooth the way back to the markets. mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, european cultural identity was built up over many centuries by the sharing of common ideals and values, by what distinguishes us as a civilization that defends freedom and democracy. europe is the place many people look for, and not just for economic reasons. we are a place of human dignity, a destination of freedom and justice. however, it was only after a world war that devastated this continent and cost millions of lives that a deeper union between its various states and peoples became possible. if this union did not exist, the risks of new conflicts and tragedies would never be far from our horizon. the european union is a peace project, as the nobel committee recently pointed out. from the dream of the founding fathers of this project of peace, stability and well-being, we have come a long way together. a path of many decades. from a common market, europe is now moving towards a genuine economic and monetary union, and significant steps have been taken towards political union. europe is now the collective destination of our young people, who have always travelled in a land without frontiers. the new generations of europeans were born and raised in this way and cannot live any other way. in the name of peace, we have decided to join forces in building an open and free europe, stronger because it is more cohesive and supportive. we are europeans by history, but it was by free choice that we built the union to which we are proud to belong. getting where we are has not been an easy road. it would be a serious setback for europe if we abandoned the spirit of a union firm in its ideals and solidary in its foundations and thus renounced all that this union guarantees us in relation to other economic and political areas of the globalised world. in this context, solidarity is a political and moral imperative for the various member states. but it is also, and above all, a principle essential to the defence of the common interest. we are together, we are a union, we are a union in times of plenty and in times of trouble. this european crisis has an economic and financial dimension, but at the same time it is a crisis of democratic legitimacy. the people of europe are increasingly distancing themselves from their leaders, and there are worrying signs that the project of a union no longer mobilizes the will or arouses the enthusiasm of the past. the crisis has revived national egos that we thought were outdated, contrary to the spirit with which the union was designed over decades and dreamed of an area of freedom and justice without parallel anywhere in the world. in the present situation, with 26 million unemployed, the crisis in europe calls for a truly european solution. a european solution is not merely economic or financial. the only way to overcome the crisis of confidence and to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of european decision-makers is to respond socially, culturally and politically to the legitimate aspirations of the peoples of europe. in 2013 we marked the european year of citizens. in 2014, elections to the european parliament will be held, which will certainly be a test for citizens' mobilisation. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union. if citizens are to believe and trust the european institutions, it is urgent that courageous decisions be taken which reveal the authenticity of this collective project, of its interests and values, of the community method. we can't waste any more time. it is now, in 2013, that we must give reasons for hope to the almost six million young people who are out of work. the european year of citizenship is a decisive step towards economic growth and the fight against the scourge of unemployment. only then can we regain the citizens' confidence in the project of a united europe. mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as the schuman declaration states, and i quote: europe will not be built all at once or in one building. it will be achieved by concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity. i could not have found a better way to describe the nature of the challenges we face and how to face them. in the name of genuine solidarity, this is the time to show concrete achievements to the citizens so that europe is the space of hope that we are all called to build. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - mr president, very quickly: in connection with the vote we are now going to take on the two candidates for the court of auditors, and as rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control for these candidatures, i would like to deplore that, once again, the governments have proposed to the european parliament only male candidates, despite the recommendation that this parliament has made to them to take account of the need to increase the presence of female candidates and members in the court of auditors, in order to bring back to normal a balanced representation of the sexes. i am not happy with my government either, which has done the same, as have most of the governments here. i also regret that there has been, once again, any skirmish or attempt to use these european candidacies to stoke national controversies or fights, instead of focusing on european criteria and interests and objectives, as well as on the suitability of the person. i therefore particularly appreciate the efforts of members and groups to overcome this problem, and i hope that this will be reflected in today's vote. and i can announce to this house that there is already a report under way from the committee on budgetary control on the future of the court of auditors in order to be able to offer alternatives and positive measures to solve these problems, among others. and now, as always, i am confident that this house will vote today with the wisdom that characterizes it.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the plenary sessions in brussels have not yet been fixed. this parliament, which has two very expensive seats, is not able to set a timetable for the division of the work of the plenary sessions between the two. this is a symbolic question which reflects the very functioning of the institution, which continues to waste the resources at its disposal to ensure continuity in the debate and the formulation of european policy. having two sessions a month allows the topics to be divided up and gives continuity to the political decision that parliament has to take on a huge variety of topics and issues of the first order in the lives of europeans. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. as this is election year, we will have only 11 strasbourg part-sessions. however, i insist once again on the absurdity of keeping two seats for parliament, particularly at a time when we are asking enormous efforts of people because of the crisis. this should be an opportunity to rethink the double (or, in fact, triple) seat of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, in line with the vote of my group, because it provides for a good distribution of meps to deal with the political issues dealt with by each committee of the parliament. the numerical distribution of parliamentary committees presented by this report distributes the new croatian meps in a rational way among the existing parliamentary committees. the aim is to include new members in committees which have a higher work intensity and a greater importance in the decisions and debates they will have to face in the remainder of the legislature. the report does not present any problematic points but deals with the technical question of the inclusion of new members of parliament, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. there is nothing controversial in the change of composition in terms of numerical distribution in committees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am against the appointment of mr neven mates as a member of the court of auditors of the european union. mr mates does not have sufficient knowledge of the court of auditors' activities and during his presentation he only referred to his experience at the imf in washington. it is a new 'man in black' with a strong neoliberal ideology, who occupies a more strategic position in controlling the budgetary actions of the european union. without specific experience in the field of audit or european funds, his role in this post will be mainly ideological and political to ensure decisions that promote the neoliberal character of european funds. it is because of your position against the election of mr mates that i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives a favourable vote to mr pufan, a candidate who meets all the requirements laid down by law to sit on the court of auditors. mr pufan has a strong background in the field, having been until now president of the romanian court of auditors, where he started working in 2002, which supports his strong experience in the audit sector. this candidate fulfils the requirements for this post with professional and independent responsibility to strengthen the role of this institution in the control and supervision of the expenditure of the different funds of the european union. it is in support of this candidate's professional profile that i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a good proposal for improving fisheries information systems to ensure that the origin of fish is known and that the rules in force in the sector are respected. many economic operators benefit from illegal fishing, as it is less costly for distributors, which is why there is reluctance to undertake effective reform in this sector. the report aims to improve the regulation so that information is produced to improve the knowledge of these activities and to set time limits on delegated acts in order to regularly assess effectiveness. it is for these reasons that the report is intended to improve information in the fisheries sector and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − establishing a community regime to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is the only way to secure the future of the fisheries sector. the fishing activity must be rationally regulated and supported by rigorous and up-to-date scientific reports, aiming at the preservation of marine resources, ensuring maximum sustainable fishing yields and at the same time facilitating the socioeconomic development of the fishing sector, particularly in those territories where there is a strong dependence on productive activity as in the case of galicia. in this sense, it is unacceptable that some countries, such as those mentioned in this report, tolerate, by action or omission, illegal or unregulated fishing practices which have an obvious cost in environmental terms, and also a penalty for those fleets which, like the galician fleet, carry out sustainable fishing.
in writing. − in favour (it was my report). the eu’s illegal fishing blacklist is a crucial tool for clamping down on illegal fishing and meps have today given the go-ahead to a rapid procedure for adding countries to this list. with iuu fishing a major threat to vulnerable fish stocks, transparency of those states and boats involved is a crucial measure for tackling the problem. these proposals will clear the way for the eu to add other countries (like south korea) to the list of non-cooperating states, with listed countries facing possible sanctions. the commission must expand the current list to include other countries for which there is clear evidence of illegal fishing, notably south korea. with repeated cases of illegal fishing and related human rights abuses, notably in west african waters, the european commission must add south korea to the blacklist. it must also finally publicly list those vessels engaging in iuu fishing: this would be crucial to support efforts to address the problem.
mr president, with the directive we have adopted on the dublin regulation we have consolidated a situation which is absolutely unfair, especially for the border countries, such as greece and malta in particular. in european countries, on average, a suspected criminal cannot be held for more than 48 hours, or 72 hours, with the permission of the judge. after that, he's either on trial or he's free. our asylum seekers are three months, and up to six months, waiting for the resolution of their refugee status or their international protection. and when six months pass, which is the legal maximum, and there's no resolution, they leave the detention centers to be rearrested. this situation is not going to change because of the dublin regulation. the united nations has just called on germany and other member states to take in 10,000 syrian refugees. do we have to wait for the united nations to say so? why have we not already decided to give all these refugees in these detention centres the welcome they deserve?
some 8% of european citizens are now at risk of poverty and social exclusion, with women and children being the most vulnerable groups. there are even many children who only get food at school because their families can no longer provide food for them at home. this parliament has today given a positive response, including my vote, to help the most marginalised people who are suffering from poverty by approving the report on the fund for aid to the most deprived. the resources allocated to this fund must be increased to support the most deprived families and individuals in our society and to show solidarity with those suffering from the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it improves the operation, the budget and the specific objectives of this fund. the report includes amendments to the text making special mention of the impact the crisis is having on women and minors. these social groups are being hit hard by the crisis while the commission works with outdated data. the percentage of the population living in poverty and the landscape of severe material deprivation has changed considerably since the beginning of the crisis. the number of women and children who have crossed the poverty line has increased and this requires action by all the institutions that can deal with this situation, which is reaching emergency levels in many european countries. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted yes. the european parliament's plenary today rejected the european commission's proposal to reduce by one billion euros the fund for aid to the most deprived for the period 2014-2020. we have advocated that the present 3.5 billion should be retained to help meet the basic needs of the poorest people. the new fund for european aid to the most deprived proposed for the period 2014-2020 will replace the current food distribution programme, which used agricultural surpluses under the cap. the new fund will have a wider scope, providing not only food but also basic material, such as clothing, and assistance to the most disadvantaged citizens of the eu.
in writing. - the economic crisis has exacerbated both poverty and social exclusion. in 2010, almost a quarter of europeans (116 million) were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. a figure that is increasing. under the europe 2020 strategy, the eu has set itself the target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people living in or at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. however, the capacity of member states to provide assistance has declined. social cohesion is increasingly threatened by the crisis. the eu must therefore respond to poverty. the european social fund is insufficient because it does not cover those citizens who are excluded from the labour market and who therefore suffer from extreme poverty. i therefore welcome the decision to create this new fund, which will complement existing cohesion instruments, in order to combat the worst forms of poverty by promoting social cohesion in the union.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new attack on the immigrant who is trying to reach the european union. the report aims to continue the line of criminalising immigrants, using the border control system of all eu member states to build a joint database to prevent immigrants from entering the eu from different member states. this database, developed in collaboration with europol, is a real institutional finger pointing to legitimize the activity of fascist and xenophobic groups operating within the eu. criminalizing the immigrant is against human rights and is a full-blown political aggression that will be carried out by these far-right groups. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − against. allowing law enforcement authorities access to the eurodac fingerprint database flies in the face of asylum seekers’ basic rights. in essence, this provision means all those who come to europe seeking protection from persecution will be treated as potential criminals from the outset. eurodac was intended to enable immigration authorities to identify asylum seekers, with a view to avoiding double applications. allowing police authorities to access the data for a totally different purpose is totally at odds with this and opens the door to discrimination. in caving in to this demand from eu governments, meps have undermined the credibility of the european parliament as an institution for defending fundamental and human rights.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is an attack on the fundamental freedoms of europeans, the free movement of capital and goods is increasingly guaranteed, but not for the citizens of the european union. the fact that member states can temporarily close their borders in the interests of their own national interests is a further confirmation that the european union is only concerned with economic and commercial matters, but never with political matters. the background of border closures has been motivated by political events, large demonstrations, etc. allowing citizens of a member state to be isolated from the rest of europe to ensure "national security". i have voted against this report because it constitutes a restriction on the free movement of persons.
in writing. − against. many of our ideas were accepted in the compromises (which predominantly followed the rapporteur’s line). however, we wanted to express our belief in the union approach and would prefer to retain the provisions from the commission’s proposal, at least at this stage. this means that we could not support compromises related to articles 24 and 25, since we believed that the commission should decide on the reintroduction of border checks for foreseeable events and prolongation for cases requiring immediate action. therefore we voted against the report in the orientation vote.
in writing. − against. if the matter were purely substantial, we could agree that significant improvements are in place, and support the report. nevertheless, we still believe that article 77(2)(e) tfeu would be a more appropriate legal basis, and voluntarily consultation is hardly a good compromise, where co-decision could be used. also a reference to ‘illegal’ immigration is not acceptable for us. for these reasons we cannot support the compromise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a good initiative aimed at reducing the bureaucratic burden faced by small businesses in the european union. the report takes the view that the reforms undertaken will reduce the administrative burden by 25% and save more than eur 1.5 billion. administrative simplification in the field of small enterprises is essential to allow economic activity to develop. the report includes legislative amendments that exempt smes from statutory audits and numerous red tape obligations while maintaining the requirements for larger companies or those with subsidiaries. these changes can lead to a real reduction in the burden without encouraging the evasion which occurs mainly in these large companies. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. annual financial statements prepared on a prudent basis should give a true and fair view of the undertaking’s financial situation. annual financial statements pursue different objectives and do not merely provide information for investors in capital markets but give account of former transactions and serve corporate governance. european accounting rules need to strike an appropriate balance between the interests of the addressees of financial statements and the interest of a company in not being unduly burdened with reporting requirements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a good source of information on the management and role of companies which issue units on regulated markets. the report introduces amendments which improve the transparency obligations on the activities of publicly traded companies. by making special mention of certain activities such as extractive companies, banking, telecommunications, etc. the most important sectors of the economy are thus obliged to render an account in a more transparent way. including exceptions for small issuers of shares, this report can be a tool to improve control over companies with shares, at least at the information level. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in a globalised world, where multinationals invest millions, often without considering the common good, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen all mechanisms that increase transparency, hence the positive vote on this legislative resolution. with this european directive, large mining, oil, gas and mineral companies will have to specify the payments made to governments for each project they develop, a particularly important measure to combat possible situations of corruption and abuse, so common in latin american countries, where multinationals have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to plunder the natural resources of these countries, with the complicity of local elites, without the whole of society benefiting from the wealth of their own territory. after the entry into force of this regulation, we will have the opportunity to know about payments above €100 000 as well as information on charges and payments for improving infrastructure, bonuses or fees. we now expect the member states to adopt these rules as soon as possible, especially when in many european countries, such as galicia, the government intends to open up mineral resources to multinationals that are committed to highly polluting technology, even in the face of strong social opposition.
in writing. − in favour. with growing volatility in global financial markets, investors are increasingly demanding more information about companies’ practices. it is clear that investors want improved transparency in order to gain a comprehensive economic picture of investment and risk. in addition, transparency in terms of disclosure is an important indicator of strong corporate governance. companies are increasingly adopting corporate governance standards, including transparency, by signing up to global reporting schemes such as the extractive industries transparency initiative (eiti), in addition to voluntary guidelines for multinational companies, such as the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises and the global reporting initiative, which are setting the transparency agenda. given all of these initiatives, there is currently a risk of a fragmented response to transparency. it is therefore important to establish a framework for strong global standards in this area. the proposal to amend the 2004 transparency directive puts such rules in place for eu companies, reflecting standards put forward in the dodd-frank act in the us. this provides a strong starting point for achieving the ultimate goal of global rules in these areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves savings in the agricultural budget, geared to direct payments, which are being introduced in a progressive manner, freeing up resources for other purposes. direct payments are a key resource for the activities of many farmers in the european union, but they are also a key resource for the large landowners who are able to maintain their fortunes and vast estates thanks to european public funds which treat them as farmers. that is why this report introduces a gradual cut in these funds, introducing the exemption for small farmers to protect the meagre aid they receive and attacking the fortunes of the biggest recipients who are an obstacle to rural development. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the commission proposed that smaller farmers receiving below eur 5000 would be unaffected, so that the cuts in direct payments are made on the biggest farmers. this is in line with our group position on small farmers. as this was also the comagri decision, most amendments related to this. otherwise am. 7 (ecr) called for no cuts in ms with average direct payments below the eu average. we rejected this logic because it is about targeting the biggest farmers (internal convergence in cap reform jargon), not ms inequalities (external convergence, which will also be dealt with in the cap reform). am. 12 extended the logic of the current funding period, where the modulation mechanism (reducing direct payments) from 2007-2013 did not apply to the outermost regions/smaller aegean islands; it would be reasonable to extend this by a single year.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it seeks to improve the technical aspects of the functioning of administrative procedures at the borders of the european union, it implements and legitimises the shame directive. the report deals only with specific technical issues for a common border policy, such as common training for the staff of the different border guards, allowing exceptions during the operation of rescue services, recognising the validity of travel documents, etc. but all these technical aspects which seek to improve the present report are an improvement in the implementation of a terrible directive which criminalizes illegal immigrants within the eu and allows the detention of human beings who have committed no crime. it is because it implies the implementation of the shame directive that i have not been able to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. this report clarifies the rules decided upon when the schengen agreements establishing free movement of citizens within the european union were signed. the report proposes to develop free movement within the schengen area while supporting a rigorous framework for control and security at the external borders of the european union. it is this dual objective which led me to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. we supported the proposal as regards technical amendments, and insisted on abolishing the reporting obligation. we submitted some amendments mainly based on the recommendations by the meijers committee (legal guarantees for those trying to cross the border, for those applying for international protection). we also believed that the commission should give a prior favourable opinion before the conclusion of agreements concerning shared border crossing points. all of our amendments were supported by the rapporteur – either directly or through compromises, therefore we supported the report at the stage of the orientation vote.
in writing. − in favour. in the 2014 european elections 12 eu member states will each lose one seat and none will gain any. these reductions are needed in order to comply with the 751-seat limit set by the lisbon treaty and to make room for croatia’s meps. the draft european council decision, approved by parliament by 574 votes to 71, with 39 abstentions, leaves unchanged the redistribution of seats between member states proposed by meps on 13 march 2013. after parliament’s consent, the text still needs to be formally adopted by all eu heads of state and government at the 27-28 june summit. the proposed solution means that 12 member states – austria, belgium, bulgaria, croatia, czech republic, greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, lithuania, portugal and romania – will each lose one seat at the next european elections. the remaining three seats have to come from germany, whose share must go down from 99 seats to 96, the maximum allowed by the lisbon treaty (see table below). this solution should avoid a ‘traumatic reallocation of seats, with heavy losses for medium and small member states and huge increases for big ones’. it is also the ‘least imperfect of the possible solutions’, said lead meps rafał trzaskowski (epp, pl) and roberto gualtieri (s&d, it).
i voted in favour of this proposal, mr president, because it is essential to establish the idea that the money we spend on promoting innovation, improving the education system and lifelong vocational training, making a health and pension system sustainable so that mobility in europe is possible and, in short, maintaining a common basis for the european social model is an investment in the present and the future that we cannot do without. only then can we achieve sustainable, intelligent and inclusive development. people are the target of politics. people are the basis of knowledge and innovation. social investment is simply a bet on people and we must do much more than talk about people, we must put them at the centre of the institutions' concerns and objectives. correcting the debt yes, but at the pace that people deserve and need. but we must also give back to the financial system its instrumental role as a catalyst for growth and a servant of the real economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a formal statement against the current economic policy of austerity and seeks to promote a european discourse for an alternative to it. these kinds of resolutions lack any real binding force for the european institutions or the member states to change the course of their economic policy. we in united left are really committed to a change in economic policy that guarantees public services, ends poverty, creates jobs and takes care of the social dimension of the economic model with which we produce in europe. but our support is not limited to non-binding resolutions but is produced in all the institutions in which we are represented. i voted in favour of this resolution because it defends social investment.
in writing. − in favour. social investments generate both social and economic returns by preventing and addressing social risks. social investment focuses on public policies and human capital investment strategies which facilitate transition in changing labour markets and enable the acquisition of new skills for future job-rich sectors adapted to a sustainable economy and society.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, despite its positive aspects, it sets out absolutely neo-liberal objectives for the european union's regional policy. the report introduces interesting points on the allocation of funds to regions in transition, as well as to island regions, etc. the report also includes points of interest on the orientation of european funds towards the activity of smes because of their greater contribution to employment, but beyond this it does not include an explicit prohibition on large european companies being able to receive these funds and even goes so far as to state that these large companies are fundamental to the economic structure. that is why, despite its points of interest, i voted against this report.
in writing. − abstained. mixed result of positive and negative outcomes.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. in the case of those affected by preferences, it is significant that this report calls for 'public measures taken to support victims of widespread fraud and illegal financial practices aimed solely at preventing greater damage and restoring their rights not to be considered state aid'. for spain and cantabria this is particularly important, because thousands of families, some 15 000 in my region alone, have bought misleading preferential, high-risk financial products, believing that they were fixed-term deposits. the adoption of this report shows that competition policy is not and cannot be an obstacle to justice.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a welcome response to the sacrifices being made by a large number of european union citizens in the name of 'competitiveness'. from this point of view, the objective of being more competitive on the market is put before any kind of social right or conquest acquired thanks to the struggle of the european peoples, and it is even stated that european policies must be consistent with the objectives of the union. the report makes completely neoliberal statements, such as that the various bank bailouts have been a good move for the european economy; that the welfare of european consumers has improved in the last year; that competition in public services should be encouraged, etc. i therefore strongly reject this report and have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. − in favour. the overwhelming general lack of ambition being demonstrated by the council in its response to the crisis is of very great concern. it is worrying, furthermore, the negative influence that national electoral cycles are having on the union’s ability to take autonomous decisions. we also deplore the further postponing of all decisions on the future architecture of the emu, as well as the fact that the european council has twice delayed its anticipated decisions on the future of the emu and that it may do so once again at the next summit.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is a real insult to the unemployed young people of europe. the resolution blames young people for their unemployment rather than blaming european entrepreneurs for not being able to absorb the immense human capital that this generation has accumulated in countries like spain. the alternative is simply to improve training by adapting it to the labour market, to make contracts more flexible, to facilitate the mobility of young people, etc. the resolution, while welcoming the proposal to allocate new funds for youth employment generation in the multiannual financial framework and to put youth employment generation at the centre, is not binding on the member states and will therefore do nothing to improve the situation of young europeans who need real policies. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. i personally welcome the council recommendation of 28 february 2013 on establishing a youth guarantee. we call for the swift implementation of youth guarantee schemes in all member states, emphasise that the youth guarantee is not a job guarantee but an instrument ensuring that all unemployed eu citizens and legal residents up to the age of 25 years, and recent graduates under 30, receive a good-quality offer of employment, continued education or apprenticeship within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving formal education. youth guarantee schemes should effectively improve the situation of young people who are not in employment, education or training (neets).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for a boost to the negotiations on transparency in the european institutions. regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on public access to parliament, commission and council documents should be reviewed to assess its functioning and potential need for amendment. however, this process has reached a deadlock between the various european institutions which prevents the development of greater transparency in european policy decisions. this blockade, which is being raised by many sectors of the institutions, is in contrast to the present resolution tabled by the european parliament which calls for progress in these negotiations to increase transparency in the european union. it is because of the improvement it brings to political transparency that i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. in the adopted text, the ep reaffirms its first-reading position as adopted on 15 december 2011(4) as the starting position for negotiations and insists that an amended text, as an absolute minimum, and in accordance with the treaty requirements, should: explicitly extend the scope to all eu institutions, offices and agencies; enhance legislative transparency, including access to legislative legal opinions, whereby any use of exceptions in the legislative procedure should constitute an exemption from the general rule of legislative transparency; clarify the relationship between transparency and data protection; include the aarhus convention; consider the current broad definition of a document as a minimum basis for further development; ensure appropriate access to documents and transparency in relation to international negotiations and agreements; provide for financial transparency of eu funds and not introduce any block exemptions.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that our first duty as members of this parliament is to deplore the violence and the loss of human life and, secondly, to express our unwavering commitment to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of conscience and respect for the rights of minorities. but given these premises, i believe that the european union must act responsibly, not by encouraging radicalisation or polarization, but by presenting solutions based on dialogue, mutual understanding and respect. i think we should not overlook the importance of these events in turkey and i think the debate on this occasion is not whether we have reacted well or badly and not whether we have reacted early or late. i think that commissioner füle and the high representative have reacted well and i think that the important thing is to take into account that we cannot afford a destabilisation of turkey. turkey is a positive and active partner of the european union, which has introduced many reforms; it is a loyal ally of the west in the atlantic alliance, where it took risks in the invasion of kuwait; it is a strategic country in the black sea oil passage; and it is a country which plays an important role in the 'arab spring' conflict and has taken in more than 400 000 syrian refugees. we cannot therefore allow ourselves, mrs ashton, to be incited by the european union to destabilise the situation in turkey. i simply want to say that this conflict must be handled with a sense of responsibility, with prudence and, of course, also, as many members have said, in accordance with the democratic principles and values which we defend in our political project.
mr president, i think we should always start by expressing solidarity with those who have been reprisals and condolences to the families of the victims in these situations where intolerable violence is taking place. but the best way to show respect for the people who have taken to the streets and squares of turkey in recent weeks is probably to try to interpret what their message is, what comes out of taksim in its pluralism, in its interclass, intergenerational character. however, it seems to me that it is relatively simple to interpret that this is not the "arab spring", or "occupy wall street", or the "madrid indignados", or the violence in the suburbs of britain or france of a few years ago. it is a specific message, a very specific turkish message, from people who say very simple things and, of course, things that are difficult to achieve: that they want justice in their country to be independent, that they want the press in their country to be plural and free, that they think that in their country minorities must be recognized and protected, that they think that in their country a bipolarisation must be avoided, a confrontation for reasons of nationalist or religious authoritarianisms, which are worth as much. that is, a message that aspires to a mature and solid democracy. and this message of warning is addressed to the powers that be, to the government, to erdogan; it is also addressed, as ria oomen-ruijten said, to the opposition, which must make itself credible; and it is addressed to europe, which must act with maturity so as not to react in a contradictory way to those who want us to help them achieve their objectives without interference.
mr president, turkey is a great country, a candidate for membership of the european union, a regional power, a member of nato, europe's main trading partner, and i agree with mrs ashton that it is not the time for us to distance ourselves from turkey, but the brutal repression of citizens who protest and the reprisals against the media are not compatible with the european union. how many years have we been negotiating with turkey without opening the chapters that would have solved the problems for which citizens are now protesting - freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, in short, civil rights? these human rights chapters are, by the way, the first to be opened in any enlargement negotiations and the last to be closed. it has been so in all the other enlargements and it is not so in the case of turkey. only 13 of the 35 chapters have been opened and only one, politically irrelevant, on science and research, has been closed. only three chapters on competition, social policy and public procurement are open, and none on democratic reform and human rights. there are 18 chapters blocked by the european union and i think, mrs ashton, that you should, instead of travelling to turkey, travel to european capitals to bring the member states into line with what the european union wants, which is to consolidate the european perspective of a truly democratic turkey.
member of the commission. − mr president, i was in istanbul last week to address a conference on the future of eu-turkey relations. on the evening before the conference i walked around taksim square and gezi park and i spoke to the mostly young people gathered there. the people i saw there are not looters. they are children of turkey calling for peace, freedom and respect, simply aspiring to speak up and to be listened to. these are typical european youngsters wishing to run their own lives. at the conference i condemned the excessive use of force to silence peaceful protests and asked for those responsible to be brought to account. i conveyed the message that democracy requires debate, consultation and compromise to reach out to all sections of society. democracy is not limited to elections alone. we are at a crucial moment in eu-turkey relations, which i believe still have the potential to develop in a more constructive spirit than before. after a long three years, we are in a position to open a new negotiating chapter, and discussion among the member states is ongoing. however, for the momentum to become sustainable, we need substantive further progress, notably also through further political reforms. considering current events and the importance we all attach to supporting turkey in its reforms, it is particularly important to overcome the existing blockages on the eu side and to start negotiations on the relevant chapters – 23 and 24 on fundamental freedoms and judicial reforms, justice, freedom, security – and to do it as quickly as possible. this is as much in our genuine interest as it is in turkey’s. how come, at this moment, when we talk so much about fundamental freedoms and rights, that turkey’s minister of justice is asking me repeatedly: where is the screening report of turkey in this field that i can use for further reforms? his record of reforms is solid. how come he is asking me to provide him with the benchmarks for both opening and closing this very important chapter 23? why do we have to wait for three years to offer, not only to the authorities but also to civil society, an additional platform for interaction through a new chapter to be opened? we are talking about a lack of dialogue between the authorities and civil society. we are forgetting that the accession process itself, through each and every chapter, offers an additional platform for that dialogue, based on eu values – how you would like to ensure that the european union continues to be a benchmark for turkish reforms. i call on turkey not to give up on the values of freedom and fundamental rights and to do everything to avoid undermining the new momentum we aim to create in our relations. as the high representative cathy ashton stated, turkey as a candidate country needs to aspire to the highest possible democratic standards and practices, which would imply the protection of the rights of all turkish citizens, irrespective of the majority in parliament at a given time. such an approach should obviously also include the young people in taksim, ankara, izmir and everywhere in turkey. in the light of what is at stake, turkey needs more european engagement and, with it, more of the european union’s standards and values, not less. this is where our own credibility is also at stake – credibility through not giving up on the accession process and enlargement. it is crucial that, in the days and weeks that follow, a policy of appeasement, dialogue and compromise is implemented and that free media coverage is ensured. any approach based on confrontation and division is a source of even more serious concern, not only for turkish society but also for the european union. as i said to my interlocutors in istanbul, we are energising the accession negotiations, and progress in democracy and human rights are two sides of the same coin. one cannot work without the other. i would like to make two points in reply to richard howitt and to others. there was no disrespect shown to me by prime minister erdoğan. last week in istanbul he listened carefully to me both during the conference and in the meeting we had afterwards. secondly, i have not seen any of his comments complaining that i said something afterwards that i had not said at the meeting behind closed doors. i can assure you that i made comments about protesters and about the way the authorities are going to handle the issue and how this will be a crucial element for re-energising the accession process and finding sustainable momentum. that was the focus of our debate. the only thing i did not share with him was the text of the tweet i sent afterwards – the tweet about me being disappointed by the lost opportunity at the istanbul conference to reach out to those calling for respect and inclusive dialogue. i have 14 400 followers on my twitter account. i envy prime minister erdoğan who has 2.7 million. what i said at the end of the conference in istanbul was the following. we are bound to avoid everything that risks undermining the sustainable momentum we want to create. we are bound to succeed together. why? because no one should question the importance of stable, democratic and modern turkey for its region and for europe as a whole. (applause)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, all i can do is stand and support everything that štefan füle has said to you. we were in touch throughout; the issues and concerns have been raised by him on the ground, and by me in what i have said and in my discussions with the foreign minister. we are very clear in wanting and desiring to see the prime minister, the ministries, deal with these issues in the way that we would expect for a candidate country of the european union. we also agree that this is an important moment; it is an important moment for an important country – an important country to us, an important country in the region and an important country in the world. but it is also a challenge to us to continue to reach out and to continue with our dialogue and with our work. štefan has pointed exactly to why it is crucial to move forward; it is because of the issues that we now need to address. i hope that we can both rely on the support of this parliament to do that and to continue to work to that objective in the coming weeks and months.
the debate was closed by the submission of seven motions for resolutions, pursuant to rule 110 (2) (or rule 115 (5) as the case may be). the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by elmar brok and roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission, the council and the commission on the 2013 review of the organisation and functioning of the eeas (2012/2253 (ini)) (a7-0147/2013).
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, this recommendation taking the opportunity to congratulate the rapporteurs, elmar brok and roberto gualtieri fits in with the purpose and aim of the 2010 council decision to contribute to improving, by its revision, this decision adopted by the council of ministers. i think that a very clear first finding is that the service is fully operational and is working and i think that the merit of the high representative and her collaborators, very particularly mr vimont, must be recognised. that said, i insist that we have to frame the logic of the european external action service's activity in a legal framework, which is the council decision, which established a staff and material resources and an ambition. so the service was meant to be what it is and we can't expect miracles. i would like to make a comparison, and that is that the personal and financial resources available to the european external action service for the whole of the european union are very similar to those of a member state like denmark. the office can clearly be improved by improving coordination between the european external action service, the member states and the community institutions; by strengthening the high representative's powers through political deputies and an advisory council; by using member states' ministers in tasks entrusted to them by the high representative. a good example was the egyptian task force; and by seeking synergies between the different administrations. there is a fundamental element, which is to draw on all the experience of the diplomats of the member states, recycling them in such a way that they reason in the interests of the eu and also motivating the officials of the institutions. and in this context, mr president, the key element is the mobilization of political will so that the european union can act and speak with one voice and we can have a foreign policy that is more effective, more coherent and more visible, and for this, the member states - in order to avoid undesirable situations such as that which has occurred in the debate on syria - must understand that they have to look for their advantage, mr president, in the common advantage.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. the european parliament has always been very much aware of the need to ensure that the european union's external action is not only coordinated, but also coordinated. in general, the foreign policy of any member country is, of course, subject to the control of the national parliaments: this is not the case. and we have a very serious problem because the foreign policy services of the member states and of the european union itself overlap. it is a structure in which the european parliament should play a much more important role. we are also very far from having a coherent and united foreign and security policy - this is a reality - and it is therefore very difficult to have a foreign service which is the support of a common foreign and security policy, a security policy which, insha'allah, is a foreign policy based on disarmament, demilitarisation, cooperation and the political settlement of conflicts.
mr president, i would like to highlight two positive aspects of this recommendation by parliament: firstly, that it should encourage the avoidance of duplication with the commission and the general secretariat of the council; and secondly, that the role of the high representative, who is not ubiquitous, should be made more flexible and should be able to be replaced by her deputies or by relex commissioners. but on the other hand, in addition to these positive aspects, i think we must be more ambitious, with a european external action service that gives priority to diplomats from the member states who close their embassies for the benefit of the european union embassies. it is important to see the european external action service as a useful service which saves costs for states without reducing the guarantees for european citizens in third countries. and finally, i want to make a very serious criticism, which is that both the european external action service and the parliament's recommendation do not effectively address the problem of the gender imbalance that occurs both at the top levels of the administration with, mrs ashton, 0% of women in grades ad 16, less than 20% in grades ad 13, and less than 25% in heads of delegation, as well as in grades of assistant, with, on the contrary, 70% of secretaries being women, and i think this anomaly needs to be remedied. it is a commitment you have made and it is a policy of the european union. i regret that the ppe group rejected an amendment by us, the socialist group, in the committee on foreign affairs, which referred to a resolution of this same parliament proposing or recommending quotas at the highest levels ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to congratulate the vice-president of the commission and high representative on the excellent diplomatic work being done by the european external action service and also acknowledge that it is still a young organisation to fully assess certain aspects of its organisation and functioning. as a member of the committee on development, i welcome the fact that the vice-president of the commission and high representative has addressed the committee on development on an annual basis, which has substantially improved the communication between the european external action service and our committee. i also hope that the mid-term review will assess the added value of the eeas for the development cooperation of the european union. in particular, the quality and effectiveness of policy formulation and programming have been improved. in addition, i would encourage the eeas and the commission to continue their efforts to coordinate development cooperation policies more closely, despite the initial difficulties, and to build on the positive experience of joint development aid programming for the next programming cycle starting in 2014. finally, i would like to reiterate the need to achieve a balance of nationalities and sexes in the composition of the eeas staff.
mr president, i share the positive assessment that many members have made of the report, because it is well done and it is a good piece of work. i also share the positive assessment of the work of the special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis. it is to him that i address myself, respecting the agenda and also the competence of the high representative on human rights, to say the following. the first priority of the european union in the field of human rights should be the abolition of the death penalty in the world. today the fifth world congress against the death penalty begins in madrid, in a realistic but decisive climate, to pursue the objective in the next decade of achieving a situation in which the reference to the death penalty in a constitution is something as unusual, as inconceivable, as the reference to slavery would be. our generations can see this goal. at the moment more than two thirds of the states have abolished the death penalty in law or in practice and only 58 retainer countries remain, including two large countries: china and the united states, but which are increasingly isolated. the battle can be won if you don't slack off on the pretense that it's already half won. it is not only a battle that can be won by the discretion of diplomacy, but also by the affirmation of values with the utmost firmness. it is a barbaric, cruel and inhuman practice, not peculiar to any religion or culture. differentialism in this field is unacceptable and does not solve any problems but aggravates them. i encourage the european union and its human rights representatives to take the lead in this fight.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the group's alternate rapporteurs for their much-needed cooperation on this report, which is essentially divided into two parts: one on relations between the european union and the united states and the other with a view to the whole atlantic basin, including its southern dimension. president obama's second term should be used to strengthen the already very important relations between the european union and the united states, at a time when there is also much talk of washington's shift towards the pacific. the report calls for the forthcoming annual summit to be held as soon as possible. but in any case, the negotiations on the trade and investment agreement will be a major revitalization of the bilateral relationship. it is a historic opportunity, and one that is particularly timely, to promote growth and employment in a period of crisis. the overall impact of the programme goes beyond its bilateral significance. the report also calls for close coordination between the eu and the us on a number of global and regional issues of particular relevance: the arab spring, syria, afghanistan, the rise of china, russia, etc. it also supports the creation of a transatlantic political council as a forum for dialogue and coordination of the foreign policy of both actors and stresses the importance of the transatlantic dialogue of legislators. the report also refers to cooperation in justice and home affairs, visas, cybersecurity, the fight against terrorism, etc., while stressing the need to preserve fundamental rights and freedoms. i have had to update this bilateral part of the report by a series of short amendments which i have tabled in the last few days. the second part of the report contains a broader atlantic perspective. in an interdependent and globalised world, i believe that all the atlantic countries increasingly share common challenges and interests. there should therefore be greater cooperation between them to manage this increasingly common problem. i think the attention that the asia-pacific region is currently receiving has been a stimulus for think tanks, some governments and the european commission itself to be reflecting on the desirability of promoting this broader atlantic cooperation. and there's a new fact, too: china's growing penetration in latin america and africa. the report proposes that the european union and the united states - two key players - should study this prospect of overall atlantic cooperation, while exploring it with the other atlantic countries, i.e. first of all with latin america and the caribbean, a region with close ties to the union and the united states; we could also extend this cooperation to the african countries on the atlantic coast. in addition, given the extensive network of trade agreements that both the european union and the united states have or will soon have with several american countries, if the negotiation of the trade and investment agreement is successful, there would be a huge triangular economic space between the european union, the united states, canada and several countries in central and south america in the future. in addition, triangular cooperation would be of particular interest in other areas: climate change, development, security issues, global governance, un reform, energy, disarmament, piracy, drug trafficking and a long list of others. the latin american integration and cooperation organizations would be the instruments through which this triangular dialogue and cooperation could be carried out with these countries: celac, unasur, sica, caricom, the andean community, the pacific alliance and mercosur. in addition, account must be taken of the african countries on the atlantic coast; with them, through organizations such as ecowas or the african union, such comprehensive atlantic cooperation in several of the matters mentioned would be of interest. this part of my report offers ideas and possible lines of action for global atlantic cooperation. the atlantic brings together a very heterogeneous set of countries, with different agendas. today there may not yet be a sense of belonging to an atlantic community which brings together all the countries bordering the atlantic. i think that creating such awareness would be beneficial for the european union and the united states and i hope that this report can also contribute, modestly, to this objective.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate. i want to thank mr millán mon for his report, which is excellent in itself, but it is also interesting that in a way it is a follow-up to the report of 2009, adopted at the beginning of the first obama administration. in a rapidly changing world, where political and economic power is shifting, both the european union and the us must adapt to a new global landscape that includes the forces of globalisation, new technologies, faster communication and also new challenges to peace and prosperity, such as a global challenge like climate change. more than ever, close cooperation is needed, especially with partners that share the same values, outlook and interests as ourselves. there is a simple fact. once undisputed centres of military and economic power, the us and europe cannot face these challenges alone. the european union is thus clearly looking beyond the north atlantic to work harder to engage with the rest of the american continent and the rest of the atlantic basin, which, as you rightly point out in your report, will be an important component of our efforts. in that regard, the european union has established, and is strengthening, its ties to address the very extensive and complex global agenda with strategic partners belonging to this basin like brazil and mexico, but also canada and south africa. as you rightly emphasised, at the heart of such broader transatlantic cooperation lies our strategic partnership with the united states, based on shared values and a highly convergent worldview. sometimes our approaches can differ, but this continues to be irreplaceable. cathy ashton is in regular contact with secretary of state kerry on the major foreign policy and security challenges, and we share the view that none of these challenges can be solved by any players acting alone. efforts to reinvigorate the middle east peace process and finding a diplomatic solution to the syrian crisis are obvious examples, but there is also iran, where the eu and the us are working together to seek a solution following a dual-track approach of negotiations and targeted sanctions. we are exploring new areas of cooperation as we are beginning to broaden out our strategic engagement vis-à-vis the asia-pacific region. the european union and the united states have a major stake in the prosperity of this region as a source of future growth, and therefore in the stability on which growth depends. there is much to do together in terms of promoting rule-based approaches in the region: freedom of navigation and the peaceful resolution of maritime disputes, for example. we are working more closely with the united states on improving our energy security by promoting diversification of sources of supply and transparent global markets, as well as trying to tackle the problem of energy as a source of conflict by coordinating our approach to energy-rich, but governance-poor, nations. through joint research and better policy coordination on new technologies and energy efficiency, we aim both to boost energy security and to contribute to fighting climate change by reducing greenhouse emissions. regarding counter-terrorism, we have begun to explore ways in which we can cooperate to face emerging challenges such as cyber-security. eu-us cooperation is already excellent and, therefore, it allows us to raise our concerns if and when needed and to stress the importance of the respect of the fundamental rights of individual citizens regarding data protection. we are also in the process of obtaining our respective mandates to negotiate a ground-breaking and ambitious transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the aim is to tap the potential of further liberalising the transatlantic market in goods and services in order to create jobs and growth, and to set high standards in terms of removing regulatory barriers. the ttip will have a much broader significance than just trade and investment. it represents a reaffirmation of confidence in the transatlantic partnership. it is rooted in our common values and interests and is part of the modernisation of the transatlantic relationship to meet the challenges of the 21st century. trade negotiations can be long and difficult. as commissioner de gucht underlined here during the last session, we need to see the broader picture and put all our energy and political will behind these negotiations. the support of the european parliament is definitely an asset. this brings me back to the issue of the ‘broader atlantic’. the continued economic growth of latin america and sub-saharan africa is welcome news. however, the challenges of a growing population and increased pressure on energy, food and water resources require solutions to be found. this opens up opportunities for cooperation, and the european union has very strong expertise in a lot of areas. furthermore, as underlined in the report, we are still facing some serious security challenges in the atlantic region. in the latin american and caribbean context, the levels of violence are alarming, in particular in central america and mexico, where organised crime groups sometimes challenge and rival state structures. in this context, security and the rule of law need to be ensured. the european union, together with the united states, has been active on this. for instance, since the may 2011 lisbon symposium on dismantling transnational illicit networks, the eu and the us have been working to strengthen cooperation on fighting trafficking along the so-called ‘cocaine route’ via capacity-building projects in west africa, latin america and the caribbean, and the promotion of south-south cooperation. in close coordination with the us and canada, we are working on giving more coherence to our security cooperation in central america and the caribbean. the eu’s comprehensive approach to security challenges and crisis situations draws systematically on all of the various diplomatic, economic, humanitarian, security and development instruments at our disposal. we are cooperating closely with the united states to address the underlying causes of the security challenges we face, as well as dealing with the symptoms. in west africa, for example, we are developing ‘joint programming’ together, where we try and deliver our aid more effectively. over the years, eu-us relations have become much more about how we project our values and interests together in the world, and rather less about just ourselves. increasingly, we are pushing the boundaries and tackling new frontiers in the transatlantic relationship. i look forward to continued cooperation with the european parliament on these issues.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr millan mon, on his rigorous, well-structured and ambitious report, which puts transatlantic relations in a new perspective. a report which has also been the subject of a broad consensus within this house and which comes at a very particular moment in our calendar, at a time other than the crisis - to use the terminology of president barroso - and on the eve of the adoption by the council of the negotiating mandate for the conclusion of the ambitious trade and investment agreement between the european union and the united states. it is also an agreement, madam president, which puts on the table specific proposals, of which i shall mention one: the invitation to the president of the united states to address the house. the united states and the european union share values and interests. we cannot help but admire a country which, with 2 or 3% of the world's population, is able to produce almost a third of the world's goods and services. i think we must therefore stress, madam president, that in today's globalised world isolationism, even among the most prosperous and powerful, is an impossible dream. all the economic forecasts today point to a shift in the global economic axis from the atlantic to the pacific and the indian oceans. in this context, it is important for me to stress, as president of the european parliament's delegation to the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly and as co-president of this assembly, that latin america, commissioner, is no longer peripheral but central, and this at a time when bilateral agendas are evolving from a series of bilateral dossiers to a global agenda. i am glad, madam president, that this matter and the incorporation of transatlantic relations, which are not just a matter of two, but a matter of three or four - as the rapporteur suggests - are perfectly covered in the report, and therefore, madam president, i will end as i began: congratulating the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done.
member of the commission. − madam president, again i would like to congratulate mr millán mon on the report. i think it is a very balanced and forward-looking report, because partnership with the united states creates a lot of opportunities. i would just like to mention development cooperation, fighting insecurity and addressing nutrition. a new alliance has been created which is driven by the european union and the united states. also, somalia has seen major progress towards success, partly on account of the close cooperation of the united states and the european union. as regards addressing humanitarian issues in syria, there is also close cooperation. climate change issues were also mentioned. this is a difficult issue, but if i look at the changes made on energy efficiency issues in the united states, impressive progress has been made. there are many indications that we can deal with the ttip negotiations successfully. furthermore, we are not naive or afraid to ask difficult questions, for example, concerning the prism issue. the european commission is concerned about the possible consequences for eu citizens’ fundamental rights, including the protection of their privacy and personal data. the european commission is seeking details and clarifications on these issues from the us authorities. the vice-president of the european commission and the commissioner for justice, ms reding, is planning to address this issue at the upcoming eu-us ministerial meeting on 14 june 2013 in dublin. we are, therefore, clearly not closing our eyes when difficult questions need to be raised. as regards trade negotiations, we have discussed that also in the college. we in the college believe that one must negotiate all issues. it does not mean that we will betray our interests, but to start negotiations you need really to address all issues. i believe that if the member states give the mandate, this will give our negotiator freedom, because there is no risk that we will undermine our credibility in the negotiations by giving easy concessions. after all, we need the whole eu’s backing for the deal. so we will be facing very difficult negotiations. however, i believe that we have a chance to succeed, because there is one issue which is globally now seen as the main issue, and that is the creation of jobs. if we succeed in this ttip, we will create more jobs in europe, and the americans will create more jobs in the united states. we therefore cannot afford to fail in these negotiations.
the rapporteur, mrs lulling, has made a number of important points, and i would like to thank her for them. i think there is a very broad majority agreement in this house on the importance of relations between the european union and the united states. for me personally, it is the most important strategic relationship of the union, which also now has a historic opportunity to be deepened and developed with the future agreement on trade and investment. i think that this overall atlantic perspective, which is, so to speak, the new part of my text, has been generally well received by the speakers who have referred to it; in fact, it already had a lot of support in the committee on foreign affairs, and i very much welcome the fact that this overall perspective is also shared by commissioner piebalgs, who seems to me to consider it reasonable and who has mentioned that issues such as energy, water, security or drug trafficking should be among the topics of this possible triangular dialogue or cooperation. the economic aspect is another of the issues that will be the subject of triangular or quadriangular cooperation in the future. and i believe that in this economic and trade area the triangle could be a reality even in the near future, if the negotiations on the bilateral agreement mentioned above succeed. the european union has already concluded or will conclude agreements with mexico, canada, central america, colombia, peru and chile, and the united states is also doing the same. so, with the new agreement, that triangular perspective would be a reality to a large extent. the report stresses the need for cooperation against terrorism to be based on strict respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. we are therefore concerned about the revelations about the prism programme and that is why several groups have negotiated - and mr rouček is well aware of this, as he has referred to it - an oral amendment to express this deep concern and the wish that the next ministerial meeting on justice and home affairs, to be held on 14 june, should deal with this matter. the subject of drones, which mrs gomes mentioned, also has a place in the report and i have tabled an amendment to update this aspect in the light of the important speech by president obama on 23 may. i would like to refer to other issues that have been raised here, but i am afraid i do not have much time. some of the points raised are answered in the report itself if you read it carefully. i would like to thank all the speakers again, many of them also for their support in drafting amendments which have contributed significantly to enriching the report, and i would naturally ask them at the end to support this text and the amendments we have tabled by voting tomorrow.
madam president, commissioner, i think that all of us here today are aware of the commitment and the good work we are doing in mali with the resources we have, but you know that we have challenges ahead of us; that we have many challenges which, moreover, we share; and that we have to be vigilant about maximising the effectiveness of humanitarian aid and cooperation too; and that we are currently providing what i believe is important aid to one of the ten poorest countries in the world. the figures we have before us are not trivial: 750,000 people need immediate food assistance and 660,000 children are at risk of malnutrition. it is essential for the european union to achieve effective coordination with the other donors, and above all with the non-governmental organisations which are also working on the ground, in order to prevent thousands of people from falling into such a situation of famine. amnesty international has also found that there continue to be serious human rights violations that go unpunished - torture, executions, gruesome executions, conditions of detention and recruitment of child soldiers. every effort is small to end poverty - and you know it well - and the fear that the civilian population lives with is especially complicated in women and children. i would ask you what action you are planning to take to strengthen respect for human rights and the effectiveness of our aid.
madam president, the challenges are many, but i would like to link them, in particular, to the return of displaced persons and refugees and the return of institutional arrangements to certain areas of the country, especially the three northern regions. i'm talking about security, with capital letters, and territorial integrity. the democratization of the electoral process requires that the legitimacy and acceptance of the result be linked, and will be linked, unequivocally, to a total process, that is to say, to the whole territory and, moreover, to the participation of everyone. i say this because the present electoral system only allows the participation of 30% of those who would be entitled to vote in our western electoral systems. and if we are going there - and we must go - we must go with a measured presence, knowing exactly where we are going, avoiding unnecessary protagonism and patronage and, also, irresponsible judgments when making an assessment. it would be desirable if we could go safely, very safely, to the whole territory and not just to one part of the country.
i would like to say that i am in favour of the commission's proposal to make the european union's contribution to the peace process in afghanistan more effective. it is therefore a demand that must be met. in my group, in connection with the negotiations, we want to make it very clear that the military operation was a tremendous failure from any point of view - from the point of view of military security or from the point of view of political security itself. because we are facing a tragic balance sheet: after 12 years of war, afghanistan has become more devastated, more corrupt and more talibanised, the complete opposite of what was intended to be solved by a war that should never have occurred, which is not and was not the solution, because war should never be the solution. we will therefore insist that, should the negotiations progress, it should be made very clear what this terrible mistake was: the war in afghanistan.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, these negotiations on economic association agreements with the acp countries are not going in the right direction. and they are not on the right track after six years, probably because of the commission's insistence on forcing a process which, from the outset, has been characterized by leaving out key players such as the national parliaments. today we are discussing the ratification of the agreement with central africa - in this case, cameroon - and i do not understand why the commission, every time it comes to this house to discuss the epas, is indifferent to our reminding it that these are agreements for development and not for free trade. we therefore call on the commission and the acp countries to get involved and to continue to work towards regional agreements that promote regional development.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, today we will vote on a proposal which was created to revise the 2003 directive on the re-use of public sector information. rules and practices around the re-use of public sector information differ between the new member states and some of them have still not modified their law. only a harmonised set of ambitious rules can enable the market to take full advantage of the commercial and non-commercial opportunities that the re-use of public data represents. opening up governmental data for re-use can have major benefits for citizens, businesses, society and for the governments themselves. let me state the main modifications in the report. with this new proposal, we extend the scope to museums, archives and libraries. we also limit the maximum charge that public sector bodies can apply to the marginal cost of disseminating the information. we try to foster the use of machine-readable and open formats where possible, to accelerate the transfer and use of information. the exclusive arrangement for the digitisation of documents held by cultural institutions will not in general exceed ten years, with a regular review in the following years, preventing open-ended contracts. last, but not least, the new ruling will introduce an impartial body whose decision will be binding on the public sector body concerned. this body should have the appropriate level of expertise and will review the decision on re-use. i would like to finish with some data. the eu public sector information market for digital content products and services was estimated to be worth eur 28 billion in 2008. opening up data to access has the potential to add eur 40 billion per year in revenue. the proposed revision aims to correct differences arising among member states, improve access and ensure effective cross-border use of public sector data, kick-starting the development of new services based on novel ways to combine and make use of such information to stimulate economic growth, which will help us a lot, especially nowadays. i would like to finish by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for the good job they did.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr kalfin, for his excellent work. we all know the added value of transferring and reusing public sector information to drive innovative value-added production. and not only that, but also, as has been said, there is a great economic potential behind the reuse of this information. i would remind you that the direct and indirect overall economic benefits of this activity are estimated at eur 140 billion across the european union. the 2003 directive on the re-use of public sector information introduced a common legal framework governing the provision of information by public bodies, as well as measures to remove obstacles to the dissemination of information. ten years later, the kalfin report amends this directive, improving transparency and efficiency in the transfer of public sector information. given the importance of public information, not only for promoting innovation but also for improving the economic sector, i think it is vital to approve this report.
madam president, the reuse of public sector data is part of an information society for all and adds value by generating more valuable recycled information: with this we can create maps, projects, networks. the report, which improves on the commission's report, is based on security, safekeeping, use and transparency, as well as on limiting business; it sets out objectives: the right to information, accessibility and internalization. access to public sector information is a fundamental right, something that has been taken away from the greek people by the closure of public television. and the same is true in the valencian community (spain), where mass layoffs of public employees are also curtailing democracy itself.
madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleagues on the committee, and in particular mr kaczmarek, on the excellent report we are voting on this afternoon. the message we are sending from this parliament today to the commission, the member states and the world is clear: we have not failed. it is true that we will not be able to meet many of the commitments in the year and a half that remains, but millions of people who have overcome the disease, millions of people who are entering schools or who are no longer hungry know that the commitment has borne fruit. but, as always, we can do more and better. the debates that are taking place today at international level about the future of cooperation, framed in the crisis, can affect the way we fight poverty, and cooperation: how we have designed it and what we want to do in it in the future. a future, that of development cooperation, which involves making the process more universal and more participatory, especially with the developed countries; maintaining the 0.7; for an agenda that includes eradicating inequality, hunger, imposing sustainability and ensuring access to clean water and health, including sexual and reproductive health, as well as education to which millions of people still do not have access. what we have ahead of us is a huge challenge and a huge responsibility, and again the european union must demonstrate its leadership in this process, including its responsibility to not only value middle-income countries for their growth, but also for other indicators such as vulnerability and inequality, remembering that 70 percent of the poor live in those countries.
madam president, commissioner, this year the united nations will review the millennium development goals and their results, and will begin to consider new cooperation for the period after 2015. when the millennium declaration was adopted in 2000, we could not have imagined that the landscape would change so much: at the moment it is very difficult for many countries to maintain their level of development cooperation due to the crisis they are going through. we must therefore propose new forms of development aid with clear, coherent and integrated objectives. eradicating poverty must be the highest priority. it is essential that the post-2015 agenda focuses on improving the quality of life of the most disadvantaged populations, with particular attention to access to safe drinking water, nutrition, health and education. private initiative also needs to be supported, as we need to help developing countries to move forward on their own. initiatives such as micro-credit are very useful in promoting local development, and so is support for smes, which are also the main engine of economic growth. finally, i would like to remind you that today, more than ever, it is essential to carry out a thorough monitoring of aid to ensure that the funds we allocate to cooperation are properly managed and thus maximise their impact. i would not like to end without congratulating mr kaczmarek on his excellent report.
madam president, can we continue to tolerate in the world that half the world's population lives in the indignity of poverty? can we continue to put up with children dying of hunger? can we continue to endure the failure of access to education, of equal rights to health, to water, to food? can we continue to endure deaths from aids without access to medicines? it is also in our european conscience to have a global agenda, the agenda of the millennium goals, challenges in peace, the environment, human rights, gender equality and democracy, leaving aside the hypocrisy we have translated into european trade agreements. this report is a call for indifference, because the millennium development goals are only achievable if the rich countries commit themselves to a better distribution of the world's wealth with social justice. because it is immoral that two-thirds of the developing countries spend more on paying off their foreign debt than on basic services. it is immoral for european countries to reduce their contributions to the millennium development goals under the pretext of the crisis, while investing in armaments and worrying about the health of the financial system.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this is an oral amendment which we have negotiated with various groups. it consists essentially in the insertion of two new sentences in paragraph 8 after the first two sentences. the amendment is on the english voting list, but i shall read the text. is deeply concerned by recent revelations on the us surveillance and data gathering operations under the prism programme, and their implications for the protection of eu citizens' civil liberties; calls on the commission and the council to raise the issue at the forthcoming jha eu-us ministerial meeting on 14 june; and in the next sentence, in addition, the word welcomes is replaced by notes.
mr president, this report aims to ensure that states, regions and beneficiaries have guarantees and legal certainty when they grant state aid to the real economy. it also considers the special situation created by the proximity of regions with different coverage possibilities. with these rules, the basque country would not have been unfairly punished by the so-called 'tax holidays'. because the regions bordering the neighbouring state enjoyed the same measures to stimulate investment that we are using to deal with two problems: an industrial crisis and the effects of terrorism on economic activity. nor has it been taken into account that the aid improved industrial activity. the report also emphasizes the need to offer special and differentiated treatment to the outermost regions such as the canary islands. the insularity, remoteness, size of the territory, its fragmentation and other circumstances affecting these areas mean that the status of octs is considered as an independent criterion for the territorial coverage of regional state aid in the coming years.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it seeks to deepen the liberalization of trade relations with central africa. during centuries of colonization, africa has exported both its natural resources and its own population to the european powers, leaving a continent that has been expropriated of its economic development to boost europe's. this report seeks to promote trade with europe as a means of growth in the region, but it is nothing more than a new neo-colonial offensive which seeks to reinforce the dependence of the central african economies on the european common market. the export of natural resources and agricultural products does not necessarily imply real economic development and reinforces inequality in these economies. in view of the fact that this agreement can only strengthen the eu's imperialist role in this region of the african continent, i have decided to vote against it, as has my group in this parliament.
in writing. − against. greens share the very critical view on epas largely defended by acp countries and civil society organisations. briefly: the acp region needs very different agreements, which ensure sustainable development within a context of peace, stability, security, solidarity, respect for human rights and the development of the region as a whole, and do not unilaterally seek profits in exploitable areas such as mining or agrobusiness, including for agrofuels. in the particular case of cameroon, greens point at four particular drawbacks: first, inside cameroon, parts of the executive and the legislative branches are not convinced of the benefits of this interim epa. second, the central african region members heavily criticise cameroon for breaking solidarity. presumably, the iepa will further destabilise the region. third, a number of the central african region members are highly unstable themselves (the countries are: cameroon, central african republic, chad, congo, democratic republic of congo (drc), equatorial guinea, gabon, são tomé and principe). fourth, the iepa contains provisions which have already been eliminated from the full epa pattern, after heavy criticism, in particular the standstill clause, export restriction provisions, including quantitative ones, and safeguard provisions. this creates inconsistencies in the event of transition from the iepa to the epa.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it strongly expresses its rejection of those parts of the association agreement with the countries of asia, the caribbean and the pacific which are not in line with the views expressed by the european parliament or with the law of the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the inclusion of these provisions in the agreement is essential to ensure full respect for individual freedoms in the acp countries and enhances aspects of the agreement which can serve to improve the defence of discriminated persons in these countries. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it conveys great concern that the negotiations to strengthen the principle of non-negotiable human rights clauses have failed dramatically, despite successive calls by the european parliament for eu agreements to include binding non-negotiable human rights clauses. the non-discrimination clause in the political dialogue did not deserve to be rewritten to reflect eu values. the acp side refused the commission's interpretation and inclusion of sexual orientation and the declaration of the 21st session of the acp parliamentary assembly on the peaceful coexistence of religions and the importance attached to the phenomenon of homosexuality in the acp partnership. it is worrying that homosexuality is still a crime in 38 acp countries, including 5 where the death penalty can be applied. silence implies tacit acceptance of this legislation, and there can be no political dialogue in the future on this subject if it is not explicitly addressed in the cotonou agreement, which is the frame of reference for many other agreements. i regret that the commission has not insisted more during the negotiations and that political dialogue is rendered useless as a diplomatic tool for promoting good governance, democracy, transparency and human rights.
in writing. − in favour. we share the view of the rapporteur, who expresses strong reservations with parts of the agreement which do not reflect the position of the european parliament and the values of the european union. however we believe, as he does, that consent should be given to the agreement in order to offer leverage to the commission and the eeas in the two years preceding the third revision. we must insist that the unsatisfactory clauses, including article 8(4), must be revised accordingly during the third revision of the agreement, in conformity with our treaties and values. the eu needs to take a more development-friendly and human-rights-based approach in future international negotiations, taking into account the human development of the citizens of these countries. we hope such an approach will be mutually beneficial.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces very interesting aspects which must be taken into account when understanding the problems of the media sector. the report introduces fundamental issues, such as the problems that the concentration of ownership of the different media produces on freedom of expression, and introduces issues related to the need for pluralism and independence in the media as a way of guaranteeing this fundamental human right, and insists on the danger that media empires pose an obstacle to such pluralism. the report states that the member states must give priority to press freedom both outside and within their borders. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. governments have the primary responsibility for guaranteeing and protecting freedom of the press and media. they also have the primary responsibility for hampering freedom of the press and media and, in the worst cases, are increasingly resorting to legal pressures in order to restrict that freedom, e.g. through the abuse of anti-terrorism or anti-extremism legislation and laws on national security, treason or subversion. a balance between national security issues and freedom of information needs to be struck in order to prevent abuses and guarantee the independence of the press and media. media empires owned by politicians are sometimes empowered to carry out misinformation campaigns. it is essential that the press and the media can operate independently and free of pressure through political and financial means.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it encourages an improvement in access to data and information produced by all the institutions of the public administration. data produced by public administration at all levels is the main source of information on the implementation and evaluation of all policies carried out by a state. increasing access to databases means that available information on the effects of public policies can be made available to the public. our position on the transparency of institutions is very clear, transparency should not only be understood as a gift to citizens, but it is one of the main ways to include all people in political control and participation. access to this kind of information is the first step in engaging citizens in politics, so that they can know what public institutions are really doing and have an opinion on it. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this text has answered some of our questions about the availability of public data, both in terms of the dissemination of knowledge and data protection. this amendment to the directive takes account of technological advances and citizens' expectations, in particular the making available of documents by cultural institutions through digital systems that can be used by the greatest number of european citizens. as a former teacher, i can only rejoice at such advances that expand the possibilities of access to knowledge for all. i therefore gladly voted for this text.
in writing. − against. we expected amendment 56 would be defeated, at least in its parts 2nd and 3rd (article 2 (6b) (new), directive 2003/98/ec), and from ‘both the format’ to ‘open standards’. as this remained, we had to vote against.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it calls for the acceleration of the undemocratic reform of the european financial system. the resolution is based on the firm belief that only through sound financial markets can economic growth be generated when we see that the austerity policy that this implies is destroying the economies of the southern european member states. it also claims that the council is blocking all these reforms affecting the financial sector and preventing the countries of the union from being able to grow. this unthinkable call by many members of the european parliament to squander the last hopes of generating economic growth in order to guarantee the solvency of the financial sector is a real act of disloyalty on the part of these representatives towards their people. it is for all the reasons i have just given that i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. we need to complete first readings on at least all the commission proposals on financial services that are currently on the table before the term comes to an end in spring 2014. in the interests of further enhancing the efficiency and robustness of the union’s financial markets as quickly as possible, the pending commission proposals on financial services must be adopted swiftly, thus avoiding delays in the entry into force of the relevant legislation.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this resolution because it does not take a firm stand on the side of the turkish people, who have suffered the criminal repression which we have seen in many media. the resolution includes many points that i share about erdogan's actions and the brutality of the police interventions, as well as condolences to the families of the dead protesters. however, the resolution seeks to legitimize president gül and deputy prime minister arinç in a clear take-up to help turkish political institutions. the eu cannot teach lessons in cases like these when we have seen brutal repressive actions in spain, greece, ireland, germany, italy and many other member states which have had no impact whatsoever on the european institutions. that is why i have taken a position against this resolution.
in writing. the spanish delegation of the epp group expresses its rejection of the disproportionate use of violence and its regret at the deaths in turkey, reiterating its unwavering commitment to freedom of expression, demonstration, opinion, press and conscience and to full respect for the rights of minorities. at the same time, it considered that the european union should promote solutions based on dialogue, understanding, tolerance, the rule of law, the rule of law and strict respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. it considers turkey to be a positive partner of the european union, a loyal ally within the atlantic alliance and a key player in the arab spring process, while recognising the progress and reforms that have taken place in the country in recent years, in the context of its eu candidacy. for the reasons set out above, the spanish delegation of the epp group would have preferred that the adopted resolution had adhered to the terms of the resolution tabled by the epp group, as it reflected in a more balanced way the positions it defends.
in writing. - i voted yes. in adopting this resolution, parliament stresses that protesters are increasingly expressing concern about the 'visible lack of representation of minority voices' and lifestyle regulation. in this context, it reminded turkey that in a pluralistic and inclusive democracy all citizens must feel represented and that the majority has the responsibility to include the opposition and civil society in the decision-making process. the organization of peaceful and legitimate demonstrations is a testament to the vitality of turkish civil society. turkey should therefore be reminded of the importance of continued efforts to improve its democratic institutions, the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms. parliament also expressed concern at the deterioration of press freedom, certain censorship measures and the increasing self-censorship of the turkish media, including on the internet. it also stresses that the mainstream media in turkey have remained silent in the face of the demonstrations and that twitter users have been detained.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it introduces many aspects which seek to increase the militarization of the european external action service. the rapporteur has put forward all sorts of initiatives which allow for a deepening of the imperialist and neo-colonial role which the eeas is playing in the interests of the ruling classes of the member states. the report sets out the civil-military partnership in the work it carries out and a progressive introduction of security and defence objectives in its operation. the commission is also proposing to strengthen the role of the vice-president/high representative in her powers to continue to act as the european union's joint voice vis-à-vis third countries. it is because of the consequences of this development of the eeas that i have voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the text addresses some recommendation to the high representative/vice president, the council and the commission, bearing in mind that there has been good progress in setting up the eeas but that more can be achieved in terms of synergy and coordination between institutions, as well as political leadership and visibility, due to the opportunities created by the combination of the roles of high representative, vice-president of the commission and chair of the foreign affairs council, and by strengthening the instrumental nature of the service.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report, despite sharing much of its content, because it is marginal on certain issues and does not extend the requirements to third countries to the member states of the union themselves. the report seeks to demand aspects of religious freedom and secularism from third countries with which the eu is negotiating. however, the european union does not guarantee the same principles contained in the report within the member states, with flagrant cases such as spain, where many unconventional religious acts have been banned. this report is a product of profound cynicism and it is a shame that the eeas is demanding from third countries what the european union itself does not fulfil. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. − against. among other things, the inclusion of the paragraph on the right to conscientious objection, as it is drafted, poses a problem for us. it simply goes too far. it says the following: ‘the guidelines should include the right to conscientious objection to military service as a legitimate exercise of the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; the eu should call on states with a system of compulsory military service to allow for an alternative service of a non-combatant or civilian character, in the public interest and not of a punitive nature, and to refrain from punishing, including through prison sentences, conscientious objectors for failure to perform military service; the guidelines should also include the right to well-defined conscientious objection as a legitimate exercise of the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion in relation to other morally sensitive matters’.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is again a deepening of the partnership between the european union and the usa which will have a strong impact not only on european citizens but also on the rest of the world. the report contains some truly sinister aspects which must be taken into account in the forthcoming negotiations between the two blocs, such as the cooperation between the two in supplying arms to the syrian opposition and in monitoring the reconstruction of mali. although it includes some important aspects such as the debate on drones or greenhouse gas emissions, it seems to be an unacceptable division of military control of the world worthy of the berlin conference. it also includes many other aspects which i consider negative, such as cooperation on terrorism, cybersecurity, etc., which put the fundamental freedoms of europeans at risk. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − abstention. no surprises on the votes, and no substantial changes except for an oral amendment to the report on a broader transatlantic partnership expressing deep concern at the us prism surveillance programme. text is simply not satisfactory.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it says that it welcomes the french intervention in that country. my group has tried to introduce amendments to allow us to vote on a document which would serve the people of malines, but the present document has been seen as a genuine legitimization of criminal french imperialism in that country. it has succeeded in introducing points of interest such as collaboration with the mnla in the country's transition, but nevertheless recognizes as legitimate the coup government that has been controlling the country since last year. we have tried to change the meaning of the original text presented, but most of it has retained the original neocolonial and interventionist meaning. that is why i have had to vote against this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the text supports a malian-led political process enabling the country to achieve long-term political stability and economic prosperity. it is important to lead an inclusive national dialogue, and to promote the reconciliation process, in the effort to reach a genuine and democratic political solution to the country’s recurrent crisis. in this context, the establishment of a commission for national dialogue and reconciliation is welcomed. we hope that it is rapidly made operational. the fact that a woman and a tuareg are vice-presidents of this commission is perceived as a sign of a commitment to inclusiveness and plurality in the political process.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it seeks to affirm and legitimize the normality of afghanistan, which is still in open conflict. during 2012, tens of thousands of afghan civilians died from indirect consequences of the war: displacement, hunger, lack of medical treatment, disease and crime. despite various announcements of the withdrawal of foreign troops, 100,000 soldiers remain in afghanistan. this gives us a picture of a country in a state of normality which can establish fully sovereign negotiations with countries which maintain military forces on its territory. the european parliament should be informed about the bilateral negotiations between the eu and afghanistan. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − abstention. it is a very critical report. many things are being done badly in afganistan. the eu is following too much us strategic aims for a military solution, and should seek new broader partnership with people.
in writing. − in favour. a coordinated and coherent eu position on the post-2015 development framework is absolutely vital, taking into consideration the preparatory process of the next un general assembly special event, otherwise there might be a serious risk of faltering momentum. as the un secretary-general ban ki-moon said ‘achieving the mdgs by 2015 is challenging but possible’. the current economic crises besetting much of the developed world must not be allowed to decelerate the progress that has been made. we should build on the successes which have been achieved so far. the eu needs to reach a coherent position, building on the mdgs’ framework and future outcomes on sdgs. the report supports an accountable, comprehensive post-2015 framework, which will be based on principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and policy coherence for development, with the objective of creating a just and sustainable world in which every human being can achieve their rights and live free from poverty.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, my group is concerned as the most about the human rights situation in the world and human rights in russia, particularly with regard to the classification of ngos as foreign agents; we are concerned about political pluralism and the treatment of opponents, and about unfair trials, such as the magnitsky case or the politkovskaya case, and we are very concerned about legislation on homosexual propaganda. but we do not believe that the adoption or the recurrent presentation in this parliament of emergency resolutions on russia is the most effective way to improve the human rights situation in russia. we believe that we should consolidate the political dialogue with russia and use the summits to talk about human rights, while we deal in this house, in the field of human rights, with many countries, many situations and many human rights defenders who do not receive the attention that russia receives in a recurrent way and which has really lost all its effectiveness.
mr president, the situation in russia is symptomatic of the systemic problem with regard to the rule of law and human rights, characterised, inter alia, by a repressive political climate, curtailment of fundamental liberties and the gradual erosion of independent civil society. particularly worrisome, for some of us, is the fact that federal legislation has been adopted on ‘homosexual propaganda’, which will increase discrimination and violence against lbgti individuals. what is even more difficult to understand is the fact that the federal authorities have done nothing to stop this discriminatory legislation banning this type of so-called ‘propaganda’. this is why i would like to have in the text that we are going to vote a specific request to urge the duma to cease the consideration of any laws of this type. unfortunately this has not been included, but i still think a request to rethink the way it has been done so far is important.
the fight against the persecution of minorities is at the heart of my group's human rights agenda. that is why we insist on the need for an international investigation into crimes against humanity committed against the rohingya muslims. we believe that the official investigation has been disappointing because it does not recognize the rohingya as a minority, because it does not identify those responsible for the persecution and human rights violations against the rohingya and because it proposes a kind of apartheid that is unacceptable. the burmese authorities should cooperate with the un rapporteur on human rights in burma. and all discrimination and restrictions on the movement of the rohingya must cease. the rohingya must be able to access full citizenship and this law which is envisaged to exclude them from burmese citizenship should not be enacted. humanitarian agencies must have full access to the needy people of rakhine state, and we don't say that, international law says that.
mr president, the oral amendment concerns the resolution on the rule of law in russia. i don't think it's a controversial amendment, but it's not a very controversial one. the word 'implement' in paragraph 18 should be replaced by 'adopt'. i hope that's okay.
if that's the german version, it would be correct. in english the difference would be between implement and adopt. implement, which means to execute, should be replaced by the word adopt. it should be to adopt the eu foreign affairs council's conclusions instead of to implement the eu foreign affairs council's conclusions. that's all.
the catastrophes which could have been avoided in europe, as one of my colleagues has just said, are reminiscent of the prestige, of that accident off the coast of galicia, which is still being tried in a coruña ten years later. last 25 june, as you know, mr simpson, was international maritime day. today we are discussing in this parliament an important report which helps to improve the quality of life of seafarers, maritime safety and the fight against poor quality ships, which are unacceptable in terms of maritime safety. strengthening all maritime safety safeguards and controls on europe's coast is a necessity to avoid social dumping, but there is still a lack of incentive because not all 28 member states have ratified this legislation. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which i am sure will be very helpful.
mr president, i think we must admit that in the committee on transport we have not succeeded in clearly improving the text which the commission had presented to us, at least in two very important respects. and while we are in the midst of a campaign to reduce road deaths by 50% and to reduce serious injuries by 40%, the text voted in the committee on transport has reduced the frequency of periodic inspections of motor vehicles from one year to two - i understand that frequency is important, not just quality, and even more so in the case of a current crisis - and has made it not mandatory to apply the itv to motorcycles and large-cylinder motorcycles. i understand that in 2009 over two thousand motorists died, representing 17 per cent of road deaths, while motorists account for only a share of two per cent of the total kilometres travelled. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the matter. we have therefore tabled an amendment to bring back the compulsory itv for large-cylinder motorcycles and, subsequently, for motorcycles. we believe that the fact that there are more and more motorists and that more and more motorcycles are used - even in place of cars, because they mean an economy or sometimes because of problems in large cities - does not mean that we should leave these users in a worse situation. if we want to improve cars, we must also improve motorcycles.
mr president, it is absurd to seek reindustrialisation and to encourage industrial closures, and also to talk about competition and to give in to industries outside europe. if any financing in the shipping sector is to be corrected - as was already done in 2011 - it should never be done by mortgaging the future of an activity that we continue to bet on. the commission must not promote poverty and unemployment but activity, dynamism and work. be careful, europe! spain and its ministry of finance are also very careful in implementing community resolutions. the work of the shipyards, past and future, must be preserved without any risk of sub-contracting for alleged community failures.
mr president, galmed is a galvanising plant of the multinational thyssen located in sagunto (spain). it has a staff of 165 and it's closing. the arguments used by the group's leadership are rather dubious and raise many questions. one is that the company is profitable and the results are positive, but it is shifting its activity to germany, namely to the westphalia-rhine area. it is a market share between two big players, thyssen and arcelor. finally, although thyssen has received eu r & d & i funding for its subsidiary galmed, it is now closed. the commission has just approved a steel action plan. it provides for specific measures. however, this measure is a contradiction. we are talking about 165 people, 165 families, a county, a region. galmed has already communicated the opening of consultations and the closing. what action will the commission take in the face of this outrage, the outrage against employment and the credibility of europe?
mr president, the future of 87 000 families and the efforts of hundreds of companies and thousands of great professionals do not deserve the decision announced on tax lease. if confirmed, shipbuilding will disappear in the basque country and spain, and with it employment, competitiveness and innovation throughout europe. a controversial proposal, because the former competition commissioner, nelie kroes, wrote on 9 march 2009 that the tax lease was legal; unfair, because in a case similar to the french one, europe considered that legal certainty and legitimate trust justified the non-repayment of aid; anti-european because social and environmental dumping and public aid that harms free competition are not in bilbao or vigo, but in southeast asia. i therefore call on the commission, echoing the concern i expressed to the industry on friday, to reject this sanction on 17 december and to make it what all european shipbuilding needs: protection against unfair external competition for an industry which must be strategic and which can continue to provide jobs and innovation by 2020.
mr president, you, commissioner, are certainly not following this matter. the commission has written a letter to the spanish government, at the latter's request, to draw the attention of the government of my autonomous community, andalusia, to the draft law now under discussion to ensure the social function of housing. we find it miserable that the european commission has taken up this matter. it is one thing for the political quarrels in my own country to be fought, and quite another for the commission to interfere in our debate by questioning a measure which makes it possible for the temporary use, for three years, of bank-owned housing for vulnerable families and women victims of violence and with tacit agreement between the parties. how is it possible that they have not said a word about the errors and failures of our financial and mortgage market, the abusive clauses, the costs of services, and now they are coming to prey on vulnerable families and the weakest women? is this not a disgrace to the european commission? don't you think you should have written many letters before and never made this mistake? do you really have no political sensitivity to what is happening to so many families and so many people in my country and in my autonomous community?
mr president, the private shipping sector in spain is at risk of going under if on the 17th the commission confirms mr almunia's decision to declare the aid under the tax lease scheme illegal. i am convinced that there is sufficient scope and sound legal arguments for a reasonable decision to be taken, which shows that the law and its interpretation are at the service of justice and common sense, and not the other way around. nineteen shipyards may close, 87,000 workers, go on strike. and this is the view of the companies, the unions and the governments of the regions concerned. it is wrong to declare such aid illegal on the grounds that it affects neither the shipyards nor the banks. it means opening the lawsuit box and closing the business box. without funding, without investors, without ship owners, the shipyards will close. in europe, 3.8 million jobs have already been lost in the industrial sector. the decision, as announced by mr almunia, will increase this dramatic figure even further.
mr president, the tax lease system is compatible with european competition law. the approval of the new spanish system and the protection of shipyards against the clauses for claiming aid is a good starting point for the decision which the commission is due to take shortly on the application of the old spanish tax lease system to shipbuilding, a vital sector for the economy and employment in my country. the current consultation process should allow for a decision that safeguards competition rather than eliminates it and contributes to the european objectives of sustaining growth and jobs. the union must respect the legitimate expectations and legal certainty of individuals on the basis of an officially published tax scheme. if the commission, as the guardian of legality, did not have any elements for the formal opening of a file between 2002 and 2011, it cannot demand a different standard from the operators who have used it, much less draw unfavourable consequences for them from proceedings with other member states to which they have not been party.
mr president, marta zabala, a 33-year-old woman, was travelling from bilbao to madrid in spain. she has reduced mobility - she is in a wheelchair - and a company, the second spanish airline in terms of ticketing, denied her boarding because she was not accompanied, by misinterpreting the 2006 regulation of this parliament, namely article 4 (1) of the regulation on the rights of disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility in air transport. this interpretation is clearly wrong, because the prevailing principle and the spirit of the whole european union is that of non-discrimination and that anyone, even if he has reduced mobility, can go and walk, and also travel, throughout the union. this is clearly discrimination and a trick to discriminate, confusing safety with comfort. the companies abuse this possibility of requiring an escort, forcing the second person to pay the full price of his ticket. that is why i am making a request to the commission. since you have said and announced that you are reviewing all the regulations on air transport, i would point out to the commission that it is time to clarify this article 4 of the regulation, so that a similar case does not happen again. it is also a call to airlines to abandon immediately these bad practices, which call into question the principle of non-discrimination.
mr president, i thank mrs patrizia toia for this report on the resilience of cooperatives in the face of the crisis. cooperatives are a success and it is because of their governance model by democratic management and direct participation, by profit sharing, by education, training and information as the basis of management; because it is rooted in the communities by making social cohesion and territorial cohesion; by a long-term management approach that gives a more sustainable territorial economy. and they're also innovative, because they create new sectors: social services, healthcare, digital, public interest. the multiannual financial framework should support cooperatives and enable them to access credit, not cut it, not stifle it. this commission, the council and the member states must work for sustainable and social growth. this report goes that way.
mr president, mr president of the council and mr president of the european commission, allow me to express my indignation, with the greatest respect but also with the greatest sincerity, because i am so 'not only disappointed' with the results of the last council. mr van rompuy, i do not know a single spanish or belgian or any other europeanist who can say today, as you do, that we are on the right track. on the contrary, there is a division of opinion. some think that the council has been totally indifferent; others think that it has been totally negative in relation to economic recovery, job creation, the building of a more democratic europe. there is total unanimity in the opinion that we are wrong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he hasn't brought us the social pillar. he's not here, and he's not expected. so, gentlemen, the disappointment is profound. not among people who seek confrontation or revolution, but among those who believe that europe is more than a free trade area. an indignation at what they have done in their recommendations to the member states (more austerity and nothing new with regard to growth) and also at what they have not done. they have done nothing to increase the democratic content of the european project, they have done nothing to give us back the europe of hope, the europe of cohesion, of social justice, the europe of a community of values. you are very wrong, gentlemen, and what is worse is that you are leading europe into a dead end.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, the february european council was a great disappointment to us, and parliament had to do its utmost to correct the situation somewhat. i would like to thank alain lamassoure for his work on this. but i'm warning you. you are not yet at the social europe meeting. with the youth employment initiative, you are sending a signal to the heads of state and government to mobilize. but you know how this phenomenon of youth unemployment is accelerating. today, there are 10% of unemployed in europe, but 23.5% of young people are unemployed. we're desperate for the young. secondly, since 2008, youth unemployment has been accelerating and has increased by a factor of 2. there is one point on which i would suggest you reconsider your view of things. this youth employment initiative targets young people aged 15 to 25. but think about it, with the crisis, young people are studying longer. we have more and more young graduates between 25 and 30 who are unemployed. if we go from 15 to 30 years old, we double the number of young unemployed. you can't give up on this generation of 25-30 year olds. you can't just leave them. there is a second point on which i would ask you to review your copy. these are regions with 25% of young unemployed. you must introduce a dynamic vision of the evolution of this youth unemployment. you have to introduce a vision of young people leaving for other regions. you will only ensure the effectiveness of this policy if you have this dynamic vision. you're always chasing after reality. we ask you to face reality, really!
i simply want to say, mr president, mr van rompuy, mr barroso, that for us the european council is the confirmation that a new agenda of priorities is being set up, and that they are certainly moving in the right direction, and i congratulate them on that. because the european union must in the short term face two particularly dramatic problems: first, unemployment - and especially youth unemployment - and secondly, the fragmentation of financial markets. the summit is therefore, in the light of its powers, showing concern about youth unemployment, which has not yet occurred, and for which eur 8 billion has been allocated. it is not a panacea, of course, but it is a step in the right direction. it is also a good thing that in spain today, in june, there are more than 125 000 fewer unemployed. it's going in the right direction, it's one more step in the right direction. and we also welcome the measures that are being taken to avoid the fragmentation of financial markets, and that will be good for small and mediumsized enterprises and also for the european union, because you cannot punish certain enterprises on the basis of their geographical location. in short, it is clear that much progress is needed in the european union: in the banking union, in the system of institutional architecture of the european union, in supervision, in the direct recapitalisation of banks, in the single resolution mechanism, in the common resolution fund. but you are right in that you are pursuing the agenda of good governance on the problems that really concern europeans.
you will all understand that, among other things, because of my sense of history, which i share with mr pöttering, i am very happy and very excited to be able to give the floor to the first croatian colleague in the history of the european parliament to speak in the plenary. i am very excited to give the floor to my friend andrej plenković to speak, also on behalf of his people. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i agree with mr van rompuy that we are taking steps, without any surprises, to consolidate a genuine economic and monetary union. the crisis has been decisive in achieving these advances, but its urgencies require us to be more swift and decisive in matters such as the fight against poverty, the recovery of credit or programmes for the revival and creation of employment, especially in the youth field, more growth policies, adapting fiscal consolidation to economic conditions, considering project bonds to be issued by the eib, as well as other types of bonds to launch programmes for micro-enterprises, workers and families, and also to promote r & d & i projects. i would also ask you not to forget that, as mr barroso has said, recovery is just beginning and requires a coordinated effort by the member states. i therefore encourage the commission to prevent... (the president cut the speaker off)
thank you joão and congratulations to the interpreters for their work.
no, you are wrong, mr cohn-bendit, it is not catch the list, it is catch the eye.
no, i don't have a list. i mean, i got a list, but i got a catch the eye. what we cannot do is to interrupt each time someone wishes to intervene in the middle of the debate because then we would never finish. i thank you, mr cohn-bendit. in any case, i take note of your remark.
mr president, as usual in these years of crisis, the european council is reacting to the trampoline, as is shown by the decisions taken on the banking union, which is progressing at an exasperatingly slow pace. as regards the budget for the next seven years, we are starting from a hard reality, an amount of expenditure that is at 2008 levels, but which is explainable by two inextricable reasons: the fiscal crisis in almost all the member states and the logic of the union's revenue, which is more in line with national interests than with the general good of the community. the question is whether the european union can be a real partner in the development of the single currency. but we also have good news for the budget: revision of figures, flexibility for payments and commitments, support for youth employment and, finally, the possibility of reforming own resources.
mr president, mr barroso, we are talking today about policies focused on employment, policies to combat the crisis, policies to combat youth unemployment. on 17 april the college of commissioners will take a strategic decision on the shipping sector in galicia, the basque country and asturias. a strategic decision which is also in the multiannual financial framework because it is industrial policies, to combat unemployment and we in this parliament are asking you, and this will be the opportunity before this meeting of the college of commissioners, to take into account the shipping sector and this possible fine for the tax lease system which will leave more than 30 000 families without jobs.
thank you, mrs miranda. i am sure that mr barroso understood you perfectly in your version of the portuguese text.
president of the commission. − mr president, regarding the european council issues, the question that was directed to me was about what the european union has been doing regarding the implementation of the growth compact. before the european council i sent to all heads of state and government, and also to the european parliament through its president, a very clear and transparent report on the implementation of the growth compact, where i signalled, in very clear terms, what has been done, what has not been done and what is in the process of being completed. i invite all of you – those who have not yet seen that report – to look at it attentively because i think it is a very important exercise in transparency as regards the real implementation of the compact for growth and jobs. as i said in my introductory remarks, the ‘bilan’ is rather mixed. there are, it is fair to say, important points of progress, but there are still matters where we need to do more, namely in terms of implementation. most of the bottlenecks, if you look at this report, are mainly in terms of national implementation. this is the fair, objective assessment we can give to you. the commission, apart from many initiatives that it has taken – from the initial proposal to the increase of the eib lending capacity, to the project bonds, to the youth guarantee scheme and many other initiatives – has committed to redirect and redeploy the structural funds for growth. i would like now to report to you more concretely. i am pleased to confirm that the eur 55 billion representing the last tranche of the european union budget to complete current programmes – the 2013 tranche – has now been allocated to all programmes. in other words, the full budget of cohesion policy for the period 2007-2013 – eur 346 billion – has been made available to member states. the commission is now working with member states to ensure that these resources are mobilised rapidly and efficiently to support growth in investment and jobs. several member states – belgium, cyprus, estonia, greece, hungary, ireland, luxembourg, the netherlands and sweden – have reported on frontloading their programmes and have already allocated all the 2013 funds or will do so soon. other member states have indicated that selection processes are well underway – for instance germany, france, poland and the uk. i urge those member states who have not yet done so to accelerate selection processes for prompt implementation. concerning structural fund reprogramming to date, i would like to remind members of this house that, since 2009, more than eur 39 billion has been reprogrammed to support the most pressing needs and reinforce effective measures – with the european regional development fund (erdf) and cohesion fund accounting for eur 32.7 billion and the european social fund (esf) accounting for eur 6.5 billion. these measures have been accompanied by exceptional increases in the european union cofinancing rate for nine member states, reducing national financing by eur 19 billion by may 2013 and adding a further cofinancing top-up for the programme countries, namely paying eur 1.7 billion. these measures have reduced national cofinancing requirements by eur 20.7 billion. this takes pressure away from national budgets in the most vulnerable countries at a time of crisis. i could go on at length explaining some of the measures, namely the action teams for tackling youth unemployment and many other concrete measures. i invite you to look at this report on the compact for growth and jobs where you will see afterwards, in a very graphic way as well, all the measures that were announced by the european council and the council where we have shown the different levels of implementation in green, yellow and red. i believe that when we speak about transparency and accountability this should not be only words, but we should really put them into practice. i think this is clearly important. if i may now make a more general political remark, i hope that members of the european parliament, namely those coming from the pro-european families, resist the temptation that is unfortunately very common among some national politicians when there is a problem in the economy to put the blame on brussels or on the european union, instead of doing their own homework and instead of doing what they should do at home to reform their economies, to promote investment and in fact to make our economies more competitive. i think this point is very important bearing in mind the european parliament elections we are going to have next year. because if the main political forces, those with the great tradition of supporting the european project, start criticising the european union, if they think they will gain or make points with that, they are completely wrong. because in the business of attacking the european union there are others that are much better than the mainstream political forces and at the end they are going to be the ones who will benefit from these kinds of populist attacks. that is why i want to conclude, and since i cannot mention all the statements, by praising one statement that i particularly liked during today’s meeting. it was ms mcguinness’s remark. it was brief but she touched on a very important point. we have to deal with these matters with a great sense of responsibility. we should not ask the european level what the european level cannot deliver now. i can assure you that at european level, together with the european parliament, we are using to the full all the instruments we have to promote growth and stability in europe. however, we have to do it in a spirit of responsibility on a step-by-step approach; highlighting what has been achieved and also being honest about what has not yet been achieved. it is true that there are many matters where we need to do more and in a more determined and quicker manner. but i think this is the language of truth. this is the only way to reconnect europe to citizens; to talk with them responsibly; to tell them the truth and not to create illusions that we are not able to fulfil and to avoid the narrow vision of some nationalism or some chauvinism that can only do harm to our european union – a european union that, despite all the difficulties, is indeed showing its resilience and its very strong power of attraction. not only has croatia now joined the european union, but also the union is giving the green light for latvia to become the next member of the euro family. my dear friends of the european parliament, i remember that more or less one year ago people were speaking about the implosion of the euro and now i see new members for the euro, new members for the european union. in spite of all the difficulties i see this europe has a great future if we do it in a responsible constructive way.
the european council - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all those who have spoken. i would like to thank in particular those who have spoken positively about the conclusions of the european council. it's so rare that i cherish these moments and hold them. some of you have spoken of the failure of the policy being pursued - the so-called austerity policy. well, the policy we have is much more than a policy of austerity. i explained it all at the beginning of my introduction. it is a policy, a strategy, in four parts: ensuring financial stability, promoting the restoration of sound public finances, restoring - as far as possible - competitiveness, working on economic and monetary union and taking direct measures to promote employment and, above all, the employment of young people. there has long been a consensus on this strategy in the european council, and it is governments of the centre-left, governments of the centre-right, coalitions other than those i have just mentioned, which have endorsed it in the continuity of recent years. so it's not a strategy imposed by a few institutions, by a few stubborn people. no, it is a strategy shared by governments, supported by their national parliaments. i want to say it again. as regards the policy of fiscal consolidation, it is a policy which is of course still being pursued. the management is still the management that was established a few years ago. it is being achieved through stability plans, but given the economic situation and the results achieved - that is, a reduction of 50% on average in budget deficits - we have been able to ease the pace and have given some countries time to meet budgetary objectives. in the case of six or seven countries, the direction has been maintained, but the pace has been changed to take account of the results achieved and the recession that is affecting them. but so, keeping the course is extremely important, also to maintain credibility. this policy is therefore much more consensual than is generally believed across europe - the europe of national governments, supported by national parliaments. but we know very well that this takes time and that we cannot wait for, say, the return of strong growth without working on employment, and especially on youth employment. that is why we need, in addition to a general policy - and i hope no one is in favour of a policy of increasing budget deficits - a direct policy, a specific policy. and i find that the countries with the lowest rates of youth unemployment in our european union are precisely those which have this specific policy, focused on training, on good education and on cooperation between the business world and schools at all levels. and it is these countries that are more successful, even in a period - also for them - of recession or near-stagnation. we must draw the full consequences of the policies pursued in certain countries. we must learn from what some countries have been able to achieve. and this is the exercise we are conducting, this is the work we will also continue in the next few days in berlin. so, as far as economic and monetary union is concerned, is the pace too slow? ladies and gentlemen, in june last year we voted in favour of a single supervision, a single supervision, of all banks. six months later we have the legislative framework, at least at council level. six months is not enough time for a reform which is, in fact, in this financial world, a reform that is almost revolutionary! i said that in this parliament a year ago. of course, this must now be done on the ground. we need to hire people. you need infrastructure, you need logistics. it takes time. we have worked at a very high rate, and we continue to work at a very high rate. a few days ago we agreed on the harmonization of crisis resolutions in the various countries, with a criterion on how to proceed. it will also be very useful when the commission presents its proposal for a single crisis resolution mechanism for the whole of the european union. this is also an extremely important step because the two central components of a banking union are supervision and resolution. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union are respected. the commission's proposal is awaited and work will be done in the second half of the year in the council and parliament to ensure that the whole procedure is completed before the european elections. but of course, it takes time, as i said, because we have to fight financial fragmentation within the euro area, and we cannot wait to have a full and complete banking union. here too, specific measures are needed, and that is why we have asked the european commission and the european investment bank to work, to share the risks, so that we can help small and mediumsized enterprises as much as possible to have access to credit. so, as with youth unemployment, specific policies must be put in place until structural reforms bear fruit, and i would like you to understand this approach, which is indeed a gradual approach, a step-by-step approach, but which requires keeping the course, keeping the direction. it has been said that there is no solidarity in the european union. in the european budget, which i hope will be approved, there is a lot of european solidarity. the financial rescue mechanism, the esm, is a solidarity mechanism. we also spoke at one point about development aid. we haven't cut development aid. we have mentioned syria. who is the biggest donor of humanitarian aid to syria? it is the european union and its member states, with a total of €1 billion. we beat every other player in the world by a long shot. the european union remains, in general terms, the largest donor of development aid in the world, with over 50% of the total. i'm not a masochist. i'm not exactly euphoric either. but you have to tell it like it is. and so i'm not asking for understanding, but i insist that we always see the truth in all these aspects. on the recent incidents and revelations, which several of you have mentioned, we must first have a complete clarification, have all the information before we launch accusations. if, of course, these accusations prove to be true, then the time will have come for me to act and i will use, at that time, different words than i am using today. but the us authorities have been asked for further clarification on these suspicions and accusations. the european council has taken concrete action on various fronts in accordance with the philosophy i have outlined, a philosophy based on a four-point strategy, without expecting that strategy to produce all the desired results in the areas of youth unemployment and access to credit. that is why, in the meantime, direct, specific measures are being taken to tackle the problems wherever possible, while being aware that, for example, when we talk about employment, most of the competences are national competences. it is too easy to blame europe for problems that have not been solved at national level. we must put an end to the saying that 'if it rains, it is europe's fault'. no, we must see where the responsibilities lie, particularly when we talk about employment policy.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, when i am asked why i chose the committee on budgets, i always say that it is the most political committee, that is where the money that is allocated to the projects we have under way is seen, where the political priorities, in this case, of the european parliament are seen. and priorities, we have many here: unemployment, small and medium-sized enterprises, solidarity, growth. but when we look at the budget and the agreement on the financial framework that is presented to us, those priorities are not reflected. we are in the midst of the european union's greatest crisis. twenty-seven million unemployed, six of them young people. and what is our response to that? an unprecedented cut in the budget for the next seven years. because this is not a short-term cut, it's a cut for the next seven years. mr barroso said that our priority is youth unemployment. indeed, but certainly, with six billion euros, initially for seven years and now concentrated on two, we are not going to solve, much less, the problem of youth unemployment. and what are we going to do in 2016? we will not have any money left to fight youth unemployment or to meet the challenges we face. i'm not resigned to believe this is the best possible deal. i do not want to be told that parliament has to be responsible and vote for a realistic agreement. the responsibility is to live up to the circumstances and this agreement is not. europe cannot continue to be built on the basis of national egotism and minimum agreements, at least not the europe i defend.
in writing. − against. our group has decided to vote against the staff regulations on the grounds of the failure to burden officials in higher grades progressively and fairly. this is evident not just in the allocation of the sacrifices demanded but also in the privileges and allowances that this reform does not touch.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it approves the council decision to allow the parties to approve the protocol to the 1997 vienna convention. this convention provides for the compensation and liability to which the citizens of a signatory state are entitled for damage caused by a nuclear accident. there is a certain lack of homogeneity between eu member states where there are parties that have not yet signed the said protocol, this could lead to multiple legal problems, especially in the case of accidents or events with a cross-border dimension within the eu. the report is only intended to approve the proposals and procedures necessary to bring about greater uniformity in the member states' rules on the treatment of victims of damage caused by nuclear technology. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because it is based on improving market principles. this report seeks to improve and standardise the criteria for competition complaints, given the high number of complaints, some 300, lodged in this area each year. the report also includes the possibility for the commission to collect information on its own account from market operators, freeing member states from liability and the possibility of being sanctioned for failing to provide the information requested by the commission. the aim of this report is to speed up and improve the efficiency of the commission's work in the field of competition, to improve its functioning and to relieve the member states of an unnecessary workload. but i did not vote in favour because it only seeks to improve competition in the single market and to dismantle member states' state aids.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a good assessment of the first year of application of regulation (eu) no 1233/2011 of the european parliament and of the council on export credit agencies. under this regulation, agencies are to increase their transparency and accountability to the ec, including on their compliance with environmental law, human rights, sustainable lending and eu anti-corruption rules. almost all member states have their own export credit agency, which provides government-backed credits, guarantees or insurance to private domestic companies doing business abroad. some of these agencies are wholly public, others are privately or jointly owned, but always sponsored by governments. after one year of application of the abovementioned regulation, it was to be expected that member states would have increased the transparency of these agencies, but this has not been the case. this criticism is reflected in the report and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it provides a good regulatory framework for public-benefit foundations in the context of the european union. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity and is therefore in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the commission proposal is not problematic and goes into the technical terms of the functioning of this type of social organization even with some reference to the need to protect the labour rights of the workers of this type of foundation. the report improves some of the definitions in the proposal by providing a homogeneous framework which will provide legal certainty for the sector in which social foundations operate. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this proposal for the harmonisation of foundation regulations is a very good thing for the citizens of the european union. the new regulation will be clearer and basically similar in all member states. this will increase the scale of fundraising within the european union while reducing the operating costs of these same foundations. we must recognise the essential role of foundations in the european union and we must also give our full support to the efforts to develop them. the result of my vote is positive, as is this new regulation on european foundations.
in writing. − in favour. the aim is to facilitate the cross-border activities of public benefit foundations by laying down the conditions for the establishment and operation of a european foundation. foundations cannot channel funds efficiently on a cross-border basis in the eu. when they decide to operate across borders, foundations have to spend part of the resources they collect on legal advice and fulfilling legal and administrative requirements laid down by the different national laws. the present initiative creates a new european legal form intended to facilitate the establishment and operation of foundations in the single market. it will allow foundations to channel private funds more efficiently for public-benefit purposes on a cross-border basis in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a significant legislative step forward in ensuring accountability in ship inspections and in defending the rights of seafarers. this report comes at a time when the rights of seafarers are increasingly being violated and flag states are trying to shake off their responsibilities. these workers, who are in a situation of complete helplessness, in a place other than their place of origin and abandoned by the administrations, suffer terrible conditions. the report includes the proposal that member states should be responsible for carrying out checks to verify that each ship complies with the regulations on the conditions of seafarers. in this way, legal certainty for the rights of seafarers is sought, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a simplification of the administrative requirements for the technical inspection of vehicles which all european vehicles must meet. the report is technical in nature and aims to ensure that member states recognise the technical documents and accreditations of other member states immediately, providing legal certainty and convenience when crossing borders between different member states of the union. the report includes specific measures for member states such as the exchange of information in their respective national electronic databases or the possibility of removing cars from national registration registers to avoid liability. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves improvements in the control and inspection systems for commercial vehicles within the european union. the report requires each member state to inspect 5% of heavy commercial vehicles registered in its registries to ensure that they comply with safety regulations and do not endanger european citizens. the report improves the commission's proposal to include tractors not used for agricultural purposes, as well as other significant progress towards the member states implementing safety control systems for commercial vehicles that are homogeneous across the union. the improvement in the security conditions which this represents has led me to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. whatever the technical measures in place, we all know that the effectiveness of road safety policy depends ultimately on the users’ behaviour. for this reason, education, training and enforcement continue to be essential. however, the road safety system also has to take into account human error and inappropriate behaviour and correct it as much as possible. all components, in particular vehicles and infrastructure, should therefore be ‘forgiving’, so as to prevent and limit the consequences of these failures for the users, in particular the most vulnerable users.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it involves improvements in the control and inspection systems for motor vehicles and trailers within the european union, it does not do so effectively enough. the report deals with the control obligations on motor vehicles and their trailers, but during its discussion the commission proposal has lost many of the most important controls to ensure that safety rules are complied with, leaving and giving priority to those which do not represent a determining factor of safety, thus putting european citizens at risk, and this has been the view of the majority of groups. the report makes the commission's proposal worse by increasing the workload on issues that do not show flaws while forgetting about fundamental controls. i have therefore decided not to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because of the clear influence of the interests of certain industries on the exclusion of certain substances. the water framework directive establishes a list of substances that can pose a significant risk to water quality and use. this report presents the commission's review of the list of substances which affect water quality. while the commission's initial proposal increased the list to 15 substances, following the trilogue negotiations the number of substances was reduced to 10 with the possibility of gradually increasing the list by one substance at each review. there is growing scientific evidence on the dangers of industrial chemicals, but the eu seems to ignore it. in addition, three pharmaceutical substances are among the substances removed from the list, demonstrating the political influence of this sector. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because it is based on improving market principles. the report seeks to improve and facilitate the capacity of public authorities to grant public aid. activities that may be eligible for public support are included, such as cultural activities, those related to natural disasters, innovation, conservation of marine resources, among others. however, the report maintains an absolutely neoliberal approach, considering public aid as something temporary, which must be eliminated because it distorts competition. i did not vote in favour of this report because it seeks only to improve competition in the single market and to dismantle the member states' state aids.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new attack on marine resources under the pretext of generating 'sustainable growth'. this report focuses on the 'blue growth' of the maritime dimension of strategy 2020, by subordinating the natural resources of the seas to the objectives of competitiveness in the international market. the report proposes a series of measures to promote and facilitate economic activity in marine areas. the aim is to promote the profit of the large monopolies linked to the marine industry which will compete with the rest of the small players in the economy by making them disappear by the very nature of economic competition. the aim is to improve their performance through tax exemptions, measures to encourage the mobility of workers, all sorts of improvements to competitiveness, and by eliminating the livelihood of the communities in the maritime zones. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. mankind is turning towards the sea and oceans in the hope that they will be able to provide answers to the growing critical challenges we are now facing. new technologies, such as robotics and advanced underwater equipment, now allow eu researchers and enterprises to turn to the sea to help combat climate change, to develop treatments for serious diseases, to secure rare minerals, etc. building on its long and powerful maritime tradition, europe is now developing new activities such as offshore wind power and aquaculture. but if the eu is turning towards the sea, it is also because it is driven to do so by broader concerns. the need to reduce carbon emissions has rekindled interest in short-sea shipping and is opening the way for renewable forms of offshore energy. the overexploitation of land resources is raising prices on global markets and reinforcing the economic incentive to explore the mineral resources of the seabed.
we have supported this report because we can attest to the contribution of the social economy to the crisis in the basque country. there, our largest industrial group, powerful, diversified, innovative and with its own financial institution is called mondragon cooperative corporation. it has demonstrated the capacity to take initiatives, to locate jobs in the area and to maintain flexibility to suit the needs of the people. we are talking about a group that provides a country of two million inhabitants with almost as many jobs as all the shipbuilding in spain and values and ways of doing that, by their presence in the basque economic reality, influence above all our economic fabric. commissioner andor was able to see on the ground, and he said so in the employment committee, how this type of entrepreneurship, the existence of an active and sound regional industrial policy, and a responsible administration of public funds are one of the factors that explain why the basque country has less than half the unemployment rate of spain. the social economy is definitely a first-rate tool against the crisis.
in writing. i have voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises the ability of workers to carry on production without the need for an owner of the means of production, although this is a resolution which is likely to have little practical effect because it does not oblige the states. it recognises that european cooperatives are a key factor in overcoming the economic crisis; in the face of the bankruptcy of capital, it is labour that must take the reins of production. the resolution provides for a number of financing and support measures to boost this sector, which is a key pillar for job creation in the european economy. it also envisages a mechanism for the transfer of companies which are unable to meet their obligations to their workers by the creation of cooperatives. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. cooperatives, along with other social economy enterprises, play an essential role in the european economy, especially in time of crisis, by combining profitability with solidarity, creating high-quality jobs, strengthening social, economic and regional cohesion and generating social capital. the report recognises, furthermore, that social economy enterprises should benefit from a clearer and more coherent legislative framework, taking due account of the wealth of diversity among social economy institutions and the specific features thereof.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because the bioeconomy involves risks that need to be assessed more rigorously. it is an own-initiative report on the commission communication setting out the strategy for sustainable growth and the development of the bioeconomy. the bioeconomy is the economy that is based on the exploitation of biological resources with application in sectors such as agriculture, health, chemistry, or the energy industry. the report, in line with the commission communication, is too complacent about the advantages of the bioeconomy, as it believes that it will help to solve the social, economic and demographic problems facing europe today, such as the lack of raw materials or the need to ensure food security. i have therefore not voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. over the next 40 years europe will have to address a number of social challenges. the constant increase in the world population, the rocketing growth of demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide mean that europe will have to reflect on the new approach to take in terms of production and consumption, in order to deal with these new requirements efficiently and sustainably. the bioeconomy is a major opportunity to meet those challenges by ensuring not only greater sustainability but also support for rural development, a potential reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, improved sustainability of the production cycle and the spread of industrial innovation along the entire value chain. the bioeconomy strategy could be the solution to our dependence on fossil fuels and the road towards smart growth. if it is forward-looking, it could also provide the answer to food security, economic growth and the creation of new jobs.
mr president, mr president of the commission, this is a debate of the european parliament in the european parliament and in the exercise of a mandate from the european parliament, which means that it is not a debate with the hungarian government and, of course, there is no anti-hungarian or anti-hungarian sentiment in this debate. on the contrary, it is a debate in favour of the fundamental rights of europeans and the quality of democracy throughout europe, including the ten million hungarians, and democracy in hungary. the justification is obvious, because there has been a fourth amendment to the hungarian constitution which has caused concern in the commission, in the council of europe and in the venice commission. and rightly so, because it is not only a profound reform, an intensive reform, but also a rapid reform, which has not been opposed. i would remind you once again that democracy does not consist - as is often said, in a simplified way - in the rule of the majority, but in the rule of the majority with respect for the minority. not only the ethnic or religious minority, but the political minority and therefore also the opposition, involving the rights of political minorities to participate in processes affecting the essential rules of coexistence. that is why the paradox of the copenhagen criteria has rightly been mentioned. it reviews the state of democracy at the time of accession to the european union - which is not really a club of member states, but a union of founding values, including respect for democracy, the rule of law, the separation of powers, the rule of law and fundamental rights - but also throughout the eu's existence. that is why parliament is doing its duty by debating a report which sets out a follow-up to this situation and recalls that this is a union of founding values which must be preserved along the way. and it tells us, quite clearly, that today the european union is still more necessary than ever, not only to solve the financial crisis and the governance of the euro, but to preserve the values that are the reason for europe's existence and that explain why europe remains a pole of reference, a pole of freedom in an unjust and oppressive world, in which we all have to watch, without any double standards, without any concession to the practice of double standards, but preserving that, in any case, when there is a matter of concern, this is reflected in the debates of the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to make three opening remarks and a general comment. the first point: i fully support the words of our spokesman in this debate, mr manfred weber, who certainly represents the position of the very majority, the vast majority, in our group, which will be chaired by unity and cohesion. secondly, after hearing mr barroso and after reading the report of the council of europe assembly, it is clear that we must be able to appreciate and appreciate the attitude of the hungarian government in this matter and, in my opinion, it gives us more reasons to vote against the report. and thirdly, i would like to congratulate mr orbán on being here. he is present in all the debates and very few ministers would be doing what mr orbán is doing this afternoon and on other evenings when he has come to this parliament. and a general consideration: unfortunately the whole truth is not being told, the underlying reason, why we are having this debate on hungary. it is clear that we are not dealing with a conspiracy, we are not dealing with a soviet parliament. we are simply faced with a political strategy where essentially a party political strategy, with several parties in the lead, prevails, and therefore, rather than objective assessments, we enter into prejudices and sometimes the truth is not told about foreign investments or the truth is not told about the coalitions that had occurred before in hungary. and with all due respect, it is clear that there is a double standard, that there is more of a magnifying glass for some countries than for others. i just want to say that i'm not worried about hungary, i think it's a clumsy strategy. it is a clumsy strategy because tomorrow the tavares report will be adopted, but they will give more votes to a majority of hungarians more and more to the fidesz party.
madam president, the gerb party, mr borisov and mr tsvetanov did a great job, they were very effective in the fight against crime. the current government closes the directorate-general for combating organized crime and integrates the police into the dans, which is a counterintelligence agency and therefore outside parliamentary control. what purpose? for the purpose of opacity, for the purpose of concealment. i am particularly pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect and that it has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. and those reservations are in line with those expressed by commissioner reding on behalf of the commission. these are disturbing ingredients in the security sphere in bulgaria and these very vulnerable security items lead us to a fatal conclusion for democracy and for security in democracy. what conclusion do they bring? they lead us to the conclusion that the sum of the percentage of votes of the coalition for bulgaria (socialist) - 26.61% of support - plus the sum of the percentage of votes of ataka - 7.30% of support - results in a very dangerous situation, which is summed up in the fact that 7.30% of voters are the ones who decide in bulgaria.
madam president, some members of this european parliament, with commitment and responsibilities in the field of fundamental freedoms and rights, have participated in the whole of the previous debate on the situation in hungary, and we are participating in this debate on the situation in bulgaria, without any concession to double standards. and that is why we deplore the double standard in comparing the representation of the socialist group members, which is exactly the same as that of the people's group members in terms of numbers. we regret that this debate, instead of focusing on the european point of view, may be leading to a clash of national contradictions, with the hungarian public or the bulgarian public in mind. because there is a european issue to be discussed without any concession to double standards, and that is the state of the quality of democracy and fundamental rights. and we have reason to be concerned, indeed, about the configuration of this national security agency for which a manifestly unacceptable appointment has been made. we have reason to be concerned about these protests taking place in bulgaria and which indicate that this parliament must address the state of the quality of democracy and fundamental rights wherever a civic demand is made in this regard, to demand respect for fundamental rights, to take into account the council conclusions on fundamental rights and the rule of law and the 2012 report of this parliament as well as the commission's report on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
madam president, madam commissioner, we know that there are natural phenomena which could be combated by a determined european policy, not complacent, to pursue and combat them environmentally. floods account for more than 30% of the number of natural disasters in europe, affect more than 35% of the population and cause severe economic damage, worth more than eur 4.5 billion. my support and solidarity with the citizens of central europe who have suffered floods, as well as in malaga, andalusia and murcia last year and recently in catalonia and aragon. it's mandatory to put all the natural means, of course. we must prevent and also, of course, provide the solidarity fund with a sufficient amount to be able to neutralise the effects of these natural disasters.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank members very much for an excellent set of comments. let me try to sum up in four points. firstly, the solidarity fund – how it works, how it should work and its size. secondly, other sources of support for affected populations and for action to increase preventive measures. thirdly, very important, how we think of flood management in the context of environmental sustainability, and how crucial this is. last but not least, the issue of highest vulnerability and the social impact on the most vulnerable populations. let me start with the solidarity fund. this is often thought to be an emergency response instrument, but unfortunately it is not. it was not designed to be one. nobody feels the deficiency of that more than me, because as the commissioner for humanitarian aid i can provide overnight assistance to moldova, but i cannot do it for romania, because in moldova we would use humanitarian aid, whereas in romania we would apply the solidarity fund. currently, the way the solidarity fund is designed, it requires up to ten weeks for a country to make an application, and then it takes another six to ten weeks to assess the application and the damage identified. our experience shows that it takes between four and eight months, or six months on average, between the moment a disaster strikes and the solidarity fund is potentially triggered, and the moment help gets to people. when help gets to the affected countries, it is substantial. let us just remind ourselves that after the floods in 2002 the solidarity fund granted eur 134 million to austria, where the damage was 2.9 billion; eur 129 million to the czech republic, where there was damage of eur 2.3 billion, and eur eur 444 million to germany, with damage of over 9 billion. one may say that the damage is much bigger than the amounts granted from the fund, but these are significant funds made available to countries and communities at a very difficult moment. as regards size, today it is up to eur 1 billion a year. in the new mff that is likely to be voted through tomorrow, unfortunately this goes from that eur 1 billion down to eur 500 million a year. it is a tough time, and obviously we have to be careful with claims on our member states’ money, but hopefully in the vote which takes place tomorrow there will also be a clause on revisiting the parameters for the fund mid-term. i am confident that this issue will be looked into again. then comes the question of whether procedures should be changed so that there can be accelerated assistance to countries. the commission currently is putting forward a proposal which would do two things: firstly, it would create immediate early-response drawing rights when it is obvious that the solidarity fund is going to be triggered, as it is right now. secondly, there would be some changes and streamlining of provisions so that we can indeed cut down on this processing time. i certainly hope that we will get support in the council and here in this chamber for this proposal. but the solidarity fund is not the only source of funds from the european union, and i want to stress that the structural funds, the cohesion fund and funds from the common agricultural policy and the social fund can be – and have been – used to help countries to be better prepared for disasters, and also to alleviate the impact on the most affected communities. currently we have over eur 5 billion in funding for flood management that our member states are using to improve their capacity to cope with rapidly increasing risks. we are also looking into other ways to help europe be more prepared for disasters to come. we are working with commissioner barnier on how the insurance industry can play a bigger role as a signalling tool to businesses, individuals and households in terms of where they should or should not live and build and develop, and how best to do that. thirdly, ecological conditions. i could not agree more with those speakers who stressed the importance of thinking of climate change not as some hypothetical threat in the future, but as a reality today, and the importance of our wetlands not as space that could be used for urban development and intensive agriculture, but as a means of protection of lives and property. this makes it so very clear that we must work hand in hand with commissioner potočnik on making sure that we introduce concepts of river basin management – points were made in that regard – and ecological sustainability as a factor, especially in flood disaster risks but also other disaster risks. last but not least, in every disaster i have been to, it is usually the poorest and most vulnerable people, whether in europe or elsewhere in the world, that are most devastated. that puts a premium on us to think hard about how to make sure, as we have a system to support victims of disasters, that we target the most vulnerable people with assistance first. that is something on which we have good experience in some member states, and we want to spread that and make it more broadly used. finally, on the point that i believe mr cofferati made about our needing a mindset change, i could not agree with this more. we are living in a world of more frequent and more devastating disasters. for us in europe, floods are the costliest thing. over 50% of damage in europe is due to floods. by the way, the biggest killer is not floods, it is summer heat waves. these kill elderly people and children. in this world of higher risks, we can only cope if we change our mindset to a risk management mindset. this is what we are striving to achieve, also with the new civil protection legislation that mandates risk assessments for our member states. i can say that there is not a day in which i, as the commissioner responsible, do not think hard on what we can do more of so that the lessons of the past are learnt and integrated, more lives are saved and there is less damage. one euro invested in prevention means seven euros of damage saved. of course, that does not even capture the pain and suffering of the people that are affected.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish first to thank you and in particular the rapporteur, ms podimata, and the shadow rapporteurs for your continued support in favour of the financial transaction tax (ftt). the goals of fair taxation, a cohesive single market and a more responsible banking sector are more relevant than ever and we know that the ftt can contribute to all three. i welcome the positive views from the committee on economic and monetary affairs on our proposal for an ftt under enhanced cooperation. you tabled amendments on issues such as the introduction of currency spot transactions in the tax base and on ownership principle. you will not be surprised that the commission cannot follow your proposals on these issues for legal reasons which we explained during the debate on our initial proposal. however, and i want to emphasise this point, the commission welcomes the overall approach taken in your report and is ready to further examine many of the issues you raised. i would like to address the main amendments here which, in my view, represent interesting avenues for consideration in the ongoing discussions with member states. first, the commission is ready to examine the suggestions made for an initial introduction of the tax with lower rates for products of specific market segments. i still believe that, for reasons of tax neutrality, both government bonds and pension funds should remain in the scope of the directive. for those two categories of products, however, a reduced rate, coupled with a rendezvous clause could constitute a suitable way forward which should be further examined. the same is true for intra-group transfers. while understanding the spirit of your position, the commission needs to examine the issue in more detail. here again, an outright exemption potentially opens a very significant loophole in the tax base, which should be avoided. second, the commission is of the opinion that the treatment of some specific actors deserves further analysis and should be treated with caution. for market makers: the problem we face is the difficulty in defining the activities which are useful for market liquidity, thereby avoiding a wide exemption that would expand to all proprietary trading. such an exemption could open the door to implementation difficulties and have non-negligible effects on tax revenues. for non-financial companies, we heard your message and would rather be open to examining ways to avoid smes being unduly categorised as financial institutions. i am looking forward to hearing your views during our debate tonight.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and all my colleagues for the very good job that they have done. as a parliament, we only have a consultative role on the financial transaction tax (ftt). however, our vote is important to give a signal to european citizens, in the sense that we are asking for a european ftt that some member states have been implementing on their own account. i am in favour of the ftt as a tool for better regulation of the financial markets, not to hurt or destroy them. this is why i have presented amendments to achieve various exceptions in order to keep the real economy as unaffected as possible. in this respect i particularly welcome the exemption for smes voted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs two weeks ago. european smes are today too dependent on bank financing and, in a credit crunch context in some member states, it is fundamental to make it easier for smes to access financial markets. it is also very important that government bonds only pay half the tax. the ftt should not increase the interest rate spread of countries and regions. finally, the cost of the ftt for pension funds was reduced to a quarter. however, i do not think that pensioners should be taxed by the ftt so this is why the liberal group will ask tomorrow for a full exemption of pensions. in summary, i think that this parliament can give a strong signal in favour of an ftt that taxes speculation and protects the real economy as much as possible.
thank you, philippe. you gave me a fright at first, i admit.
there are other requests to ask questions under the 'blue card' procedure, but we cannot extend the shift because we are very late. you know it's the president's responsibility to handle such requests.
mr president, we will support this report because the introduction of a financial transaction tax is a step in the right direction. i hope that we will be able to achieve the objective of generating additional revenue of 55 billion, that we will be able to limit speculative movements, that we will contribute to improving the financing of european programmes and that we will strengthen the commission's independence from the member states. i also hope that this movement will encourage other states to join in an idea which will be fully effective to the extent that it is global. i regret that the veto of a member state against a fair, progressive and useful proposal forces us to start with an enhanced cooperation mechanism. we also advocate the protection of smes, pensions and the real economy and i hope that, finally, anti-fraud measures will prove that what seemed a utopia 40 years ago may soon be a real necessity.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want to thank members for the views expressed during the debate. honourable members, your support for an eu financial transaction tax (ftt) is an important signal for the member states. as you may know, discussions in the council continue. today the reading of the commission proposal is being finalised by the relevant council working group. the commission has invited the lithuanian presidency to continue the discussion in the council, in order to come to the adoption of the compromise text as soon as possible. it is time for the member states to converge on the ftt to be implemented, while also protecting the spirit and purpose of this tax. i call for a constructive dialogue with all member states (participating and non-participating), to rapidly come to viable solutions. but evidently, it is now for the 11 participating member states to look for definitive solutions. with this report, the european parliament presents some good ideas to feed into these discussions. it leads to better balanced solutions and facilitates future adoption. for its part, the commission will continue to support negotiations in every way possible, to facilitate a swift and ambitious compromise on the ftt. again, i wish to thank you for your broad support in moving forward with this initiative.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr sven giegold , on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/65/ec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) as regards depositary functions, remuneration policies and penalties (com ((2012) 0350 c7-0178/2012 2012/0168 cod)) (a7-0125/2013).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, mr sven giegold, as rapporteur, for doing this important work. these are important parts of the regulatory arsenal or architecture that we are building together, with the council, but first with you, on the basis of the proposals that i have put forward for the last three years, to draw all the lessons, as sven giegold said, from the crisis and, in particular, to ensure that we respond to this crisis of consumer confidence. one of our priorities is to ensure that retail markets are better regulated and that they put the interests of their customers at the heart of their business. it is precisely the neglect of this principle, in all the previous years, that has been one of the structural causes of the financial crisis. this is of course essential for funds for retail investors in europe, ucits. as sven giegold said, the madoff affair - which we must not forget, because we must not have a short memory - has also had repercussions on our continent. and it is the inadequacy of regulation, and sometimes the damage of self-regulation or deregulation, that this madoff case has shown in terms of investor protection. the rules on the liability of the depositary are insufficient. this fraud has caused many european investors to lose very large sums of money. furthermore, the current remuneration policies of ucits managers do not sufficiently take into account the interests of investors, because they encourage, as the sven giegold report demonstrates, excessive risk-taking. that is all we want with this proposal: to put an end to all this, to put the interests of investors at the heart of the concerns of managers, to ensure that the rules are properly applied and to that end we are proposing a common approach to the sanctions associated with the main infringements of the ucits framework. i would like to thank the european parliament, the rapporteur sven giegold, and also the fictitious rapporteurs for their commitment and the very consensual work they have managed to build around the text which has been submitted to you. i would like to recall three main lines of this work: the task and responsibility of the depositary of the ucits, which need to be clarified, and a responsibility which needs to be better stated. consumers do not have to bear the consequences of a loss of assets, as may have been the case with the madoff case. that is why ucits proposal v requires the return of the lost assets. i would also like to emphasize the ambition and pragmatism of the sven giegold report. three basic principles should be stressed. first, the depositary must be liable for the assets it holds, without the possibility of contractually discharging that liability. second, assets held must always be protected, even in the event of the depositary's insolvency. thirdly, consumers should not be deprived of their right to complain directly to the depositary, without having to go through the manager. here's the first axis. the second aspect raised by your rapporteur is the remuneration policies of ucits management companies. the remuneration of managers must take the long-term interest of the consumer into account. that is why we have proposed strict rules on the structure of fees and the limitation of the variable part of the manager's remuneration. i share the parliament's aim, which is to ensure a high level of consumer protection through its proposals. that is why i am prepared, as i have done in the context of crd iv, to work with parliament and the council to reach a compromise, while expressing the hope that the debate on pay, which i know is important, will not prevent this important matter from being finalised during your term of office. and so i am prepared, mr giegold, to work with you and the council to find the most dynamic and clear compromise possible on this issue. third, the sanctions. i have ensured that the rules introduced on penalties are consistent with other similar texts, such as crd iv. it is obvious that certain provisions need to be adapted to take account of the specificities of the asset management sector. the proposed rules on ucits depositary liability and remuneration policies already exist in the aifm directive. this directive regulates alternative fund managers funds primarily distributed to professional investors. with the entry into force of the aifm directive this month, professional investors in europe will be better protected than investors in ucits, which are mainly retail investors. that is why this situation, this lag, cannot be sustained. i am convinced, mr giegold, that we will be able to finalize as soon as possible this future legislation to adapt and secure this product which was created in 1984 and which is objectively, throughout the world, a success story of the european financial industry.
our calendar coincides with yours, even if there is life after life, but it is still our common calendar, and we should take it into account.
member of the commission. - mr president, i can quickly thank each and every one of the speakers for their overall support of the work of your rapporteur and, at the outset, of the work of the commission's proposal. i would like to say to thomas mann and to mrs jensen that they have every reason to point out, as i did in conclusion, that ucits or ucits are one of the great successes, one of the tools of the success of the european financial industry. and it's a success that's been recognized -- i can attest to that -- and a tool that's been used all over the world. it is therefore important to ensure that this tool is preserved, improved and regularly modernised, so that it is always safer and more transparent and better applied - as mr cofferati has just said - through a more coherent system of sanctions, as we have proposed. most of you have raised with arlene mccarthy the question of pay, for which we are going to build a fairly new and important system of rules. the objective we pursued in the commission at the beginning with regard to this framework was clearly to give the right incentives to managers to avoid, as we have seen in other sectors of the financial markets, excessive risk taking, encouraged by excessive remuneration, which ultimately leads in the banking sector to taxpayers paying or, in this sector, to investors being poorly protected, as mr stolojan said earlier. we want to ensure, at the same time - and this is a point raised by olle schmidt - that the system is more transparent. we have set up similar rules for banks. this is a point that jean-paul gauzès raised in the context of crd iv. i would like, ladies and gentlemen, to see the same principles applied to ucits and ucits, not necessarily the same, but rules that serve the same objectives, namely financial stability and consumer protection. in fact, syed kamall himself explained earlier that we could achieve this goal by different means. i would also like to confirm, mr president, that in the trilogues which are about to begin, i will contribute, as i did in crd iv, to working towards a compromise, making every effort to ensure that we find the best possible compromise on this sensitive issue of pay, which is not the only subject of this text that we need to secure and improve transparency for consumers and investors, but which is an important subject.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the reform of the structure of the eu banking sector (2013/2021 (ini)) (a7-0231/2013).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs arlene mccarthy for this own-initiative report, which is an impetus, a source of enlightenment and encouragement for us in the work i am doing on this very important subject, since it concerns the very structure of the banking sector. for once, this is not a g20 request. we have worked with each other to implement all the g20 recommendations and we are almost done. this is a reform we need, by ourselves, and for ourselves. this remains a topical subject even if the g20 has not asked for it. several countries, not the least of which are london, berlin and paris, have implemented national reforms on this issue in a dispersed order, and other places and other member states are preparing to deal with this issue, even if they have agreed to defer their own legislation pending a european initiative. i would like to remind you that outside the european union, the united states has been concerned with this issue of financial stability since the 1930s, with the glass-steagall act. more recently, paul volcker's proposals and the affiliation clause for certain activities have continued this work in the united states. so i want to thank arlene mccarthy for taking on this work on behalf of parliament. i would also like to point out that the work you have done is precisely in the spirit of what i asked erkki liikanen to do, namely to do a thorough job, surrounded by very good experts, and to come up with recommendations on the basis of which we will complete all the calibration studies in the coming weeks. and thank you to the fictional reporters who worked with you. you have succeeded in securing a large majority in the committee on the lines of this report. so, obviously, it reflects a wide diversity of opinions, which is not surprising to me. this is a complex subject, as your rapporteur, arlene mccarthy, with whom i have spoken on this subject many times, well knows. moreover, whenever structural reforms are considered, there are bound to be different views. i would like to highlight a few of these differences. firstly, as regards the objectives of this reform, you clearly state the need to put an end to the so-called 'implied support' of the states for some of the risky activities of the banks. this question of 'implied support' is a point which we are particularly concerned with in the current impact study. the challenge is that banks now pay a fair price for the risks they take - including market risk - and thus are no longer structurally encouraged or incited to prefer speculative activities to financing the real economy. secondly, for what activities can public support still be envisaged? the report examines this question and mentions a number of them, but you are wise to leave this question open because it is also very complex and we will only be able to answer it after we have completed our internal evaluation. thirdly, another point is the complementarity of the structural reforms with all the other financial reforms already adopted or in the process of being adopted. and you saw last week an agreement in the council that will allow the trilogue to be started on the resolution. we are also well advanced now for the implementation of the basel rules in 2014. i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this structural reform will be complementary to all the others. it complements and reinforces some of their objectives. it therefore has its own added value, provided it is properly calibrated. that's what we're doing. in this respect, your report is - i repeat - a good illustration. he referred repeatedly to the directive on bank recovery and resolution. the rules we are about to adopt will be groundbreaking. the draft provides for the possibility of imposing ex officio structural separation on a case-by-case basis if the competent authority deems it necessary to ensure the 'solvability' of the bank in question, in other words its ability to be the subject of an orderly resolution. but this project, which we are discussing, does not allow for horizontal reform in this area, even though this is one of the issues we must examine. i spoke about the resolution, and i also said a word about crd iv, which has the same objectives of robustness. overall, i believe we need to intervene where necessary, in the light of clearly defined prudential and corporate governance objectives. i think that is one of the keys to successful structural reform: not waiting for everything, carefully defining its objectives and adapting the implementation measures. fourthly, as regards the legal form of this initiative, the report mentions a directive, which is consistent with the wish that the forthcoming proposal should be limited to 'principles' which each member state will then have to put into practice. if, however, we have to go into some details on this question in order to make the necessary distinctions, we shall do so. finally, the national reforms under way are starting points - i mentioned them earlier in several countries - in a debate which will ultimately concern only a limited number of the largest european banking groups, a few dozen at most. the crisis, which is not over, has taught us that some groups are more difficult to supervise or deal with in times of great difficulty than others, simply because of their complexity and internal organization. these groups were in fact structurally inclined - as i said earlier - to prefer market activities with higher potential returns but also higher risks and where losses are absorbed by the deposit bank. however, the crisis has shown us that no model - diverse or not - has made it through the crisis without a hitch. in sum, i am convinced that we must respect, within the european framework, the diversity which makes our banking sector strong and resilient. but we must also ensure that the structure of the banks favours the financing of the economy, of the territories, of enterprises, of smes, rather than speculation. we must also ensure that the most risky activities can no longer endanger entire banking groups. finally, i will ensure that european banks remain competitive and are not penalized in comparison with their main global competitors. europe must be an example; it must not be as naive in this area as in others. we must therefore find a balance that preserves the competitiveness of our banks, without accepting that high-risk activities with very little social benefit endanger the activities that are necessary for financing the economy, the regions and small and mediumsized enterprises. these are the main lines of the thinking behind the legislative proposal on which my teams and i are working hard. i must say, ladies and gentlemen, in all sincerity, that my staff are not extendable at will. they are doing a great job. they were focused on supervision, on resolution; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european union. and that is why this text on the structure of banks, following on from the liikanen report and with the light of your report, mrs mccarthy, will probably be presented next october.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the reforms already adopted in the banking sector will strengthen the capital requirements and liquidity conditions of financial institutions. we are close to establishing a european framework for the resolution of banking institutions that avoids moral hazard by giving priority to the protection of depositors and avoiding bailouts by taxpayers. but the reform of the banking system is incomplete. financial stability, price formation and the financing of the real economy require structural measures to ensure the effective separation of risks between deposit and investment banking. these measures should take into account the comparative importance of banking intermediation in the european economy and the benefits that universal banking provides to its customers. the liikanen report also noted that the crisis is not related to the banking business model. the commissioner has announced that the pending regulatory initiatives to be presented in october must be designed with both ambition and rigour. after a thorough impact assessment, the report adopted by the committee on economic affairs puts it this way, proposing principle-based legislation to reduce risk and complexity, ensure competition and limit interconnections that are a source of systemic risk. the socialist group supports the mccarthy report because it shares the need for a system of separation which always preserves the operation of the essential activities of the banking sector and allows for early and effective intervention by the supervisory authorities. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all her collaborators.
mr president, we are talking in this report about structural reform of the banking sector in the eu. a banking sector which, since the start of the crisis, has received public support equivalent to 13% of european gdp. after the crisis, the system had to be reformed and commercial banking separated from speculative banking, but in this debate we must not forget the citizens, who suffered from the crisis, in which the banks played a leading role, and who, in return, do not receive any kind of help. commissioner, what are we doing for people who lose their homes to the banks? what are we doing for people who have been defrauded by banks, as well as those affected by financial product fraud, as preference and subordinate? thousands of people cheated in my country? what are we doing for the self-employed, the cooperatives, the smes, the entrepreneurs, whoever represents the real economy, who are suffocating from lack of credit. we need real, deep and urgent structural reform of the european banking sector.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their report, but fraud, tax havens, corruption, financial scams on small savers, unemployment and privatisation are the result of the sacred principle of deregulation which the european commission, the council and the troika are imposing on all the member states, on the 28 member states already. and this is all it takes. we have to go to the central problem and the problem is that we have to regulate the market, we have to regulate the financial system. in my country, spain, fraud amounts to 25% of gross domestic product, i.e. the entire budget for health expenditure. it is impossible to maintain this situation and there is no will to get to the root of the problem. all the proposals that are being made are commendable, but as long as this sacrosanct principle of deregulation is not changed, this european union, as it is constructed, has no future and therefore this principle of deregulation must be changed.
mr president, i would like to thank both mr vaughan and mrs češková for their reports. i wanted to refer to the problems connected with the need to fight tax evasion essentially. when the budgets being lost now are equivalent to the health budget or four times the amount of education in the european union, i understand that it is absolutely essential that there be systems as efficient as possible to combat this tax fraud. on the other hand, i am grateful for the recognition of the successes in customs operations, precisely against cigarette smuggling, as in my country recently. i think it is important and that progress is being made in this area. i would then continue to call for transparency in the beneficiaries of european union funds. it is something that the commission has not yet guaranteed us and i believe that citizens are increasingly asking for it; it would be a fundamental formula. i would simply like to say to mrs gräßle and mr staes that all the effort they have put into blocking the regulation is better spent on dealing with the olaf issue in this report. it would have been more effective.
mr president, first of all i would like to greet the lithuanian government and wish it the best of success in its presidency of the union. it is not an easy time for our lithuanian friends to face up to this responsibility, because serious matters are crowding our agendas, but it is precisely the dates on the calendar that require closing as many issues as possible. in this connection, i would point to issues such as the promotion of european telecommunications networks, progress in the creation of the internal energy market and energy infrastructure, to avoid the islands that still exist within the european union and that lithuania knows very well; the in-depth reform of the emission allowance market, as an instrument for environmental protection and also as a vehicle for an innovative and progressive industrial model, thus putting an end to the anomalous situation in which this market is found; finally, clarifying whether the rules governing hydraulic fracturing, on the one hand, and the planning of the development of renewable energies, on the other, should be set by the states or the european union. the lithuanian presidency will therefore not be short of work, but i am sure that it will be faced with the best of spirits, as it always is on these occasions of premiere.
mr president, madam president, i congratulate you on your first opportunity to preside over the union. you have said that it is the final stage of a period, but the most important problems are usually concentrated in the final stage. the presidency has many priorities, but i shall concentrate exclusively on employment. every month we come to the european parliament and hear that the economic situation is improving, but every month we see that the percentage of unemployed in the european union is growing. we heard yesterday that the latest figure was a historic figure, the largest in the history of the union. this problem affects young people primarily. it also affects people over 50, but, as far as young people are concerned, it is damaging the vital projects of a part of that european youth. it also affects their social integration. lithuania knows this, because part of its youth is leaving the country. and it also undermines the legitimacy of the european union, whose future depends on these young people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the employment of young people. we have just taken a step towards an agreement on the financial perspective. we must not underestimate the amount of money that has been made available to improve youth employment and we must acknowledge that progress has been made in relation to the initial proposal in this respect, but the scale of the problem is so great that it requires us to look everywhere for more resources than will initially be available from the financial perspective. secondly, there are actions and reactions by national governments. the employment ministers are meeting in berlin today. we welcome this meeting, but we want european policies, we want community policies. i therefore ask you, mr president, to promote the european and community dimension of the response to youth unemployment in cooperation with the commission. tomorrow we shall vote on the commission's work programme for the remainder of the term. there'll be a series of dots there. i hope that the commission will be sensitive to these proposals and i hope that the council will support them resolutely from now until the end of its term.
mr piotrowski is not here. sir graham watson, you have the floor.
in writing. − we voted for emily o’reilly.
i have supported this resolution because it gives the european project, until the vote in september, the chance it deserves and which we need. the rudeness of the states is more than economic. its aim is to prevent european leadership in the fight against the crisis. the states do not want a european power that overcomes austerity, that implements powerful and immediate plans against poverty and unemployment, and that monitors the fulfilment of strategic priorities and spending guidelines on key issues such as transport infrastructure or economic recovery policy and innovation. they prefer to live the fiction of individual salvation. and in this situation, the commission cannot. the states do what they want and this europe is limited, stuck and is a convenient scapegoat to blame everything on and avoid its own responsibilities. we european federalists denounce this game and we are setting the stage for it in this resolution. the final exam is in september. if they do not change, we will say 'no' to the financial framework. neither the citizens punished by the crisis nor their representatives in this house will forgive them for suspending a key examination for the future of all of us.
mr president, today i abstained on the vote on the multiannual financial framework agreement for two basic reasons. the first is that this is a budget directed at subsidies and not at growth. europe needs more economic integration, not more transfers. as a mediterranean liberal, i ask for this. the council has applied big cuts to the ten-t network, fundamental to the mediterranean corridor and other infrastructures for freight transport. the eu budget should not be perceived to be merely an automatic cash machine for member states. the second reason is the concept of ‘no representation without taxation’. without own resources parliament and the commission will always dance to the music of the council, i.e. the member states.
in writing. the multiannual financial framework negotiated under the irish presidency of the european union guarantees both the programmes currently in progress and those to be implemented for the period 2014-2020. my vote is in favour because the multiannual financial framework (mff) guarantees the establishment of the european fund for aid to the most deprived (efad), for which i fought hard; the mff also promotes a european youth employment initiative with significant funding in 2014 and 2015 to support the entry of young people into the labour market, another cause i remain very committed to. finally, the cfp reconciles the budgetary austerity target set by the council with the need to launch plans at european level to get back on the path to growth.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the multiannual financial framework, considering that the agreement reached was insufficient. in the present convulsive situation we are living in, we need other policies than the austerity that is being imposed on us and which is not producing positive results in any member state. we need policies that invest in job creation and growth. we are deciding on an agreement which will have consequences until 2020, a time interval which exceeds the current and next mandate of the european parliament. with just under a year to go until the next european elections, it would be advisable for the new financial framework to be approved by the new parliament and the new commission college that will emerge from the elections.
in writing. - i voted in favour of our own resolution b7-0332/2013 and against the resolution of the epp/alde/s&d groups. this mfp scandalously denies the reality of poverty and the social emergency in the countries most affected by the euro crisis. although the decision to mobilise eur 6 billion to combat youth unemployment is a positive one at first sight, looking a little further, the financial resources are clearly insufficient to guarantee young people their rights. the possibility of 'advancing' the money from the 2014-2015 youth guarantee entails risks for subsequent budgetary years.
in writing. − i supported the political agreement because, despite having always supported a more ambitious and substantial eu budget for 2014-2020 to finance the eu's core policies, the possibility of being able to advance funds for the youth initiative, the flexibility margins that can be used to finance 'unemployment', as well as the funds also advanced for the cosme programme, have seemed decisive to me, so i voted in favour. there are many lacunas to be regretted (e.g. the eu's own resources); it was not the best agreement, but it was the best possible agreement.
in writing. − in favour. the objective of this proposal is to simplify and expedite the procedure regarding the voting of unece regulations by the commission on behalf of the union, hence reducing the delay in the adoption of these acts in the framework of the unece. this is important as the eu vehicle type-approval system currently relies more and more on unece regulations, which are replacing eu legislation (see regulation (ec) no 661/2009 on general safety). in addition, quicker adoption of legislation will allow for faster responses to regulatory requests from the operators.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it deals with technical procedures for harmonizing the characteristics of vehicles produced in the european union with those of the rest of the world. the technical report concerns the construction standards for this type of wheeled vehicle and does not contain any content which could have serious political consequences. 'parallel agreement' means an agreement annexed to the 1958 agreement which includes the global technical regulations applicable to wheeled vehicles and to equipment and parts which can be fitted or used on such vehicles. it is because of the technical and non-conflict nature of the report that i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. − in favour. the objective of this proposal is to simplify and expedite the procedure regarding the voting of unece regulations by the commission on behalf of the union, hence reducing the delay in the adoption of these acts in the framework of the unece. this is important as the eu vehicle type-approval system currently relies more and more on unece regulations, which are replacing eu legislation. in addition, quicker adoption of legislation will allow for faster responses to regulatory requests from the operators.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it improves the application and implementation procedure for the european globalisation adjustment fund. the report seeks to promote the sharing of experience and different types of information to ensure improved implementation of these european funds by providing access to relevant data. the implementation of the egf is a fundamental tool to enable workers in the industrial sector to adapt to the changes affecting the production structure of the european union. the availability of these public funds for technical assistance will allow the correct application of aid to industrial workers across europe who are suffering the effects of the crisis. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. according to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and of article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 000 000, drawn from any margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it seeks to improve the regulation of the rights of persons under investigation by olaf, it does not represent a step forward in the fight against corruption which this institution must develop at european level. the report focuses on the procedural law of persons affected by olaf investigations and on improving cooperation between actors involved in such investigations. however, this report does not attempt to go into the internal control systems, which should be the priority. i have not been able to vote in favour of this report because of this shortcoming.
in writing. − in favour. the amended proposal of the commission for amending regulation (ec) 1073/1999 concerning investigations conducted by olaf focuses on strengthening the procedural rights of the persons concerned by olaf investigations and on enhancing the efficiency of olaf’s investigations, as well as on improving the cooperation with its partners (eu institutions and bodies, member states, international organisations). the proposal also aims at clarifying the role of the olaf supervisory committee and establishing an exchange of views with the institutions at political level to discuss olaf’s policy priorities.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it seeks to impose a regulation which strictly controls operators, it does not require all the force necessary in view of the numerous scandals which this type of economic activity has generated throughout europe. the report includes limits on the salaries of managers to avoid the scandalous figures we have seen in the past. the report also provides for a sanctions regime which is a considerable improvement on what is currently being imposed. this report certainly goes in the right direction towards more effective control and a sanctioning regime, but in the final analysis it never questions the dynamics of financial markets, because it accepts the underlying idea of the efficiency and effectiveness of financial markets. it is for all these reasons that i have not been able to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. directive 2009/65/ec of the european parliament and of the council should be amended in order to take into account market developments and the experiences of market participants and supervisors gathered so far, in particular to address discrepancies between national provisions in respect of depositaries’ duties and liability, remuneration policy and sanctions. in order to address the potentially detrimental effect of poorly designed remuneration structures on the sound management of risks and control of risk-taking behaviour by individuals, there should be an express obligation for undertakings of collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) management companies to establish and maintain, for those categories of staff whose professional activities have a material impact on the risk profiles of the ucits they manage, remuneration policies and practices that are consistent with sound and effective risk management.
in writing. − collective investment schemes for transferable securities manage assets worth eur 6 billion and account for 75% of collective investment by small investors in europe. the 1985 reform of the directive is part of the reform of the financial system and of the correction of the weaknesses identified during the crisis. it aims to increase transparency and investor protection. the inconsistency of the different judicial solutions derived from the madoff case requires regulating the obligations and responsibilities of the depositaries. we have therefore approved conditions for the eligibility of depositaries, their compliance with prudential and capital requirements, and strict conditions for delegation. it is necessary to incorporate guidelines on the remuneration principles already established in other areas of financial services: transparency, alignment of interests with investors and a long-term perspective that helps to avoid excessive risk-taking. the bonuses cannot therefore exceed the fixed remuneration, the remuneration should be 50% effective on the assets managed and part of the payment deferred over time. in addition, european supervisors need to have minimum standards on administrative penalties for breaches of community law.
i voted against this report, which is designed to intervene in the emission allowance market, because it will not improve environmental protection and because it is harmful to the industrial sector, whose environmental awareness has been expressed through innovation, technology and investments which have produced clear results in terms of emission reductions. our industry has made an effort and we must respond with predictability and certainty. our industry competes in a global market. let us concentrate our efforts on spreading this awareness to the rest of the world and devising procedures to avoid environmental dumping. that is not achieved by harming our industry, which can favour closures and relocations that benefit those who do not produce according to our environmental standards. this is what the sector expects.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, despite my group's position on the greenhouse gas emissions trading system, it is not possible to solve problems caused by market mechanisms themselves by means of market mechanisms. the report presents the plan that determines the greenhouse gas emission volumes for the period 2013-2020. the european union is one of the most polluting places in the world and the report argues that this market mechanism will reduce emissions, whereas the evidence shows that this mechanism has done absolutely nothing. the reduction in emissions has come about because of the impact of the economic crisis on european industry, not because of this mechanism. it is for all these reasons that i have maintained my position and voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. although we welcome the vote in favour of backloading, we regret that it has distracted attention from the more fundamental reform that the ets so badly needs. the greens have always cautioned that backloading is only a stop-gap measure to buy more time for much needed structural ets reform. more action is needed if we are to truly rescue the eu’s flagship climate change policy. we urgently need a functioning emissions trading system that rewards industry for reducing emissions, as a higher carbon price makes investments in green technology and innovation worthwhile. however, merely postponing the auctioning of 900 million permits is clearly not sufficient, with the surplus of emissions allowances under the ets current nearing the 2 billion mark. returning 900 million permits to the ets at a later date would be like throwing petrol on a fire.
in writing. − 1.this market is an essential instrument for an innovative and progressive environmental and industrial policy consistent with the plans adopted by the eu. 2. it should, however, be subject to a general review to prevent its manipulation by the agents involved. the economic and social committee (employers and workers) reported favourably on the ec proposal (14-xi-2012). 4. linking emission allowances to the price of electricity is misleading. in spain, the latter is determined by other factors: government intervention and auctions held by companies on future demand.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a substantial improvement in the safety of people in the face of a crossborder threat to health. the proposal builds on the response system established in 1998 and proposes responses to all types of crossborder health threats: biological, chemical, environmental or unknown. the report sets out certain measures to improve safety in the event of any health threat, for example: it establishes the responsibility of member states to provide information to the who, it also obliges the provision of vaccines and treatments in an equal manner, etc. the report warns of the risks that lack of resources in the health system can bring in terms of cross-border health threats and their management. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. having learned from recent crises such as the h1n1 ‘pandemic’ in 2009, the volcanic ash cloud in 2010 and the e. coli bacteria in 2011, on 8 december 2011 the commission submitted a proposal for a decision establishing measures and structures for the effective protection of citizens throughout europe from a wide range of cross-border threats to health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to introduce a charge for international financial transactions in the european union. we continue to maintain that the tobin tax, as it has been called, should have been introduced more than 20 years ago to avoid the crisis of the speculative model that has been fuelling the european economy. now, with international capital markets virtually frozen and the certainty of no revenue being raised, the commission has appropriated the concept for its financing and is not even able to impose it throughout the union. the report raises rates of between 0.1 and 0.01% but does not raise any specific use for the meagre funds that are raised by this tax. despite all the criticism, i believe that progress is needed on this type of tax to impose a fiscal penalty on the capital markets that have caused the crisis. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. after more than 10 years of civil society campaigning, reinforced by a strong parliament position in 2010/11, and eurobarometer showing large support, changes of attitude of the centre right in germany and france, the commission made a volte-face in the summer of 2011, and proposed a far-reaching directive for the taxation of financial transactions (ftt). it is widely recognised that the financial sector is vastly under-taxed, and hardly anybody opposes to idea of introducing some form of taxation. the beauty of the ftt is – and that is precisely the reason why some actors still nonetheless oppose it – that it offers a double dividend: additional revenue of up to eur 57 billion per year generated if adopted at eu 27 level (more than other financial taxation proposals being ventilated) and financial regulation, as certain forms of harmful trading activity would become in-attractive.
in writing. - i voted against this report because latvia's entry into the euro will mean a loss of sovereignty for the country and the introduction of many of the economic problems that the countries of southern europe are suffering from. the european union should have learned from the mistakes of the previous implementation of the single currency without a european public treasury, but it does exactly the same in the case of latvia, declaring itself in favour of adopting the euro on its part on 1 january 2014. this decision will lead to a deepening of economic relations with the eu, which will lead to the concentration of capital. the commission notes that the latvian authorities have not provided any evidence that the latvian authorities have not provided sufficient information to demonstrate that the measures are imputable to the state. in the absence of an assessment of the previous experience and the risks this decision entails for the future of the latvian people, i have voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. on 4 march 2013 latvia requested a convergence report pursuant to article 140(1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the criteria for latvia to adopt the euro on 1 january 2014 are laid out in article 140(1) tfeu. latvia is currently a ‘member state with a derogation’, thus not a member of the euro area. article 140(2) tfeu states that the council, on the basis of the reports from the commission and the ecb and after consulting the european parliament shall, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, decide which member states with a derogation fulfil the necessary conditions on the basis of the criteria set out in article 140(1) tfeu, and abrogate the derogations of the member states concerned. on 5 june 2013 the commission proposed in its convergence report that latvia adopts the euro from 1 january 2014. the european parliament has to examine the convergence report with the related legal proposal and issue an opinion. despite certain reservations on individual issues, the rapporteur recommends that the derogation be lifted with effect from 1 january 2014.
in writing. - question no 1: i abstained because the amendment deals with two different issues and because i agree with the reference to international anti-money laundering rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it seeks to improve road safety conditions in the european union. the resolution sets out the fundamental objective of reducing without delay the number of serious injuries on european roads. the resolution draws attention to vulnerable road users, who together account for 50% of all fatalities in urban accidents in the eu. the resolution also proposes measures to help member states meet the above objective, such as improving emergency and relief services, promoting training in first aid for the civilian population, improving post-accident care and the long-term rehabilitation of accident victims. i have voted in favour of this report because of the role that all this can play in improving the safety of european roads.
in writing. − in favour. pedestrians and cyclists together account for 50 % of all urban road fatalities and a large share of serious injuries. thus, we support the monitoring and further development of technical standards and policies for the protection of the most vulnerable road users – the elderly, young children, disabled persons and cyclists, and call on the commission to provide an overview of urban areas with a 30 km/h speed limit and the effects of that limit on reducing fatalities and serious injuries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it draws the attention of the hungarian authorities to the violation of fundamental rights which the constitutional reform under way represents. the hungarian government, by this amendment to the constitution, has succeeded in shielding its political decisions and imposing them unilaterally without any consultation or appeal. the report complains about violations of fundamental rights, such as the lack of independence of the judiciary, the lack of guarantees for press freedom and pluralism, the need for electoral reform to guarantee balanced representation in the national electoral committee, etc. a significant number of these complaints to the hungarian government affect the fundamental rights of hungarian citizens, but it also calls on all member states to ensure that their parliaments monitor and respect fundamental rights. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. for the first time in its history, parliament today declared that legal and constitutional changes in a member state are incompatible with the values of the eu set out in article 2 of the treaty on european union. there is a long list of areas in which hungary is at odds with european values: the independence of the data protection authorities, independence of the judiciary, media pluralism, rights of minorities and rights of the political opposition. the recently adopted fourth amendment to the constitution, in particular, is a reason for serious concern as it gravely undermines the role of the consitutional court. ever since victor orban’s fidesz party obtained a two thirds majority in the hungarian parliament in 2010, there has been a systemic and general trend of changes to hungary’s constitutional and legal framework that are incompatible with common european values as referred to in article 2 of the treaty on european union – democracy, rule of law, liberty, equality and respect for human rights, including the rights of people belonging to minorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a fundamental statement of solidarity with the victims of the numerous floods which have affected many european citizens throughout the year. during the last six months, many european countries have been affected by excessive rainfall and it is essential to provide condolences and institutional support to the relatives and friends of those who have died or disappeared. the resolution, however, not only aims at this but also includes proposals to ensure that such disasters do not happen again. the resolution stresses the role of civil protection mechanisms, stresses the importance of planning investments to avoid the severe impact of these serious events, calls for the organisation of joint emergency responses, etc., and calls for the use of the european union solidarity fund to help the victims. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. parliament expresses here its empathy and solidarity with the inhabitants of the member states, regions and municipalities affected by the disaster. it takes into consideration their serious economic effects and pays its respects and condolences to the families of the victims. it appreciates the relentless efforts made by the safety and civil protection units, rescue teams and volunteers to save lives and minimise damage in the areas affected and applauds the actions of the member states that provided assistance to the areas affected, as european solidarity is exemplified by mutual assistance in adverse situations. it stresses too that soil degradation, driven or exacerbated by human activity, such as inappropriate agricultural and forestry practices, damages the capacity of soil to continue to perform in full its crucial function of preventing natural disasters.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it dilutes the proposal of the high-level group of experts appointed by the commission to make a proposal for reform of the banking sector. although the proposal put forward by these experts is far from the reform that united left would propose for the european banking sector, it is an interesting proposal because it advocates the separation of banking activity between commercial banks and investment banks. this would ensure the safety of customers' funds and prevent them from being used for speculative activities. this proposal has been further watered down by the amendments of the epp and alde groups, leaving the proposal in a vacuum and eliminating the positive influence this report could have on the future of the eu banking sector. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. currently in the eu, if you want to start a bank, you can basically engage in any kind of activity you want, as long as you meet the minimum capital requirements set out in the capital requirements directive/regulation. the problem is that, for many risks, banks are effectively asked to work out what they think is an adequate cushion to absorb 99.9 % of losses over a year. the crisis has shown that banks systematically (and often wilfully) underestimated such risks, were undercapitalised when sub-prime, lehmans and the credit crunch hit, and then had to be bailed out to prevent a systemic implosion and stop the economy at large grinding to a halt.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the functioning of the audit procedure for european union funds and a step forward in the fight against fraud in european funds. the european commission and olaf reports on the european union's activity in the field of defence of its financial interests and the fight against fraud in 2011 are analysed. these reports express the most important criticisms of the weaknesses in the european union's budgetary control systems for both revenue and expenditure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the community. i voted in favour of this report because it expresses fundamental criticisms of the eu's control systems.
in writing. − in favour. the eu and the member states share responsibility for the protection of the union’s financial interests and the fight against fraud, and close cooperation between the commission and the member states is essential. the member states have the primary responsibility for implementing some 80 % of the union budget, as well as for the collection of own resources, inter alia in the form of vat and customs duties. the commission has recently undertaken a number of important initiatives on anti-fraud policy measures. thus, parliament stresses that countering fraud and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union is the obligation of the commission and the member states, as enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it expresses the weaknesses in the approach to this integrated internal control framework. the report includes information on the current margins of error offered by the audit activities carried out by the commission services. in order to integrate member states' audits as part of the single control system, minimum criteria must be met which are not currently met and therefore relying on member states' systems as the only control system would allow for an increase in fraud. the report warns of the dangers that must be avoided before an integrated system is set up and therefore supports the requirement to maintain a double check to enable the audit systems of the member states to be monitored. i voted in favour of this report to maintain the surveillance of the national control systems.
in writing. this report provides an update on the difficulties faced by the european commission and the court of auditors of the union in controlling expenditure. i want to support this report because it encourages the european commission to prevent the slippage of expenditure which is detrimental to the accounts of the european union and thus achieve the sound financial management that citizens expect from their representations, both national and european.
in writing. − in favour. in june 2005, the commission adopted a road map to an integrated internal control framework. the aim was to fulfil its commitment to achieve a positive statement of assurance (das) before the end of its mandate. the implementation of the action plan started in 2006. this working document firstly aims to assess the progress made and the results achieved by the commission in implementing this road map. in its second part, this document raises issues and questions on the future of the integrated internal control framework.
mr president, the mythical slogan 'yes, we can' has been replaced by the sordid slogan 'yes, we scan'. yes, we are spying. and this damages the reputation of the united states, it damages the trust between the united states and the european union, but it also damages - of course also - the fundamental rights of europeans. because it is serious that the united states spies on european institutions - including the negotiators of the treaties with the united states - but also, and massively, on all european citizens. it is therefore essential that this european parliament should learn from this. firstly, by calling for the completion of the new data protection package, including the regulation to strengthen the protection of fundamental privacy rights, which have been massively eroded by these practices whose legality we must confront and verify. secondly, it is also essential that this has consequences for bilateral relations with the united states and, therefore, many of us in this house have called for the suspension of the imminent opening of negotiations on the all-important free trade and investment agreement with the united states, because until this matter is fully clarified, it is impossible to restore confidence completely. and finally, president schulz has instructed the libe committee to decide the way forward. the libe commission has decided, through a meeting of its coordinators committee, to set up a research group, a parliamentary inquiry, in which expert input is gathered, all the necessary data and reports are gathered, timely appearances are organised and finally a report is issued on how we can ensure that european citizens are being properly protected by their authorities and that this will not happen again. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i am among those who refuse to apply to this situation an approach that we could call "cynical" and that would be expressed simply by accepting that "everyone does it, what we are going to be amazed by, what we are shocked by". all governments do it, all intelligence services do it. no, this is not an acceptable conclusion for european citizens. it is not a presentable conclusion and certainly not a premise with which this european parliament can work. we have an obligation to represent the sense of outrage of millions of european citizens who are not willing to accept that their personal data and privacy are being destroyed by practices whose legality must be fully verified. i am among those who believe that this parliament has an obligation to draw political lessons by strengthening the european data protection regime and ensuring that in bilateral negotiations with the united states that regime is respected in terms of reciprocity, and that european citizens have the same guarantees vis-à-vis the united states as americans have vis-à-vis the european authorities.
mrs de martini, we are very late and therefore, as the president has the responsibility for handling requests to put questions under the 'blue card' procedure, i want to inform you that i will not be accepting such requests because i want the debate to take place within the scheduled time. i am therefore not going to give the floor to questions under the 'blue card' procedure while i am in the chair and am managing the presidency of the house.
mr president, mrs reding, mr president-in-office of the council, when we visited the united states on the occasion of the agreements signed on the tftp and the pnr, we already perceived that the american government considered itself the world's gendarme. its instruments allow it and are justified, even if all agreements on judicial and police cooperation and all national sovereignty are ignored. the safeguards of these programmes, the tftp and the pnr, when they are disproportionate - and they are - are not sufficient. the only safeguard is the rule of law and judicial intervention. perhaps american citizens are informed through their representatives, are protected by their judicial system and have the possibility of appeal. the european citizens are not informed and are not protected by the judicial authority and the rule of law and we have all become suspects. this takes us back a few centuries. back then, the master was european and the americans today wanted to be citizens. today the master is american, but europeans do not want to be inhabitants of a colony, even if it is digital. we are citizens. and we also fight against all tyrannies. that is why we need a european government. mrs reding, you are well-intentioned, but you do not yet have a consistent answer. i hope that the council representative will really have an answer and support it. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, espionage, violation of fundamental rights and of our privacy as europeans, unworthy behaviour of the united states towards europe. how can the council and the commission have such a weak, timid position after having learned of this spy ring? they must be firm in the face of this scandal and suspend negotiations with the united states, because we are not a colony. commissioner reding, can you give me an answer about what happened in the european skies with the president of bolivia? can you confirm whether the decisions of france, spain, portugal and italy to ban the flyover of evo morales' plane, on suspicion that snowden was on the presidential plane, are due to pressure from the united states? will the european union publicly apologize to the president of a sovereign nation for having violated its international immunity? we need public action and condemnation... (the president cut the speaker off)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to welcome the very strong position that parliament has taken in relation to the prism programme and the alleged spying on the eu and eu member states’ diplomatic premises. this debate has certainly been heard well beyond the borders of the european union. it is important that the united states understands that the european parliament is serious about these issues and that our citizens’ right to privacy is not negotiable. concerning the external affairs and espionage questions, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, cathy ashton, is in contact with the us authorities at the highest level. she is seeking explanations and i am sure that she will address this house when she receives answers. i deal with the data protection angle of this debate. here i would like to say how important it is that the message has gone out from all sides of this house that parliament will work towards the swift adoption of the data protection package. parliament knows that any delay in the adoption of data protection reform plays into the hands of those who do not share the objective of high-level data protection in europe. completing the negotiations on the package should be a key deliverable for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and for parliament as a whole. it is in your hands. concerning the eu-us negotiations on an umbrella agreement, many questions have been raised. we have held 15 rounds of negotiations so far, and i welcome the fact that this house calls on the us to make progress on a number of important points still being negotiated, most of all the question of reciprocity. this is the kind of support i need from parliament in these negotiations. some progress has been made thus far, and agreement on around half of the provisions has been found, but it is now time to address key issues such as equal treatment of eu and us citizens and effective judicial redress. i can tell this house that we would have had an agreement a long time ago if i had given up on these points, but i have not done so because i cannot understand why, for example, a us citizen has the right to redress in the eu while an eu citizen does not have the right to redress in the united states. the reason why we are continuing to negotiate is because i am keeping that point on the table. if i had given that up, we would have signed the agreement already. i will not sign an agreement so long as we do not have reciprocity and have not found solutions in accordance with european law on difficult issues such as data retention. parliament has also asked questions about how to determine the facts and figures regarding what has happened with the prism scandal. i agree. we cannot generalise: we have to know what has really happened. in order to ensure a correctly calibrated policy response, the eu and the us have agreed at ministerial level to set up a transatlantic group of data protection and security experts to clarify what has happened, and to start this clarification process in july. to that end i have received, as i told you yesterday, a letter from us attorney general eric holder, which i followed up with him in a telephone conversation: so the clarification process can now start. this is a fact-finding group, not a political body. it is not a forum for negotiations with the us but rather a place in which to establish, firstly, the functioning and the scale of the programme; secondly, the nature and the scope of oversight of the programme and the question of judicial redress for eu citizens; and, thirdly, how the information gathered via the programme was useful for national security purposes. the political decisions will be taken in this house and by the commission. that is why the commission will keep this house regularly informed on the group’s findings. a final word on another strand of today’s discussions: many members have made a link between the alleged spying on the eu and member states’ diplomatic missions and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). as i mentioned in my opening remarks, this question was discussed yesterday by the college of commissioners. the college considers that the beginning of the eu-us trade negotiations should not be affected. however, the commission will make it very clear that, for such negotiations to succeed, there needs to be confidence, transparency and clarity among the negotiation partners. that is why, in parallel with the trade discussions, there will be discussions on security and on data protection. we need to restore confidence. without confidence, strong collaboration between the parties will not be possible.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, first let me thank all of you who made contributions and floated ideas, suggestions and requests. the protection of our fundamental rights, the right to privacy being one of them, as ms in ’t veld put it at the very beginning of our discussion, was at the very heart of this afternoon’s debate. as the presidency, we share the views expressed by many here on the need to have robust data protection rules. in the council presidency programme – in this book that was first presented in the house this morning – you will find that taking the data protection package further is one of the priorities of the council presidency. while we must not lose sight of the ultimate goal of intelligence gathering – that is to say, saving lives – it can never be used as a pretext for or serve to conceal acts of espionage against the eu or its member states. but the only way to address the important issue raised here is by engaging in a dialogue with the us. as the presidency, we stand ready to work with others in taking forward that dialogue. our aim is, as i said in my introductory remarks, to find in a lawful manner a proper balance between the need to protect the lives of our citizens as well as to ensure the right to privacy. some of you referred to the ttip agreement. here i would say that, in considering this issue, the council, and in fact all of us, need to take into account the very comprehensive interest of the eu. i have no doubt that data trade and investment negotiations with the us have the potential to deliver significant economic benefits. i do not think that we should embark lightly on any approach which might put that at risk, but of course all has to be conducted in a very transparent manner, as the vice-president of the commission said when presenting the opinion of the college of commissioners. finally, again as the vice-president of the commission mentioned in her remarks, a proposal has been made by the us for the establishment of a high-level group. this proposal will obviously need to be examined very carefully. i may only say that there will be a further discussion to consider that proposal amongst our permanent representatives in coreper tomorrow. let me assure all of you that all the points that you have made will help inform this very debate and all further debates by the council on this issue.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in egypt. we are not going to use the 'catch the eye' procedure in this debate, nor the 'blue card' procedure, which we were not using because we were too late.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, even as we speak, dramatic events in the egyptian capital are underway. this is a moment for all of us in this house to call on the parties to avoid violence and escalating tensions and to engage in the search for a solution to the crisis through dialogue. the moment is indeed critical and the european union special representatives (eusrs) must send an unequivocal message in support of the democratic transition. only a political process leading to an early return to democracy will solve the present crisis. the high representative/vice-president, baroness ashton, this morning urged both sides to show restraint and asked all parties to find a political solution, based on a substantial and inclusive dialogue. as the high representative has stressed since the beginning of the arab spring, deep democracy is not only about elections and majorities. it is much more than that – an independent judiciary, an active civil society and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression. democracy is ultimately about listening to citizens and making compromises, ensuring that the voices of all the people and not simply the majority are heard. we see with deep concern that the demonstrations are turning more and more violent with loss of life and many injured. this is to be deplored. the large number of female protestors being sexually abused is deeply troubling. our thoughts are with the families of these victims. the high representative was in egypt last week and discussed the situation with the president, as well as with the opposition, with this clear message: we have argued since the beginning that the revolution belongs to the egyptian people. the political forces must ensure that the demands and aspirations of the egyptian citizens must be addressed through dialogue and compromise. we will continue to engage at all levels to say loud and clear that the voices of the egyptian people must be heard. the biggest challenge, and indeed the biggest risk for egypt, is the polarisation of its society and political system. as we have all witnessed, millions of protestors took to the streets in egypt demanding the resignation of president morsi and calling for early elections. tens of thousands of islamists maintained their sit-in with smaller protests in some provincial centres. only a year ago mohamed morsi from the muslim brotherhood was appointed egypt’s first democratically elected president, a milestone in egypt’s democratic transition that the eu and the international community welcomed. president morsi immediately announced himself the representative of all egyptians and he smoothly organised a civilian handover of power from the military. since then the eu has invested time and effort to support the democratic evolution of the country, engaging at all levels of government and opposition. eusr bernardino leon has spent months engaged in shuttle diplomacy to cairo to meet with the government, presidency and the whole political opposition in order to build confidence and to find common ground on political and economic issues. all interlocutors agreed that egypt was facing economic and political challenges and they all wanted to do something about it. they also agreed that they have to talk to each other but simply did not seem able to do so. unfortunately the long-awaited government reshuffle in early may did not yield the results wished for, but quite the contrary. at the same time the eu has also been very active in support of respect for human rights in egypt. the recent court ruling sentencing 43 employees of foreign ngos to prison is very worrying and cathy ashton and commissioner füle stressed the crucial role of civil society in egypt’s ongoing transition. eusr for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, travelled to cairo in february and again in mid-june, emphasising the importance of building a society based on the rule of law and on the respect for human rights. the eu has offered technical support to the draft ngo legislation and a law against violence towards women. tangible results of the eusr efforts can be seen in the agreement from the egyptian side to work closely with the venice commission on the draft ngo law. several of its recommendations have been acknowledged and egypt has confirmed its willingness to continue to work closely with the eu and the international community in order to address the remaining problematic provisions of the draft law. finally, concerning the court convictions of 43 ngos and individuals, egypt has confirmed that the egyptian authorities are waiting for a politically appropriate time in order to find a solution. apart from the political stalemate, mistrust and, in many areas, worrying human rights situations which possibly triggered such mass protests, it is a fact that more than two years on egyptians are feeling worse off than they were before 2011. unfortunately the finalisation of an imf arrangement to which fundamental reforms are linked has been continuously postponed. public services are deteriorating with daily power cuts and fuel shortages. the eu stands ready to assist the egyptian people in their efforts to complete their challenging democratic transition. this has been – and continues to be – the eu’s commitment to egypt, but egypt needs to help the eu to help egypt. there is an intrinsic link between political agreement and stability in the economic situation and the return of tourists and foreign direct investment of which egypt is in dire need. in order for our large-scale financial commitments to materialise, the eu and other international donors need political stability and true commitment to democratic and economic reforms. as i put it at the very beginning, the current situation in egypt is evolving very dramatically and now is the time for all of us to call on the parties to avoid violence and escalating tensions.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr vice-minister, mr secretary-general, ladies and gentlemen, the transition process in egypt is going through dramatic times. there are mixed reports about president morsi's situation. the deadline given by the military authorities to the government to overcome the serious situation in the country, characterized by polarization, episodes of violence, heavy loss of human life, the decomposition of the government and a profound economic and social crisis, expired a little over an hour ago. egypt, mr president, is stuck politically, economically and socially. and what message can we, as the european parliament, convey in the present circumstances? firstly, a message and a call for calm, restraint and dialogue to overcome this situation. secondly, that the voice of the people must be heard, mr president, through inclusive dialogue. it is not possible to have a transition process without consensus, and that consensus must be embodied in a constitution which guarantees the rights and freedoms of all citizens, the rule of law, the rule of law, the separation of powers and also the holding of free and democratic elections and, of course, respect for minorities. and we must also draw up a road map, mr president. it has been said that through a government of national unity and a reform of the constitution and also of the electoral law so that elections can be held as soon as possible. egypt is a great country, it is a symbol of the arab world and it is a key player in the middle east peace process, a process that is convulsed at the moment by the situation that we are living in syria, by the nuclear problem of iran, and, therefore, it is a player that we cannot afford to destabilize. egypt will have to find its way, it will have to find its way and the european union must be prepared to continue to bet and defend the dividends of peace, dialogue, concord and reconciliation in this great country.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the next few hours will undoubtedly be decisive and i think we must send a message from here. - who? al, the protagonist, who is the people of egypt. there's a combination that can be lethal, depending on how it's handled. the streets, occupied, millions of people on the street again and the army, which is deploying with armored vehicles and has already occupied the tv. the first message i wanted to send is directly to the general of the armed forces, abdel fatah al-sisi: that at this moment he should stand with the people of egypt. above the village, no one. therefore, he must be a guarantor that this transition actually takes place, this demand of the tamarod movement (rebelión), which, it seems, has collected twenty-two million signatures to call for early presidential elections. this is the only way we can ensure that transition is actually achieved. you see, the tahrir revolution, like the jasmine revolution, were revolutions with universal demands. they were all social demands. the sectarian factor, the religious factor, was not claimed. not in tahrir or in jazmine. but, by magic, suddenly they stand up, they lead these revolutions, the muslim brothers. and here i think it should be clearly stated that the united states and the european union were wrong. because it seemed, it gave the impression that they were going after the muslim brothers, when what you have to claim is a constitutional process, a constitutional process where the secular character of the constitution is clear, so that it guarantees all universal rights.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i very much welcome the discussion we have just had, particularly at this crucial and difficult moment when egypt faces a very serious challenge. it is very likely that the coming days will be decisive. as i have said before, we must base our position on our clear principles and values. this is not about artificial deadlines or taking sides with one or another group. i would just like to thank all those who took the floor – mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, ms de keyser, ms schaake, ms brantner, mr tannock, mr meyer and mr obermayr – because i can tell you that our views and analysis of the situation on the ground coincide. the eu has no other option but to stay engaged with egypt as a neighbour and partner. ultimately it is only the egyptians who can determine their future and egypt’s path. it is the particular responsibility of the elected leadership to listen to the voice of egypt and to enter into an open-minded and broad dialogue with all sides. egypt’s biggest enemy is division and polarisation. political representatives must ensure that the demands and aspirations of the egyptian citizens are addressed through dialogue and compromise. what must be emphasised is the need for an early return to democracy through inclusive dialogue and the rapid holding of elections. all efforts must be made to include all political forces in the ongoing process and avoid violence. on our side we will continue – and the high representative will continue – to engage at all levels to say loud and clear that the voices of the egyptian people must be heard and the peaceful transition continues.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by andrew duff, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on improving the practical arrangements for organising the 2014 european elections (2013/2102 (ini)) (a7-0219/2013).
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, european citizens are increasingly affected by cybercrime. 8% of internet users in the union have suffered identity theft and 12% have been victims of some form of online fraud. furthermore, attacks against information systems have a considerable cross-border dimension, as the connecting elements are often located in different countries. and in view of the debate we have just had on espionage in the united states, i would like to welcome this directive which will allow for joint action by all the member states. i would like to congratulate mrs hohlmeier on her hard and effective work. this framework directive will bring the criminal law rules of the member states closer together on this type of crime, providing for effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions and improving cooperation between judicial and police authorities. i therefore encourage member states to implement the directive quickly and correctly to ensure that such behaviour is punished and thus prevent offenders from moving to member states with more lenient rules. in addition, data collection is necessary for the effective fight against cybercrime, but always taking into account that the directive complies with the recognised principles on the protection of personal data. this data will help specialised bodies such as europol and the european information network security agency to better assess the state of network and information security in europe. yes, mrs reding, it is true: on 11 january 2013 f3 was created, working for europol. i take this opportunity to stress its importance and to recommend its proper budget allocation.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission took note of the remarks and as mr kazak rightly said, let us not forget that the basic commitment of the union was the october 2008 international donor conference in brussels in the aftermath of georgia’s conflict with russia in august 2008. we have experienced a long delay with providing this macro-financial assistance to georgia. it is now important to go ahead and to be ready to deliver when the conditions are fulfilled. should the political situation evolve in an undesirable direction, and therefore the political preconditions for this mfa programme were no longer met, the eu could always decide to interrupt its implementation. the signing of the mou, loan agreement and grant agreement could be delayed and/or tranche disbursements could be suspended. therefore the commission welcomes the solution found for georgia and also hopes that the macro-financial assistance which was proposed some time ago for the kyrgyz republic and jordan will be adopted swiftly.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission takes note of parliament’s interest in this initiative to negotiate a plurilateral trade in services agreement. as is rightly pointed out in your draft motion for a resolution, services are the backbone of the european economy, representing roughly 70% of eu gdp, and are creating the majority of new jobs. the eu is the biggest exporter of trade in services in the world. the group of countries potentially participating in these negotiations represents more than half of our exports and of our imports of commercial services. opening markets to trade in services can therefore bring us important economic benefits. our objective is to negotiate an agreement that is not only ambitious and firmly anchored in the current world trade organization rules on trade in services, known as the gats (general agreement on trade in services), but that also, and most importantly, can be brought back to the gats at a later stage. we do not want to negotiate a ‘super free trade agreement’ between the potential members. we want to avoid creating a competitor to the gats and endangering the primacy of the wto system. the commission therefore appreciates the fact that the resolution is very supportive of the commission line: that, in order to allow for later ‘docking’ into the gats, it is necessary to incorporate gats core articles and concepts in the newly negotiated agreement. this is of the utmost importance, and including that element in the resolution sends a strong signal to our trading partners. the resolution is balanced in listing the services sectors in which the eu has offensive and defensive interests. we are encouraged to approach these negotiations in an ambitious manner, tailoring the objectives to the plurilateral context in which they are taking place. having said that, i would like to reassure you on some important issues that are addressed in the draft resolution. firstly, the commission is fully committed to defending european sensitivities on so-called services of general interest. let me once again make clear that liberalisation does not necessarily mean privatisation. these negotiations will not result in any requirement to privatise services such as water distribution. in this context it is surprising that concerns have been expressed about waste management falling within the scope of the negotiations. waste management is an environmental service, and typically an eu offensive interest, as is also pointed out in your resolution. if markets are made more open, our companies will be able more easily to export the state-of-the-art know-how that can help third countries improve their environmental conditions. secondly, i also note that the draft resolution recommends not entering into trade liberalisation commitments in relation to audiovisual services and cultural services. in the context of these negotiations, the commission will not negotiate eu market access commitments on audiovisual services. however, to exclude cultural services altogether would imply excluding, for example, services by news agencies, which are an eu offensive interest. thirdly, the commission is also aware that a cautious approach is necessary with regard to the temporary movement of natural persons for business purposes (the so-called mode 4). conditions for granting visas are not part of the wto services rulebook and will not therefore be part of these negotiations. discussions in this regard will be limited to issues of due process in administrative procedures and transparency. negotiations on a plurilateral trade in services agreement represent a great opportunity for the european union. i hope that parliament can support us further once the negotiations begin. commissioner de gucht and dg trade will keep you fully informed on the state of play.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, as the commissioner has just said, trade in services is undoubtedly a key sector of our economies and of trade in the 21st century. this plurilateral agreement will enable us to move forward in trade in services between the european union and the 21 trading partners, following the stalemate of the doha round in december 2011. the resolution which will be voted on tomorrow by this parliament calls for the promotion of an ambitious agenda of offensive interests by the european union in many sectors. sectors such as financial, e-commerce, tourism and construction, among others. the agreement, as the commissioner has also said, must be broad and comprehensive and compatible with the general agreement on trade in services of the world trade organisation. the latter has a twofold purpose: to facilitate the participation of new members, who may be added at a later stage, and to allow for the possible multilateralisation of the agreement at a later stage. this open door to multilateralisation should be an incentive for the involvement, and in the future their accession to the agreement, of emerging economies such as brazil, china or india. the protectionist trend we are witnessing as a result of the world economic crisis calls for new bilateral or, as in this case, multilateral initiatives to help combat all measures restricting trade in services. finally, although the two-year deadline for its conclusion seems too ambitious, i believe that there is sufficient political will, especially in view of the serious economic situation and the benefits this agreement will bring to all parties.
mr president, first of all, i would like to say that i fully agree with what malcolm harbour has said here and i would like to stress that we are not just going to vote on one more resolution in this parliament today. during this term, we have worked hard in different areas to achieve the goal we set ourselves at the beginning of this term: completing the digital single market and making the most of the possibilities offered by the digital economy, the full potential of the so-called digital revolution. in this legislature, in this parliamentary seat, we have passed reports whose fundamental purpose was to achieve that goal, such as the september 2010 report completing the internal market for e-commerce, or more recently, in october 2012, the report completing the digital single market. a specific working group on the digital single market has also been set up. it has been in operation for more than two and a half years and has held a total of 16 meetings to date, with an average of 70 people attending each meeting, including members of this parliament, representatives of the european commission and also representatives of industry and the main consumer and business associations. in this context, the presence of vice-president neelie kroes and commissioner barnier at one of these meetings in june 2012 is noteworthy. this resolution is largely based on the work and conclusions reached at all the meetings and also on the reports mentioned above, but it is not limited to that. what we're voting on here is something much more important. we are now about to close the circle we started years ago with a strong parliamentary declaration that shows this commitment and in which we ask the other institutions - the commission and the council - to commit themselves equally to implementing the policies needed to make it effective. we have commissioner barnier here today, who has done a great job of bringing this about and has shown a great willingness and determination to make words into deeds. other commissioners have also made a major contribution to the fact that we are now definitely moving towards the achievement of a true digital single market. we have passed a number of legislative and non-legislative proposals during the course of the legislature and are in the parliamentary process to make a major step towards this goal. today i am talking, for example, about the consumer rights directive, the online dispute resolution regulation, the work on intellectual property rights, cloud computing, data protection, connectivity, to name just a few. let us do it and let us continue to work together towards the realization of the dream of a true digital single market in europe. i have always said, and i will continue to say, that the way out of the crisis is also digital. let's make it a reality.
mr president, commissioner, i will try to make efficient use of my 90 seconds, but i cannot help but start by congratulating the rapporteurs, my colleagues malcolm harbour and pablo arias. information and communication technologies are being a definitive accelerator of the development of this old project, which is now more than 50 years old and which is at the heart of the european project, which is the european internal market. information and communication technologies have been helping to make the european internal market fully operational over the last five years, developing that part of the market which we call the 'digital market', but which is only one aspect, one dimension, of the european internal market. i want to focus on an aspect which i think has not yet been sufficiently addressed by all of us who are putting our energies and efforts into this: the full digitalisation of the public sector. the public sector is of decisive importance in europe, it is an accelerator. if we really achieve full digitisation of the public sector, of european public administrations, we will be driving the development of the internal market and, with it, the european digital market forward at an extraordinary speed.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur for presenting a serious problem: saving public services such as health and social care. the troika's interference in national budgets, as well as the anti-social and austerity measures of some member states, have a direct social impact with consequences of poverty and social exclusion. these services are key, given the demographic and social consequences of the crisis, the severe impact of the crisis on access to healthcare for vulnerable groups is evidence of the severe austerity and social cuts that some member states have been pursuing. europe was an example of a social model and now europe is on the way to reducing social welfare, access to public services and equal opportunities. we are talking about the most vulnerable citizens, the most deprived, the most excluded, the poorest, those who have become poorer as a result of the crisis. we have almost 25% of people in europe who are not living in poverty. now, the face of the vulnerable person is not the same as it was a decade ago, now, anyone can be vulnerable: by losing a job, by losing a home, by having a low salary, by being young or by being old, any group can be chronically poor. we are seeing, without a doubt, the emergence of a new group of vulnerable women and men, the new needy. public services are therefore of great importance to our lives and their dismantling is evidence that the current european construction is contrary to essential human rights, preferring to dismantle basic services rather than support them. under the pretext of the crisis, many member states have consolidated the privatisation of health, promoting two types of health, one for the rich and the other for the poor, reduced services, limited public access to certain groups to health care and reimbursement of certain treatments, medicines, prosthetics, essential food, reimbursement of ambulance programmes, and social services such as addiction. some member states have also created barriers through social security rules. examples include cases where health insurance ceases after a period of unemployment or where systems deny access to urgent primary care for certain groups, such as undocumented immigrants, as is the case in spain. or the cases where systems that only consider full-time workers to the detriment of part-time or casual workers. women, especially ethnic minority women and migrant women, are also particularly disadvantaged. some member states are modifying or reforming their social security systems, and the number of people experiencing homelessness or in short-term accommodation is increasing in some member states, which in many cases jeopardises the continuity of social services. increasing co-financing costs and revenues are preventing these people from seeking care at an early stage, leading to the incidence of later, more expensive and urgent health care. the shame and stigma of seeking care for certain diseases, such as aids or even cancer, also leads to reduced services. the same applies to the wage cuts resulting from the abandonment of support, which have resulted, for example, in the closure of basic hospitals, as happened in galicia, my country, or in the case of health workers who emigrate, such as spanish nurses who go to the united kingdom or germany. examples of cuts in investment, as happened in my country, where 650 000 galicians are excluded, where 17 000 households do not receive a single euro and where 50% of young people are unemployed. please react to this very serious problem.
madam president, i would simply like to add that these issues are sometimes used by the left to the detriment of the work being done by governments, for example the european people's party in spain, where we are particularly interested in social issues, also because of the crisis that has affected us, and my government is demonstrating this. we are also working together on such important issues, for example, the issue of children, which is a very affected sector of the population. we are also now providing european lines of communication, such as the 116 telephone, so that children can express all the issues they are suffering at the moment. it could be mistreatment, kidnapping, or something else. there is a lot going on in the european union; it is a population that is also very much affected and i would like to ask in this speech that this issue be really addressed as a priority, which i know it is for the european commission. i would also like to see this parliament discussing this matter more and taking decisions on this matter.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, despite the ratification in this house of an agreement between the current georgian government and the european union, this aid is subject to the eu's objectives in terms of neighbourhood policy and free trade agreements. the european union is pursuing a policy of expanding its market as a means of stimulating the process of capital accumulation in the main european industrial centres. this leads to the provision of macro-financial assistance to georgia with the aim of laying the foundations for future economic cooperation towards the economic objectives of large european enterprises, including the financial sector. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. following the second reading vote on 11 december 2012 and given the will to conclude the conciliation as soon as possible, the constituent meeting of the ep delegation to the conciliation committee took place on 5 february 2013 in strasbourg. the ep delegation decided to give a mandate to the ep negotiating team to enter into negotiations.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new attack on the freedom of european citizens to use information systems. the report aims to bring criminal law closer to the violations that may occur in the field of information systems. this is a completely repressive approach to network security breaches; this would be an attempt to criminalize any form of cyber attack regardless of the intentions or objectives of the attack. this implies a criminalization of different actions that many social groups are carrying out through information networks as a form of peaceful protest. this criminalizes the actions of different platforms that have been able to reveal secret information of fundamental interest to all citizens. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against it. the ep's plenary has approved a new cybersecurity directive which imposes stricter penalties on cybercriminals. the legislation, already agreed with the member states, aims to facilitate prevention and to promote police and judicial cooperation in this area. in the event of a cyber attack, eu countries must respond to information requested by other member states within a maximum of eight hours. the problem, once again, is the confusion between security and rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is one of the only political resolutions that a european institution has published in the wake of the scandal caused by the leaks by edward snowden. the government of the united states of america has been spying on numerous member states of the european union. the resolution expresses concern at the eavesdropping and calls on the us government to make available, without undue delay, all information which may shed light on the facts. the report does not, however, call for the negotiations on the transatlantic agreement to be stopped, as any responsible authority should do, but it does express concern and seek accountability for the violation of international law that this eavesdropping scandal entails, as we in the gue/ngl group have been calling for.
in writing. for however, the european parliament has today missed the opportunity to put its words into action. the conservatives and social democrats are shouting outrage, but they are refusing to vote for the suspension of the negotiations, a suspension which would send a clear political signal to the us administration and the european leaders. unfortunately, our amendment to suspend the start of negotiations until binding data protection legislation has been adopted did not receive a majority. however, we want to give european citizens the opportunity to make their voices heard and to put pressure on the european commission, and to this end we have launched an online petition calling for the free trade agreement negotiations not to be opened.
in writing. - although there are no problematic aspects to this report, i could not vote in favour because i believe that political parties and their members should be the legitimate actors who decide on european candidatures. the report proposes that more women should be included, encourages public debates on television, calls for campaigns to promote the european elections in the member states, etc. all to improve participation levels in the next elections. the low level of participation in the european elections contrasts with the importance that this institution is taking in the lives of citizens, but to promote participation must be done from the encouragement to popular participation in decision-making. this report attributes the low participation only to communication failures in the member states and that is why i could not vote in favour.
in writing. the report adopted in plenary is an ambitious text which encourages european political parties to campaign on genuine european agendas and to be fully involved in the election of the next president of the european commission, who will be elected for the first time by an absolute majority of the newly elected assembly. in a new democratic process, each european political party will have to nominate a candidate for the presidency of the european commission. i am glad that our colleagues have supported the proposal by mr bélier to organise debates between these candidates which will be visible and translated for all the citizens of the union. it is regrettable, however, that the amendment in favour of a strict requirement of parity on the lists of candidates for the european elections has been rejected in favour of a weaker wording.
in writing. - the european parliament elections next year are of crucial importance. in his report, andrew duff lays the foundations for the best possible development of these elections and encourages both political parties and voters to become aware of the importance of these elections. the 2014 elections will be the first to be held after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon which significantly extends the powers of the ep, including its role in electing the president of the commission. citizens and political parties at european level must rise to the challenge. the ep is the only community institution that guarantees direct representation of citizens. political parties are also the main actors in the european political space and must therefore contribute to the formation of european political awareness and express the will of the citizens of the union. the european elections in may next year should serve to legitimize an integration process going through difficult times by increasing public confidence in the most successful political project of the 20th century.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this resolution because it proposes a very uncritical assessment of the eu's role in the arms trade. the report is empty and ineffective and will have no effect on the european arms industry. it is a display of militarism on the part of the european right-wing parties, which have brought this resolution to the house to protect the interests of the death industry. our group, together with the greens and the socialists, has tabled an alternative resolution calling for greater control and seeking to strengthen the control that must be exercised over the european arms industry. this resolution is a decaffeinated by-product which does not put any pressure on industry and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − in favour of rc-b7-0258/2013 and b7-0258/2013, and against rc-b7-0260/2013. we are extremely disappointed with the resolution tabled by the conservatives and liberals as it does nothing to improve the eu’s arms exports regime. sadly, there is a big divide in the european parliament between meps that prioritise defending human rights and meps that are concerned with the interests of the military industry. the adoption of this very conservative resolution means that the european parliament has totally failed to put pressure on the council to introduce further transparency and anti-corruption measures or ensure stringent respect for human rights regarding its arms exports. the resolution is shamefully weak on human rights. the principle of respecting human rights when deciding on where european armaments can be exported has been the key added value of the eu common position. unfortunately the resolution adopted today by the conservative-liberal majority is even less progressive than the position of many of our member states which are currently trying to improve the common position. i regret that the liberals did not support the much more progressive resolution tabled by the greens and socialists. until recently, the liberals had shown understanding of our concerns on the eu’s arms exports and their sudden alliance with the conservatives has been very detrimental.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the opening of negotiations for a multilateral agreement on services. the creation of a negotiating table is necessary to reach a synthesis that can offer the services sector adequate guarantees in terms of transparency, competition, licensing requirements and sector-specific regulations. this is without prejudice to the right of each member state to adopt rules justified by reasons of public policy. otherwise, the multilateral agreement on services, like other types of agreements concluded by the union, should maintain these cornerstones in order to ensure a high level of efficiency in the provision of services and a satisfactory economic return for the actors involved in the sector.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is an attempt to promote the implementation of the general agreement on trade in services (gats). the agreement relies on international trade as a way of developing the sector, but it is simply a way for large multinational companies to concentrate production and reduce the presence of small entrepreneurs who still manage to survive in the sector. the agreement also contains numerous recommendations aimed at introducing cost-efficiency criteria and private enterprises in the provision of essential public services, despite the fact that it has been shown that this almost always increases the cost of services. the resolution deplores the failures in the implementation of these agreements and calls for their improvement to promote international trade in services. i have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − against. we would have preferred our text b7-0317/2013 to be adopted, according to which we must take the view that the multilateral trading system remains the most legitimate and most effective framework for achieving equitable and fair trade rules worldwide. it notes with concern that new initiatives to give impetus to the development of trade rules, such as the plurilateral negotiations on a trade in services agreement (tisa), are being negotiated outside the framework of the wto, and stresses that it is of the utmost importance that new initiatives remain firmly anchored in the wto framework.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it represents a position which demands compliance with free trade agreements without regard for any other objective than the interests of the large exporting companies in the european union. the political line taken by the european parliament is completely neoliberal and seeks only to put pressure on the norwegian authorities to improve export conditions. i believe that international trade is not the only way to develop a people and their economy and i believe that it is entirely legitimate for a country to decide unilaterally to protect its economy through a tariff policy. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. i have voted against all of this.
in writing. − against. our amendments were largely defeated.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is committed to the principles of the single market and insists that the competition mechanisms should be the only ones to manage european digital life. the resolution stresses a number of measures that member states must implement to ensure the completion of the digital single market, including the need to harmonise the vat system and to promote common management systems for rail, air and other modes of transport. many of the eu's economic problems are due to the integration of very disparate productive structures. doing the same in the digital market will encourage business concentration in the sector and the loss of thousands of small businesses and self-employed people who are developing the sector at the moment. izquierda unida is committed to less liberalisation and increased state participation as a way to guarantee the security and privacy of the digital single market. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. greens/efa tabled one amendment, to delete paragraph 31 ‘welcomes the commission’s intention to come forward with a new notice and action scheme to clarify the role of intermediaries as set out in the ecommerce directive in preventing illegal content, whilst ensuring freedom of expression’. we knew that our amendment would never pass; it was more of a political statement. in the imco vote, an oral amendment was adopted ‘welcomes the commission’s intention to come forward with a concrete proposal to clarify and offer a clear interpretation and guidance on the functioning of notice and action procedures’.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an important call to stop the onslaught of austerity economic policy, because of the harmful effects it is having on public health policies. the report accuses the member states of failing to guarantee equal access to the right to health for the vulnerable sections of society. the report argues that austerity measures are increasing the risk for the most vulnerable groups: young people, children, the elderly, women, etc. who suffer from increased health costs and a significant reduction in the quality of health care. although this report will not be binding on the member states, it does support many of the principles which must be followed by an effective health policy and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. i fully congratulate my colleague jean lambert for having led the issue. we welcome the parliament’s support for this report which speaks out on the effects of the crisis on the most vulnerable in our society in terms of access to care, support services and healthcare. this vote sends a message to the european commission and eu governments on the need to ensure that austerity measures do not undermine eu values and prevent the most vulnerable citizens, such as undocumented migrants, children from poor families and the homeless, from being able to access healthcare, care services and basic living support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a proposal to launch a debate at european level on the connection of traditional communication mechanisms to the new possibilities offered by the internet. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the internet offers the possibility of developing a two-way relationship with the information the user receives and thus overcomes the one-way nature of traditional media. practically all european citizens have access to television media and therefore a proposal to strengthen the possibility of opening this medium to the internet can improve the capacity to obtain and share information in the european union. the technological means exist to do this and raising the debate is a necessary first step. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. at first sight, it seems as if connected television raises only technical issues. what is basically at issue, however, are the availability, accessibility and findability of media content and whether, and if so by what regulatory means, media services can be treated differently in a convergent world. the media are of a dual character: they are goods, but they are also, and above all, cultural assets, and as such they are of particular social importance. the diversity of the media and freedom of opinion, the press and information contribute substantially to the functioning of our democratic societies. the media have educational, informative, entertainment and watchdog functions. this is the basic reason why in the eu and the member states media policy is governed not only by competition law and/or commercial law but by separate regulations which take into account their special character as outlined here and their particular importance to society. the convergence of technologies, which has reached a new peak with connected tv, will not change this in any way.
in writing. − with the adoption of the amending budget, oda no 1 of 2013, for which i am rapporteur, we have ensured that the necessary amounts in commitments and payments are entered in the 2013 budget to cover the expenditure related to the accession of croatia as the 28th member state of the european union, as from 1 july 2013. thanks to the european parliament's battle against the council, which had initially refused to make available fresh and additional resources for the 2013 budget, croatia will have ensured adequate financial coverage for the start-up and proper implementation of all community policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives a good assessment of the council's position on the amending budget relating to the expenditure of croatia's accession. the report deplores the attitude of the council, which has had difficulty in reaching an agreement which has allowed the release of funds to be allocated to croatia. the amending budget is purely technical in nature and its discussion was intended to introduce political positions on funds which had already been agreed with croatia and which the eu was obliged to pay. this delay indicates the fragility of the european union in discussing any budgetary matter and it undermines the seriousness of the financial commitments made with the new member states or the new candidates. the report deplores this attitude on the part of the eu and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. our group does not want to accept another watered-down budget compromise and allow another victory for the budget hawks in the council, especially in times where the eu budget is already running dry. a tough line on the ep side would result in those member states making a communication issue of this dossier – ‘we are taking money from the inefficient eu administration to finance the croatian accession at a time of crisis’ – to face for once the consequences of their positions. indeed, their relations with croatia, which takes part in the negotiations as an observer, would rapidly deteriorate and we would avoid for once another victory by the budget hawks in council.
in writing. − in parallel with oda 1/2013, the commission presented a proposal for a revision of the current multiannual financial framework, for the period 2007-2013, in order to amend it in order to take into account the expenditure resulting from the accession negotiations of croatia. i am in favour of approving the revision, but i regret the council's choice to compensate for the necessary commitment appropriations by reducing the resources in heading 5, which is devoted to administrative expenditure, instead of using fresh resources, as it did for commitment appropriations. this can set a dangerous precedent and sends the wrong political signal not only to croatia but also to all the other candidate countries. nevertheless, given the political importance of croatia's accession and the legal urgency of securing the necessary funding, i think it is right to vote today on the revision of the mff.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a decision of the european parliament and the council which definitively guarantees the mobilisation of the funds committed to croatia. the report also includes some criticism of the delays the council has caused in the procedure and maintains that this should not set a precedent, in the future it must be ensured that the eu meets the financial commitments made to member states or candidate countries. the decision adopted in this report makes available to croatia the funds which were committed during the accession negotiations and is therefore the definitive mobilisation of funds for croatia. i consider this decision to be essential in order to respect the commitments made with croatia and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − against. the commission has proposed, as usual, financing the croatian accession with additional budgetary appropriations, which would mean eur 655 million in commitments and eur 374 million in payments for 2013 and a corresponding increase in the current mff. however, a minority of member states in the council wanted to finance this via budget transfers, thus decreasing appropriations elsewhere (mostly for eu administration). this position was voiced after the council had waited for eight weeks to allow national parliaments’ scrutiny, thus limiting the time for negotiations with parliament. our group does not want to accept another watered-down budget compromise and allow another victory for the budget hawks in the council, especially in times where the eu budget is already running dry. a tough line on parliament’s side would result in those member states that make a communication issue of this dossier – ‘we are taking money from the inefficient eu administration to finance the croatian accession in a time of crisis’ – to face for once the consequences of their positions. indeed, their relations with croatia, which takes part in the negotiations as an observer, would rapidly deteriorate and we would avoid, for once, another victory by the budget hawks in the council.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is a work plan which reinforces the absolutely neoliberal nature of the commission's work in 2014. the resolution in its first part sets out priorities, mentioning employment, democracy, etc. but ends by expressing a satisfactory opinion on the mfp agreement, which it considers satisfactory that there are not enough resources to achieve these objectives. in the second part, he makes specific proposals which are of an extreme neoliberalism which will only lead to the impoverishment of europeans. the resolution puts forward the economic and monetary union as essential and goes on to present a mantra on competitiveness at different levels, with the intention of breaking all the written and working for the interests of the big multinationals. the gue/ngl group presented an alternative work plan which has obviously been rejected by the european parliament, accepting the one which presents the hard year of attacks which the commission is preparing for the peoples of europe. that is why i voted against.
in writing. − against. the epp and the ecr groups have succeeded in deleting the most ambitious passages. the text remaining is far too weak.
in writing. - the top priority for next year is, in my view, growth to create jobs, which in turn will strengthen the eu's competitiveness. the european commission is facing a series of key challenges for the future of the union in 2014, from the commitment to a genuine economic and monetary union, to improving the governance of the single market, to enhancing europe's role on the international stage by confronting other international actors and emerging powers. the financial, economic and debt crisis has highlighted the need to strengthen democratic accountability and control. we must regain the confidence of the european citizens, but also the confidence in the european project. the european parliament calls for greater involvement in the area of economic governance and is committed to helping citizens better understand the situation and the measures taken at eu level to combat and manage the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a way of supporting the historic mobilization of the egyptian people against president morsi, which has led to his overthrow. it is worrying that this has finally come about through a military coup d'état which has brought an end to his mandate and the recent constitution which he drafted. during the last few days, the egyptian army has been blamed for numerous civilian deaths that must be stopped immediately. this resolution calls for the restoration of democracy and the holding of elections as soon as possible. this must be the eu's position in order to ensure that democratic progress in the country is made and that action is taken on the main problems that have led to the mobilization of egyptians: inequality, impoverishment and the lack of social rights. i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution in support of the legitimate demands of the egyptian people.
in writing. − in favour. the resolution on egypt in light of the recent developments was entirely replaced by the following oral amendment: ‘– having regard to the statements of general abdul fatah khalil al-sisi, chairman of the supreme council of the armed forces of egypt, of 4 july 2013,‘a. whereas, in its statement of 4 july 2013, the supreme council of the armed forces announced the suspension of the constitution, the transfer of power to the head of the high constitutional court until early presidential elections are held, to be followed by parliamentary elections, and the forming of a national coalition government and a committee to look into amendments to the constitution; whereas mr adly mansour has been sworn in as interim president;‘1. expresses its deep concern at the situation in egypt following the military intervention; underlines that power should be transferred to democratically-elected civilian authorities as soon as possible; expresses its fundamental solidarity with all those egyptians who cherish democratic aspirations for their country and calls for a rapid return to the democratic process, including the holding of free and fair presidential and parliamentary elections in a fully inclusive process with the participation of all democratic actors;’.
the rapporteur. - mr president, what i want and what my group wants is not only to establish but also to strengthen a common visa policy which is fair and which is based on solidarity. mr president, my colleagues and i have been negotiating an interinstitutional agreement for over two and a half years. and we have finally achieved unanimity in the council. the council agrees with our text, and this has been possible because i have worked hard to preserve as far as possible the european parliament's sphere of competence, taking account of the union's external interests and strengthening its diplomatic relations through the exercise of those by the commission, mr president. we're not going any further with the council. that is why i want parliament to speak, and to speak by debate and vote, mr president. it is purely a political decision of great importance which i want to be debated and which i want to be voted on.
on behalf of the ppe group in this case, mr president, the order of voting must reflect exactly the correctness of the procedure. the conference of presidents decided that the plenary should choose between bahrain and guatemala. then, in accordance with our rules of procedure, a political group - mine - objected to these two urgencies and proposed instead the ashraf camp, for obvious reasons, since there are 3 000 people who could be massacred next week. so, mr president, what we are proposing, because we believe that is what the rules of procedure say, is to vote between guatemala or bahrain - that is a possibility that would be clarified later - or ashraf. this should be the first vote: ashraf on one side and the guatemala/bahrain couple on the other. and once this vote is taken, if necessary, there will be another vote. but if we do not vote in this order, we are not reflecting the good progress of the procedure.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, tomorrow you will vote on the text of the directive on the right of access to a lawyer and to communicate upon arrest. that will be a big moment: i believe it will be a moment which shows that the european union stands for the rights of the individual. i would like to congratulate your rapporteur, ms antonescu, because not only was this difficult work, but she also had to exercise great diplomacy. together with the shadow rapporteurs, she succeeded in retaining the ambition of this very important directive, and that is an achievement of which this house can be proud. i would also like to echo the rapporteur by including the irish presidency in my tribute. building on the work of previous presidencies, it negotiated very hard to get the job done and to reach a good agreement. it is just over two years now since our proposal was tabled in june 2011 and, thanks to the commitment and spirit of compromise on all sides, an agreement has been reached. i know that the discussions were not always easy – it was hard to find compromises, for instance on the matter of remedies and on derogations – but we now have a text that retains the original level of ambition and is compatible with the standards of the european court of human rights. for me, access to a lawyer is at the core of procedural rights, and it is central to what citizens and practitioners across the union expect from us. there are 8 million criminal proceedings in the eu every year, and the right of defence for anyone suspected of a crime is recognised as a basic element of a fair trial. under this directive, citizens will have a right to have a lawyer present when they are questioned by the police. when a suspect is arrested, he or she will have the opportunity to communicate with family. if suspects are outside their country, they will have the right to be in contact with their country’s consulate. very importantly too, the confidentiality of meetings and any form of communication between a suspect and his lawyer will be respected in order to ensure the effective exercise of the rights of the defence. the derogations are very narrow and limited to exceptional circumstances, such as geographical remoteness. persons subject to a european arrest warrant will have the possibility of legal advice both in the country where the arrest is made and in the country where the warrant was issued. this dual representation is a major novelty being introduced by the directive. it will serve to increase the effectiveness of the european arrest warrant and will guarantee the applicability in practice of the rights concerned. it will also be our task to look at the implementation of this directive, crucially with regard to consistency with, and the practical applicability of, existing eu legislation such as, for example, the european arrest warrant. the directive thus makes a decisive contribution to strengthening the mutual trust that is needed to implement the european arrest warrant or other eu mutual recognition instruments. after its final adoption, we will have to work on the transposition of this piece of legislation. the commission will closely follow how the directive is transposed in the member states’ legal systems and will scrutinise how things work in practice. in due time, it will present a report evaluating the directive’s implementation on the ground. i am very proud of what we are doing here and what we have achieved in the area of procedural rights. remember that we have a directive on interpretation and translation, a directive on the right to information and, now, a directive on access to a lawyer – and in parallel we have been working on the victims directive, which was adopted last year and which ensures that victims are treated with respect, that they have procedural rights to be informed, supported and protected, and that they have access to justice and can actively participate in criminal proceedings. step by step we are strengthening the european area of justice and the rule of law that binds the european union. to round up our work on the procedural rights agenda, the commission intends to present measures on the presumption of innocence, on special safeguards for suspects and accused persons who are children, and on legal aid. it is still my intention to present these this autumn. let me conclude by stressing that i have the greatest respect for the european parliament’s role as co-legislator in the area of criminal law. we have made great progress and i think it will be important during the european election campaign to tell our citizens about parliament’s contribution as co-legislator to what has been achieved and about the success stories.
mr president, as the alternative rapporteur for this directive from the socialist group, i would like to stress, again today, that tomorrow we are going to vote on a very important part of the package of procedural guarantees which the swedish presidency has started by drawing up this road map. this package was urgent if we wanted to make a europe of law. so far, we have fought for a secure europe with the european arrest warrant, although we hope that the commission will address its evolution and reform as soon as possible. but now, with this directive, we are also making it possible for this europe to be fairer, also for people who have a european arrest warrant on them. in this directive we have fought for everyone to have a lawyer from the moment they know that they are suspected. i have to say to mrs antonescu, to the commission and to the irish presidency that we have finally managed to reach agreements on very important issues, because this is not a directive on combating terrorism but a directive on guarantees. so everything we have achieved on confidentiality, on limitation, on exceptions, etc. becomes one big text. unfortunately, this right of access will not be a reality for everyone. the commission has refused to include free legal aid in this right, where the suspect has no financial means. nor does it consider the case of the disabled and minors. as this legislature is far advanced, we fear we are setting the minimums only for those suspects who can afford this right of access. neither the vulnerable nor the minors are here. let us hope that this legislature will not put an end to this serious deficiency.
mr president, this directive strengthens the criminal procedure: it provides for more guarantees, more justice and better quality. suspects and accused persons shall have access to a lawyer from the earliest stage of the proceedings, whether or not they have been deprived of their liberty; such lawyer may request a notification of the proceedings and, in addition, there shall be no limitations on the duration and frequency of his meetings. suspects and accused persons will have the right of communication at the time of arrest with a person of their choice and, last but not least, communications between the suspect and his lawyer will be carried out in strict confidentiality, without exceptions - in my view. i would like to congratulate elena oana antonescu on an excellent job which involves tremendous tenacity and dedication in the face of such a complicated issue and, finally, i would like to encourage the commission to present the report on free legal aid.
mr president, as a lawyer for four decades, i welcome the important step that is being taken today, but at the same time i regret that this directive does not cover the right to free justice, which is too scattered in the purely national sphere. i believe that free, quality and timely justice - as just said - as we conceptually have in spain thanks to the shift - even if the current minister does not show enthusiasm for the institution and the fair remuneration of young lawyers - would guarantee the rights of the accused and ensure faster and more consistent justice. it does not have to involve a higher cost to the public purse and can be beneficial for everyone, especially for freedom and democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs antonescu for her work. all the directives which are designed to affect the criminal systems of the member states are complex, but they contribute to improving the protection of fundamental rights. this directive will remind them all that the european court of human rights does not consider evidence obtained in police interrogations without lawyers present to be valid. it will also improve the procedures for complaints against exceptions to the general rule of facilitating access to legal aid. i hope we can make some progress next time. i understand the difficulties in the fight against organised crime, because we have suffered this scourge in my country, but i regret that these exceptions have led to some cases of torture. i believe that the video surveillance of incommunicado detentions, already implemented by the ertzaintza (basque police), prevents this risk. it might be a good idea to incorporate it into the minimum threshold of safeguards that all police forces in europe must observe. mrs. reding, remember this as good practice for all european police forces.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the iluc issue has been of great interest to many members for many years, and it has also acquired a significance in the pre-political space, which the commission has addressed in its proposal. mrs hedegaard and i have worked on this one. the commission will be making the final statement later. i have the right to say the opening words. indirect land use change through the use of biofuels in the european union is a serious challenge that we want to address, because we see that by making additions and corrections that can improve the renewable policy for the transport sector, its ecological representativeness can also be strengthened, and because on the other hand, in these corrections, we still want to protect the targets set and the investments built on them, to give them confidence. in our proposal we have extensively evaluated scientific contributions and analysed modelling. it is clear that, despite all the good scientific contributions, the ultimate safety in detail does not exist, but must be developed approximatively. the commission would like to thank mrs lepage for the leadership and the great care she has taken in drawing up this report. a valuable contribution to the decision-making process in parliament! we also thank mr vidal-quadras, who has done the same work with great intensity for the itre committee. i should like to comment on some of the points which are the subject of the commission's proposal and also of the envi report. when the commission proposal we had drawn up was presented, there was some indignation from the agricultural and biofuel industry. we were told that we would make a proposal based on only estimated iluc emissions, from - i quote - unsolid economic and biophysical models. i think we have now achieved a substantiation of the debate and also shown that the commission proposal, although subject to change in details, is broadly in line with market realities and also with our economic and environmental convictions. we know that science will continue to advance, and we want to include it in our work in the future. what is it about? we want to stabilise the sustainability status of biofuels, regardless of the country of origin and the raw material from which they are produced. this applies to the framework until 2020, and with the green paper we have already indirectly opened the discussion on how to propose further developments in the next decade in the field of mobility and renewable energies and within this in the field of electromobility and biofuels . what have we done now on the way to 2020 to address this problem? we believe that the 5% ceiling we are proposing for the share of conventional biofuels in the 10% target is the central element of our commission proposal. a cap on conventional biofuels at approximately their current market share provides a balance between limiting iluc emissions on the one hand and protecting investments already made by agriculture and industry on the other. this cap is an effective measure to limit iluc emissions and is in principle also understood and accepted by the public. on individual aspects of the debate: stronger incentives for electric vehicles are proposed cars powered by wind, solar or hydroelectric energy and thus not causing environmental concerns, do not cause iluc. however, we should be aware that electric mobility will make far less progress and have far less market share by 2020 than some people hoped three years ago. it has a future, we're working on it, but the deployment of charging stations, the range of cars, the cost of vehicles, all of these will trigger a longer structural shift from diesel and gasoline to e-mobility than some have hoped. we will have to continue to examine whether there should be national or european funding opportunities beyond those already created. it is proposed to introduce a multiple calculation for electric trains. we see this with skepticism and restraint. the non-road electric vehicles - railways in particular - are already making their contribution, and we should be encouraging change in our policy rather than considering existing environmentally friendly systems and thus reducing the level of demand. the overall target of 20% renewable energy, the specific target for the transport sector, but also the fuel quality directive are pillars of our energy and climate strategy, and i am confident that with iluc we will now bring about an improvement in this framework. in our current work on the proposal for a post-2020 energy and climate strategy, we should take these lessons into account and therefore work together early on the next decade, alongside today's proposal. i believe that a co2-free european union without biofuels is more difficult to achieve, and that is why we continue to believe that biofuels are an appropriate tool for the bio-economy, for aviation and also for other modes of transport. but they have to be really sustainable and affordable. that is why today's proposal will bring clarity to the economy, but also greater sustainability. let us keep up the pace of work over the next few weeks so that we can send an early, clear signal and bring clarity to the economy and agriculture for the next six years with a decision well before the election campaign for your parliament begins. i welcome the fact that both mrs lepage and the lithuanian president of the council are equally interested in a compromise at first reading. the commission is happy to do all it can to help achieve this.
opinion of the committee on international trade and development - mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on international trade, i have tried to balance and balance a subject which is not without controversy and media interest. it's been ten years since biofuels were regulated, and it was time to assess and know what emissions were being produced. the commission has not put forward a clear and sound measurement formula. the commissioner has just said 'defective' and he calls on the member states to comply. we socialists say, "no, this is not enough". we believe in the iluc, but we also want to believe in a model that can be measured and quantified, so that it doesn't hurt anyone. you just said they'll present it before the election. let us hope that this will lead to a solution. in the meantime, until the commission proposes a clear measurement model, let us try to support those biofuels which are less polluting, such as ethanol, and let us not harm raw materials such as straw, and also second generation biofuels, as this could have a negative impact on the market. and above all, in the committee on international trade we want agreements with third countries to have sustainability criteria. this is in your hands. you said 'open the debate', i suggest 'establish guarantees'. it looks a lot more serious to me.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, no one in this house disputes that indirect land use change exists and that it is a phenomenon that must be addressed. we all agree that we must put a limit on the production of conventional biofuels and encourage the development of advanced biofuels. the sensitive point is the iluc factors. the available studies based on models and not on direct measurement give different figures, and these will always be subject to change as more information becomes available or models are revised. furthermore, as models are refined, the factors go down. turning figures, which are currently being discussed and are rapidly evolving, into binding legislation for the member states, with potentially harmful effects on this booming industrial sector, is an imprudence which i hope the house will not commit. it is preferable to set a cap on conventional biofuels that is not detrimental to investments already made, combined with a specific target for advanced biofuels. we therefore share the aim of this legislation, but we are obliged to find a way of achieving it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the effects of biofuel production on forests, protected areas and agricultural production have been studied. but the commission has been hasty in legislating: we do not have conclusive data because the figures coming from third countries with very weak political and administrative structures are not reliable. the scientific data are also lacking to apply the iluc factor reliably and we will never get further investment in biofuels. the production of biofuels is already sufficiently controlled by the sustainability criteria adopted a few years ago, while many other sectors operate without meeting minimum environmental criteria in countries where social protection is simply non-existent. biofuels replace part of our oil consumption, reduce emissions, increase farm incomes and are a suitable way of managing some waste fractions, such as used oils, among others. the sectors involved need to be given certainty so that they can invest in these technologies. the european union must change its industrial policy and be consistent and have a policy that does not change because wrong rules are applied and rules that have not been sufficiently studied, as has happened for example with the ets. don't let the iluc do to us what happened to the other system. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr turmes, if we use criteria which are not scientifically reliable to have an objective criterion such as the one you mention, we will never have an objective criterion: it will be a wrong criterion and then we will be making a policy which we will have to change in a few years' time, as we do with other things. things must be studied sufficiently so that we do not have to go backwards. otherwise, we create tremendous insecurity in all investors, and that's why investments don't go forward.
mr president, we all agree that internal combustion engine-based mobility must be progressively replaced by cleaner mobility, but we have encouraged the use of biofuels as an alternative to fossil fuels. the entrepreneurs who have made a commitment to this initiative deserve to have the framework that encouraged them to make this commitment respected. the calculation of land use change indices, as well as the influence of biofuel production on the increase in food prices, have proved to be inaccurate, so much so that behind some of the arguments against this industry i see more black interests than green ones. so let us not change the rules of the game for biodiesel in europe halfway through and let us tighten and improve - if we do - the control of production processes and product quality, as well as measures to promote advanced biofuels. i therefore agree with the amendments tabled by the committee on industry, research and energy to this report, both on biofuel production and on the provisions for the regulation of forest biomass, and i shall vote accordingly.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i am grateful to parliament for the contribution our efforts are making to the completion of the internal market and for the fact that our communication on this subject has led to intensive and constructive consultation in parliament. the initiative we have today is fully supported. the question may be asked: why do we want to complete a single market for electricity and gas? we have the single market for other products and services. it is the foundation of the european union for 500 million workers, entrepreneurs, producers, consumers and service providers! electricity and gas were the late-born child here, they are only 17 and 15 years old respectively when they are subject to european law. we believe that electricity and gas are not quite the same as cars, textiles and food, but we are convinced that the internal market, when completed, will also bring benefits in the energy sector, first and foremost for the consumer, the european citizen, both in private life and in the workplace, in the household and in industry, if the citizen is empowered as a consumer. we therefore support the approach in your own-initiative report to put the consumer at the centre by calling for transparency, by giving him strong rights, by giving him opportunities for choice and exchange in competition, by also allowing him to be active and to become an exporter on the market, not only as a consumer but also as a producer and self-producer, through micro-production. that is why the two accounts today fit together. we believe that the single market has made great progress in the wholesale sector, but that the benefits of the single market have not yet been realised by the end consumer. in order to complete the end-user market, we must first of all promote the further development of networks at every level: transmission networks, cross-border networks, large super-line and pipelines. unfortunately, this often means that the distribution networks and their intelligent control are not adequately addressed in public debate, including the last meters and the intelligent recording of electricity consumption in households and industry on the spot. we are therefore faced with a vast new network whose standard-setting is our task. that's partly moderation and planning, where we can shorten approval times. but ultimately, the member states and their tsos, their utilities and their on-site approval procedures are just as important. we are often asked when the single market will be completed and we have the target of 2014. by 2014, we will have achieved a lot: common grid quality, common standards. but i would argue that completion will remain an ongoing task for many years to come, for example by strongly advising against any further regulation of consumer prices. we believe that regulated retail prices are not sensible. in some member states, retail prices are regulated and therefore do not represent the full cost of electricity production or gas purchase. then someone else will pay. the situation in spain in the electricity sector, where billions are lost, and another 5 billion are added every year, and this must eventually be paid for by the taxpayer, cannot be a solution. we believe that the right way is to have the price/price formation in the market, in competition, regulated by supply and demand and controlled by the regulator, and not to have the price regulated. we are currently having an emerging debate in the electricity sector on capacity mechanisms and backup strategies. the commission will be submitting proposals in the autumn. we believe that some backup potential is necessary to maintain security of supply in the face of an increasing number of still volatile renewables. but 28 capacity mechanisms parallel and separate fragmented we think are wrong. we believe that this is why the rapid expansion of interconnectors to compensate for the imbalances between member states is the right way, the more cost-effective way and the more market-oriented way. we are convinced that the clear definition of how the internal market is to be completed will also encourage private investment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings and industry, including the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard for buildings and industry. mrs merkies raised the subject of micro-generation. we believe, as you do, that micro-production will become more important, especially in the private sector, for its own use, but also for subcontracting to public networks. we believe that small chp plants can be of complementary importance here. what do we advise? it is often said that we need only large or only small installations. i think we should solve this. we need some large units in the future and an increasing number of decentralized small units. not either or, but both is the answer to our energy consumption! while some people talk only about production, others only about increasing efficiency, my advice is generally that we need more efficiency and yet modern, sustainable, affordable production. some people talk about offshore wind and desertec, others talk about the windmill, decentralized generation and geothermal and photovoltaic in the village. the energy demand of europe and the world will be so great that, in general, the answer is not either or, but both and, that is, everything. this is why we support micro-generation with our european programmes - a proven programme is the intelligent energy europe programme - both politically and financially, but also in research, and we will continue to do so in the coming years in our various activities, including smart cities and communities. we also need the member states on the subject of micro-generation. appeals from strasbourg alone will not help. if we, mrs merkies, turn to some of the member states of central and eastern europe with your idea, which i support, for example, the response is still relatively muted, because it is still thought of in large units and new large units. we are faced with the common task of forming opinions, also in this house, and of explaining this to our colleagues and of providing the necessary support to the local actors. i am grateful for both reports and hope that the adoption of the resolution will support our work also vis-à-vis the member states. there is a clear commitment in the european council, in parliament, in the commission to an internal market for electricity and gas, and we should see it completed in the next few years. the consumer will be grateful.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner oettinger, in the committee on industry, research and energy we are aware of the consensus that the use of micro-generation generates, but we are also aware that it will not solve the european union's energy dependence. but in any case, micro-generation must play a more prominent role in the european energy mix. we are aware of its advantages: its usefulness in achieving greater energy efficiency, through its use, especially, in public and private buildings to achieve zero or positive emissions; its usefulness for access to rural and isolated areas; its usefulness in the fight against the increasingly important energy poverty; or its usefulness in the fight against climate change, because renewable energy is used predominantly. but we have many challenges to solve: access to the grids of the system; in my opinion, the great value of microgeneration is not to dump energy into the system but to favor self-consumption. we must remove the bureaucratic obstacles to their development and, for their implementation and technological development, we must encourage access to european funds which clearly allow a more affordable price for the generation. and i ask the commissioner to keep an eye not only on the countries of eastern europe but also on other states, such as the spanish state, where the latest electricity reform has practically dealt a mortal blow to generation and microgeneration by limiting access to the networks.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, allow me to speak for my country for once and, in the context of these reports, to denounce the serious consequences that the reform of the electricity sector proposed by the mariano rajoy government will have on the renewable energy sector. it is a reform that throws away the enormous effort made in a sector in which my country had an impeccable record of meeting european objectives, with an alternative source of employment to brick, with highly competitive companies and leaders in technological innovation and also, and since we are talking about micro-generation, with an instrument of self-consumption that was already taking off. but if that were not worrying enough, it is also a reform which does not comply with community rules. the commission has therefore already initiated infringement proceedings against the electricity tariff law and i assure you, commissioner, that there will be many more. in my country renewables have become the culprit of a problem the tariff deficit that was actually created in 1997 by the government of josé maría aznar following the failure of its disastrous law on the electricity sector, but the price of a new regulatory failure is now not going to be paid by spain alone, it is going to be paid by the european union, because in short we are talking and with this i end ... (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, the energy model is one of the main challenges of our time, a challenge based on sustainability, the fight against climate change, the guarantee of security of supply with infrastructure and without bottlenecks and affordable energy. at the moment a report on reindustrialisation in europe is being discussed or is being worked on to get out of the crisis, and it is essential to establish these criteria to establish reindustrialisation in europe, to establish long-term investments. the commissioner himself has mentioned a country, spain, which spends 5 billion a year on energy. one of the fundamental issues for the internal market is the possibility of choosing to end monopolies, bi- and tri-polies, of striking a decisive blow against policies which are considered inappropriate, for example on renewables. the commissioner said earlier that there were countries which did not want to listen, because on some issues they will have to be told off.
mr president, equality between men and women must be guaranteed, that is what article 23 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union says, but there is a long way between the word and the deed, and the reality is that women are paid 16% less than men for work of equal value. my question is, ladies and gentlemen, does it seem fair to you that this should exist in the 21st century in the more developed countries? i do not, and that is why i am asking the commission to activate all the mechanisms so that the report on equal pay for men and women is promoted with the necessary measures, including even the revision of the current directive, since it has not been revised for a long time and we need to promote it. i think that as representatives of the people, we have to work for equal pay, because less pay means lower pensions, uncertain future and higher risk of poverty for women over 65. women work for free an average of 58 days more than men in europe. i think that is unacceptable and i think it is time to say enough! enough of the worst-known work and enough of the lack of transparency in many companies.
mr president, commissioner reding, colleagues, this wednesday, 11 september, is the national day of catalonia. this wednesday there will take place in catalonia a huge and passive demonstration, which we call the catalan way. more than one million people will hold hands in a 400 km-long human chain, asking for independence and for the creation of a new european state: catalonia. it will be the biggest demonstration for decades – a human chain inspired by the baltic way 20 years ago. we catalans want to decide our own future; our dream is to be able to vote peacefully and democratically to decide our own future. catalans want and hope to do the same as the scots, who, thanks to the democratic spirit of the british government, will vote in an independence referendum. let catalans vote!
mr president, commissioner reding, the day after tomorrow, wednesday, the national day of catalonia, at 5.14 p.m., hundreds of thousands of people will join hands to form a chain of more than 400 kilometres; hundreds of thousands of people who will be demanding the right to form an independent state in europe; hundreds of thousands of people who wish to exercise the democratic right to be able to freely decide their future as a nation. let us hope that the people of catalonia can exercise their right to self-determination and that the spanish state will not prevent them from doing so. let us hope that when the time comes the european union will not put obstacles in the way of catalan citizens being able to remain citizens of the union and that it will do the same for the basques, the galicians and other nations of europe. we call on all european democrats to support the catalan people in their struggle to exercise their right to decide, just as the scottish people will be able to do next year.
mr president, mr cramer, thank you for your work and that of your team, and thank you also for your receptivity. it has been a pleasure to work with you on this report on intelligent transport, because i really believe that it is one of the keys to a change in the mobility of european citizens. our contributions have sought to incorporate the perspective and participation of users and the experience of local and regional authorities into the management mechanisms of a future european intelligent transport plan. the first objective of this report is to improve the service they receive and to make them protagonists of a change of attitude which should promote and complete the possibilities of technology. local and regional authorities, on the other hand, are tackling and solving, with great innovation, the everyday mobility problems that affect the vast majority of european citizens on a daily basis. its proximity to users has proved useful in promoting a change in habits and attitudes. finally, we call for greater sensitivity from the type-approval authorities - innovation almost always moves faster than administrative procedures; a more open mindset from the administration is another incentive for the many initiatives that are evolving and adding possibilities to such efficient vehicles for urban mobility as bicycles, tricycles or e-vehicles.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cramer, and the committee on transport and tourism, as well as the whole house, for supporting our proposal to put european research and innovation in transport very high on the agenda. this is important for transport and it is equally important for growth and jobs. i would also, and most particularly, like to express our thanks for the numerous concrete recommendations and proposals. the commission will look at these and will certainly take up many of them because they will help us to implement the ‘transport’ societal challenge in the horizon 2020 programme and to set priorities for developing our transport system to become even more efficient, sustainable and user friendly in order to reach our mobility goals. so, thank you for this concrete and proactive proposal: it is going to serve its purpose.
mr president, i congratulate mrs kleva on this excellent report, which reminds us that we must focus on energy efficiency, which is necessary because it promotes competitiveness and contributes to security of supply. it is therefore regrettable that the resources of the european structural and investment funds earmarked for energy efficiency have not been fully used. i believe that resources and efforts should be concentrated on four priority actions: supporting efforts and investments in renewables; paying more attention to the links between promotion, energy efficiency, energy poverty and vulnerable consumers; achieving good results and taking into account the geographical specificities of the outermost regions. the next period 2014-2020 will offer new opportunities to ensure that erdf and cohesion funds are used to support this necessary energy efficiency.
the following is the report by mr antolín sánchez presedo, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on credit agreements for residential immovable property (com ((2011) 0142 c7-0085/2011 2011/0062 ((cod)) (a7-0202/2012).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial sector is not subject to excessive regulation. today we are debating and voting on the first mortgage directive in the european union. it's legislation of enormous importance to families and economic recovery. 70% of europeans live in their own homes, most of which have been purchased with mortgage credit. the volume of mortgages exceeds 52% of community gdp and its growth potential is considerable. in eleven member states its share of gdp is still below 30%. it is legislation that improves the single market, advancing financial integration. eight years ago the green paper proposed community action to lower the cost of credit, to expand the range of ancillary products, to reduce credit risk and to strengthen consumer protection. promoting responsible lending is essential to build confidence in mortgage markets, damaged by a crisis triggered by financial misconduct, and around housing markets. this directive, which is necessary to meet the commitments made within the g20, incorporates the international principles adopted by the financial stability board, placing the european union at the forefront of global mortgage law. it establishes a robust framework for a more transparent and professional, secure and competitive market with a high level of consumer protection and financial inclusion. lenders, intermediaries and their representatives must meet minimum requirements of competence and knowledge and must comply with obligations regarding their business conduct. the admission and supervision of all of them, including non-credit institutions, is ensured. personalised and comparable pre-contractual information in accordance with a european standard must be provided, the consumer's creditworthiness must be assessed and products which are artificially linked and do not respect the consumer's choice must not be marketed. the property valuation document, which was carried out by a professional valuator acting independently, must also be kept. the directive for the first time requires member states to take measures for financial education of consumers, a seven-day period for reflection on pre-contractual offers or withdrawals from contracts and the possibility of receiving advice based on the best interests of consumers and differentiated from mere commercial advice. provisions are made for contracts with special risks, such as foreign currency and variable rate mortgages. the commission will therefore be required to provide for a variety of calculations and scenarios and precise rules to mitigate exchange rate risks and avoid interest rate manipulation. the first response, in case of problems, cannot be foreclosure. surcharges for non-payment should be limited to compensating for the costs incurred and should only be authorised where member states set ceilings for them. member states, which may always take additional measures compatible with fair solutions to the problems arising from the crisis, may not prevent payment for services when the parties so wish and must ensure that best efforts are made to obtain the price of the goods executed. when debt exists, a minimum of survival must be ensured and over-indebtedness in the long term avoided. although the directive must be transposed within two years, its new principles should guide the application of the member states' national law from the moment of its entry into force. beyond the directive, further work is needed to ensure responsible lending. the directive identifies issues that need to be addressed in depth in its first review, such as traceability, the post-contractual phase, the availability and comparability of price data or the transparency of penalties. it also mandates the commission to draw up a report on private over-indebtedness, the monitoring of credit registers and the move towards more flexible and reliable markets. it is said that the european fiscal union will require the issuing of eurobonds. the full maturity of the mortgage market will come when there is a euro banknote market. this directive is a step in that direction. i am grateful to the rapporteurs and all the collaborators who have made this result possible.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank mr sánchez presedo for his efforts to try to make all the member states of the european union see that the first home is not a commodity, it is a right: a right that must be protected. unfortunately, the european commission has so far acted more like a branch of the big banks than as a body of the european union guaranteeing that right. in southern europe and elsewhere, evictions have created absolutely unnecessary pain (in greece, portugal, spain - in the latter country alone, 400 000 evictions) for people who are left on the streets, who have no protection; and the european commission is only interested today in securing the big profits of big banks. when attempts have been made to regulate it - for example, by the regional government of andalusia, in spain - the european commission has immediately said no, that it cannot be regulated by a decree-law guaranteeing the social function of housing. that is why this step is very important, and i thank mr sánchez presedo for continuing to work to make this right - the right to housing - a reality and a reality that must be protected in order to put an end to the financial frauds that the european commission and the central bank have encouraged.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the alternative rapporteurs, as well as the commissioner for the internal market, on the great effort they have made to get this directive through. it has been an honour to work with them on this subject of particular sensitivity for europeans and also for spaniards. as i said, this is one of the main directives of this parliament, since the right to decent housing is a basic right for all european citizens. mortgage loans are a particularly sensitive element, and the romans already gave them special protection. this protection, which is a longstanding european tradition, is reflected in the text we are voting on today. the protection of the borrower is a constant in the text, so the emphasis is on transparency between the parties, who are required to have minimum knowledge and competence requirements. as regards enforcement - a point of particular interest in my country - the directive provides for mandatory minimum requirements and the possibility for contractors to include a clause on the payment of a fee, as already provided for in the spanish legal order. in addition, spanish legislation on spanish loans has also been reformed and follows the line of this directive to avoid cases of abusive clauses and to ensure limits on default and that lenders negotiate before executing. it is therefore a particularly sensitive directive, and as such has been worked on by parliament, which will benefit the european citizen by creating a stable framework of greater legal certainty and uniformity in the european union. finally, i would like to call on the parties to unblock the remaining issues and this directive can become a reality as soon as possible.
member of the commission. - mr president, i shall be brief at the end of this debate, for which i thank you. many of you, firstly the rapporteur, mr sánchez presedo, but also mr schwab, and more recently mr pallone, mrs regner, mr de backer, mr lamberts and mr zalba bidegain, have stressed the importance of this text. i am speaking to outsiders, to citizens who are worried, sometimes angry, that this is the first time that the european union is building with you, with the council, a regulatory framework - which i believe is intelligent and protective - for the mortgage market throughout the single market. this is the first time! it's an important text; i would like to stress that the commission is ready to help in the search for an agreement on the last outstanding point and, as many of you have just said, mr pallone, in particular to help in the adoption, transposition and operational implementation of this text as soon as possible because it is necessary for the citizens. many of you have also spoken about consumer protection. the directive is part of a more general framework. i have said before this house that my priority this year, in 2013, is to complete all the regulatory texts but also to focus on consumer protection. this text is proof of that, but it is only one. other texts on your table also help to protect consumers and to draw lessons from the crisis: the prips directive, the revision of the insurance intermediation directive, and a very important text for me and for you, namely the one on access to basic bank accounts and transparency of bank charges. ladies and gentlemen, all these texts are on your table and on the table of the ministers. we must conclude them now, at any rate before the european elections, because this will be a proof of the concrete, citizen-led europe we are working towards. finally, mr schwab is right to point out that this directive is not the only answer to the crisis. mrs matias, i agree with you: there is no natural disaster. i have been very interested in natural disasters and the prevention of these risks in my public life for a very long time. it is not natural: it is really linked to this general deregulation, to this caricature of liberalism that we have allowed to develop for 20 years, all over the world, to bankers who thought everything was permissible and to whom we have allowed everything, by deregulating, by self-regulation. this is one of the results for tens of thousands of families around the world. so we have to prevent this from happening again. we owe it to the citizens and the taxpayers. the directive is therefore not the only answer to prevent the risk of these disasters, which are not natural. we've been working together since 2010 on a considerable architecture -- some even think it's far too much -- of reforms to strengthen financial sector stability, transparency, accountability -- we'll talk about that in a moment. mr de backer, we have no short-term memory, you are right to recall it. these serious events are not so far away and it is important to finally put back into the financial markets what had been lost: morality, a little ethics. to put these financial markets back at the service of the real economy, businesses, consumers and citizens. last week i presented, in the general context, a regulation on the 'shadow' banking system. next week i will be presenting a text on the regulation of benchmarks to avoid certain manipulations. we are continuing this work steadfastly, as i promised you nearly four years ago, and i am keeping that promise today.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, this was indeed a very important and very interesting debate; it was especially interesting that some of you recalled national practices. mr zalba recalled practices from his country. my conclusion is that really the consumer side is the most important side. i can understand why this is so; it is because in the mortgage deal it is the consumer who takes out the mortgage who is the weaker side of the contract. there is no politics involved; this is absolutely normal legal practice to defend the weaker part of the contract. we must do this by putting regulation in place, but by also by relying on market forces. of course, the market can resolve many, many difficult issues by itself, but this market should be regulated and this is one of the purposes of this directive. the real conclusion is that the consumer side is very important: mr de backer, mr strejček, mr lamberts, mr meyer, ms thein, and many other colleagues here in this hall have talked about this. but, this leads to another of my thoughts, which is that we really see it as urgent that this question be resolved. we have a piece of quite good quality legislation, but this quality is not perfect. mr pallone, i very much like your idea that if we look for perfection in legislation, as if we were looking for the most perfect car, we will end up with none. i agree with you, so i think that the urgency which was stressed in many of the contributions is really the urgency with which we should look for the result. i therefore call on you again to vote in favour of this directive so that we can finish with it at the first reading. i can promise that the council will be very happy to agree, as a co-legislator, to the final result voted today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used in a proper manner and that the european union's financial instruments are used in a proper manner. the only point on which consensus has not yet been reached, following the tripartite dialogues, to complete the legislative agreement, is the technical process for transposing the directive. the complexity of this financial regulation, which has prudential aspects affecting different legislative fields, deserves, in the opinion of parliament, adequate consideration. i therefore hope that the council will be able to accept our proposal in this respect and thus make it possible to reach an agreement at first reading for the benefit of our citizens. the result of this directive is a choral work, with a broad consensus, as is shown by the fact that no amendments have been tabled in the house. it is a good european example of how, despite our differences, we are able to work together and seek the greatest common denominator for our citizens, reaching compromises and establishing a negotiation with the council in which we have found reasonable and ambitious solutions. as rapporteur, i would like to thank all those who have been involved in this process over the almost three years it has been going on. i would therefore like to thank the alternate rapporteurs from the committee on economic and monetary affairs: alfredo pallone of the group of the european people's party; dirk sterckx, who was replaced by philippe de backer of the alde group; sven giegold of the green group; vicky ford of the ecr group; nikolaos chountis of the confederal group of the european united left; the chair, mrs bowles; and the vice-chair, mr zalba, who took part in the tripartite dialogues; as well as the opinion rapporteurs: alexandra thein of the committee on legal affairs; mr lechner of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, who was replaced by mr schwab; the secretariat of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, in particular mrs long; the administrators of the groups and our assistants. i would also like to thank the commission for its positive contribution and the council for its good attitude. i hope we can conclude this procedure shortly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse) (com (2011) 0651 - c7-0360/2011 - 2011/0295 (cod)) (a7-0347/2012).
member of the commission. - mr president, i should like to thank briefly the rapporteur, arlene mccarthy, the fictitious rapporteurs and all those who have spoken to highlight the importance of this text, such as mrs gáll-pelcz, mrs regner and mr klinz. this text is a fundamental step forward, since it has a very wide scope and provides for european supervision and common rules. this reform is part of our overall efforts to restore order, transparency, accountability in the financial markets, and also - unfortunately necessary, as we have seen - to take sanctions to deter or to repress. the proposal to regulate the 'shadow' banking system and the monetary funds is now on your table. we are continuing our efforts because, as mrs regner has said, we still have work to do in the months ahead. mr klinz said something important about the evolution of the financial markets, which is extremely rapid. we must be able to adapt, to evolve, to revisit this subject to try to keep up with the speed at which the financial markets are changing. sometimes, some in these financial markets will try to circumvent or circumvent the rules to avoid certain sanctions. again, we will have a short memory and we will have to be uncompromising. that is why the revision clause in this text is important: it will enable us to adapt the rules, to evaluate the content of this text which we are adopting today. mrs swinburne, you feel that the 15% penalty on turnover is not enough. i understand your point of view and i can agree with you on this, but it is a compromise between the various member states and parliament. i would remind you that this is a minimum which is now mandatory for the first time. there is nothing to prevent member states - including your own - from going much further if they find that 15% penalty not enough. in any case, we will assess this point, as we will all the others, in the context of the review clause. i want to emphasize that the signal that we are sending and that you are sending today by your vote is extremely important with regard to a number of people who have thought that everything was allowed in the financial markets, and to whom we had allowed everything. now, thanks to the vote of parliament and the work of the council, that will no longer be the case.
the rapporteur, mr president, has made a great deal of progress since we started this dossier. first of all, i would like to thank a lot of committed work: the work done by all my colleagues, the alternative rapporteurs; the work done by the commission, for its high-mindedness, its professionalism and its spirit of collaboration; the council, its different presidencies, which were the polish, the danish, the cypriot, the irish and the lithuanian; and, of course, the services of the house and, in particular, those of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. it has been almost two and a half years of negotiations, during which we have held, in addition to numerous technical meetings, eight tripartite dialogues and eight shadow meetings, which reflects the complexity but also the importance of this report. finally, and fortunately, on 25 june we managed to reach a majority agreement between the epp/ed, alde and ecr groups, together with the irish presidency, which was subsequently ratified unanimously by the council on 18 july. i appreciate all the agreements and i also appreciate the discrepancies. the discrepancies enrich the record and enrich the debate. and i would also like to thank the commission, with whom i would have liked to have had greater levels of agreement on certain points. but i am especially grateful for the sensitivity finally shown by the council and the present presidency, which saw that this was a good text and proved it by their unanimous vote in favour. the agreement reached strengthens the union's visa policy, making it even more effective, supportive and fair and protecting the rights of our citizens. the challenge we faced was difficult, but we managed to "recall all the sensitivities i believe" and give an intelligent response that guarantees solidarity and equal treatment for all european citizens. all this in a difficult balance, taking account also and especially of the union's foreign policy. we have made important commitments on issues such as visas for air and sea crews, as well as for members of rescue and emergency missions, for crews of ships on international waterways, for non-governmental organisations and for refugees - because of their uniqueness - in the uk and ireland. although the debate on reciprocity and suspension mechanisms has put these aspects on the back burner, the points i have just mentioned are also very important and provide answers to so many of the daily questions that need to be answered. we have indeed focused a great deal of our efforts on finding a balanced solution for the reciprocity and suspension mechanisms. we needed to find effective instruments of solidarity which, while not neglecting the union's external relations, would give a response of solidarity to situations of discriminatory treatment of our citizens. i understand and respect the concerns of some colleagues about the impact of these mechanisms on third countries, but we must protect european citizens and seek solutions to the problems that millions of citizens are currently facing. i think of poles, romanians, bulgarians, czechs or cypriots. this agreement contains this solution and also does not seek confrontation with third countries, all the while protecting the powers that the lisbon treaty gives parliament. we all know the horizontal problem of the use of delegated and implementing acts, but there is general agreement that this issue should be studied on a case-by-case basis. all the legal arguments are open to interpretation, but it is clear that the use of legislative mechanisms depends on the legal purpose behind the decision to be taken. the fact that the text was adopted unanimously by the council is proof of the suitability of these solutions, and that until july it had the almost unanimous support of all the political groups in this house. if we read the history of this file, we see that what we have today is a reflection of what we talked about in 2011, at the beginning of the debate. we all draw red lines that we have not crossed: automaticity, solidarity, interinstitutional equality and respect for the union's external relations. and that is why i can present this agreement to you today and defend it, knowing that it is the best answer we can give to the challenge we set ourselves more than two years ago.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, despite the problems with the reciprocity mechanisms which i explained in my opening remarks, i prefer now to focus on the positive elements of this compromise and, above all, on the fact that we will now have a suspension mechanism which ensures the credibility of our visa policy and provides it with a tool to fight abuses. rest assured that this mechanism is a last resort and that the commission will ensure that it is only used if and when all the conditions are met. the parliament will be regularly informed of the different steps related to the implementation of the two mechanisms. i am aware of the importance of ensuring visa-free travel between the schengen area and our closest partners and neighbours. arriving at the visa-free regime was often a long and complex process and we will not reverse it carelessly without considering all the consequences. let me say a few words on the western balkans visa policy. first of all, the suspension mechanism is not an instrument especially designed to cover the western balkan countries. it is of a general application for all countries enjoying a visa-free regime with the schengen area and could be applied to any of them, including any countries that will benefit from a visa waiver in the future. however, the situation in the western balkans requires our special attention. this is due to its impact on the eu’s enlargement policy and the eu’s visa liberalisation and asylum policies and practice on the one hand, and on the other hand it is due to still high but decreasing numbers of asylum applications by nationals of the western balkan countries in certain eu member states. we are working with the western balkan countries and affected member states to monitor the situation closely and find solutions. once the suspension mechanism is available we cannot exclude that, if the current situation continues, one or more member states will trigger the mechanism. it must, however, be clear that triggering this mechanism will not automatically lead to suspending the visa waiver. the commission will have to assess whether the conditions of the mechanisms are met and we have to assess the gravity of the situation. the parliament will be informed of the situation throughout the procedure.
the rapporteur. - madam president, thank you to all the colleagues who have enriched this debate with their speeches. the number of votes cast shows that the debate is important: 18 members took the floor to make a sincere and democratic statement. i thank all of them for their participation, both those who supported the report and those who expressed reservations. but there is a word for the commission and a question of substance. the commission has the following to say: mr mimica, who is to interpret the law? does the commission interpret it, does the council interpret it or does parliament interpret it? the commission has announced a statement to us - we knew it, we knew it was going to make that statement. we do not share your legal judgment as to the legality or illegality of the legislative proposal, because of the mix, if one may put it that way, in the field of the reciprocity of delegated and implementing acts. no, we shared it. and on the other hand, i would like to say something which is of great interest to you, especially after hearing your second speech. do you disagree with the report in general or do you agree with the report in b and not in a? i mean, do you agree with the suspension mechanism, which you have worked on much better than i have, and do you disagree with the reciprocity mechanism only in its legal form? the commission has not really brought any hopeful elements in the field of legal clarification. so i want you to convey my appreciation, my respect, to commissioner malmström, because i think she has followed this dossier with great interest and i think there is room for concertation and agreement. the rapporteur, commissioner, has strengthened the role of the commission and, above all, the diplomatic role of the commission. and indeed, the western balkans have nothing to fear. what the rapporteur has done is to create an instrument, a regulation, for solidarity and to respond to the lack of solidarity. so i want to end this talk by mentioning six names, six very powerful names. when i wrote this report i had them in mind; i had the croats, the cypriots, the czechs, the bulgarians, the romanians and the poles in mind. and for them i ask reciprocity, and for them i ask solidarity.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would just like to explain, in a straightforward way, that the commission is very much in favour of the reciprocity mechanism as stipulated in the regulation, but what we are not in agreement with is the legal solution – the legal mechanisms on how to enable this reciprocity in real life. the same goes for the suspension mechanism, which has the full support and full endorsement of the commission in terms of both elements – the political and institutional context, together with the legal context. i agree that there is room for further discussion and further agreement on this issue. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for his contribution and efforts throughout these long-standing negotiations and for the compromise that was reached.
the rapporteur. - mr commissioner, mr mimica, i thank you for these clarifications, which i consider timely, and above all i thank you for the effort you have made to defend the commission's position, because you are at a clear disadvantage. i am very familiar with the report, and my colleagues are very familiar with the report, and you have had to make an effort to replace mrs malmström. i appreciate it, i really do. but i think that you, regardless of your independence, who are recognised as a commissioner, will have difficulty explaining this point of view in your home country. he's going to have, frankly, political difficulties, and i don't wish him any. so i would like to bring together what separates us, and what separates us is simply the legal interpretation applied by the rapporteur in the reciprocity mechanism and the suspension mechanism.
the rapporteur. - mr president, after the tripartite dialogues, the only point of consensus that remains is a technical question concerning the transposition process. the position of parliament has been clearly stated. i therefore ask, in accordance with rule 57 (2), that the vote on the draft legislative resolution be postponed in order to complete the pending negotiations with the council as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the protection of marine organisms without endangering the continuity of the communities and regions which depend on this activity for the subsistence of their own population. the report proposes to amend the regulation to allow the commission to adopt delegated acts to reflect technical and scientific progress in this regulation. the amendment to the rules includes aspects relating to the consultation of experts and the prohibition of certain fisheries depending on discard levels. the obligation to report on delegations is included in order to ensure that such delegated acts last for the required duration. the benefits in the conservation of important species are the reason why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the commission proposes that implementing powers should be conferred on it for the technical rules for measuring mesh sizes, the square-meshed netting and twine thickness, the technical rules related to the construction of netting materials, the listing of devices that may obstruct or otherwise diminish the effective mesh opening in a fishing net, the transmission of lists of vessels to which a special fishing permit to use beam trawls has been issued, the technical rules related to measuring engine power and gear dimensions, the obligation of member states to ensure that levels of fishing effort are not exceeded in certain areas of ices division ixa, and the temporary measures where the conservation of stocks of marine organisms calls for immediate action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because registered partnerships in the eu, which have property in different member states, may be at risk because of the disparity between the different regulatory frameworks. in the union, there is a huge disparity in legislation on common law couples between member states, a disparity which does not affect marriage so much, and that is why this report proposes a rapprochement of the rules governing marriages, including the possibility of choosing the law to which a registered common law couple must comply, thus fulfilling the principle of equality in the eu charter of fundamental rights. i voted in favour of this report because it improves the protection of the rights of common-law partners.
in writing. − in favour. in 2007, there were about 211 000 registered partnerships in the eu, of which over 41 000 had implications for property in more than one member state. of these, 8 500 (4%) were ended by separation and 1 266 (0.6%) by the death of one partner. if decisions regarding property have to be taken during a partnership or after it ends, the parties concerned face complex issues, especially in relation to jurisdiction and applicable law. here – and to an even greater degree than with marriages – there are considerable differences between member states’ rules. this makes for considerable legal uncertainty. in the event of a dispute, it may – as in a marriage – be advantageous for the better-advised party to bring the case as quickly as possible before a court which he or she thinks will apply laws most favourable to him or her. the two juri reports are very good and improve the commission's proposals in a significant way. more specifically, the report on registered partnership is opposed to any central substantive distinction between the two proposals, namely the denial to registered partnerships of a choice of applicable law and the related choice of jurisdiction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it addresses the need to harmonise international civil law within the european union in order to improve the protection of matrimonial property. there are considerable differences between the civil law legal frameworks in the different eu member states which can create problems in the certainty of each spouse's rights depending on the member state concerned. the report is intended to improve the level of protection and guarantee of rights resulting from the legal form of marriage. as this report improves the levels of protection, homogenizes and clarifies the rights of the parties to a marriage in the context of the union, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. in 2007 , there were about 211 000 registered partnerships in the eu, of which over 41 000 had implications for property in more than one member state. of these, 8 500 (4%) were ended by separation and 1 266 (0.6%) by the death of one partner . if decisions regarding property have to be taken during a partnership or after it ends, the parties concerned face complex issues, especially in relation to jurisdiction and applicable law. here – and to an even greater degree than with marriages – there are considerable differences between member states’ rules. this makes for considerable legal uncertainty. in the event of a dispute, it may – as in a marriage – be advantageous for the better-advised party to bring the case as quickly as possible before a court which he or she thinks will apply laws most favourable to him or her. the two juri reports are very good and improve the commission's proposals in a significant way. more specifically, the report on registered partnership opposes to any central substantive distinction between the two proposals, namely the denial to registered partnerships of a choice of applicable law and the related choice of jurisdiction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is committed to the development of a more efficient and effective transport system in the economic, environmental and social fields. the report sets out a strategy for the european transport sector to optimise and rationalise its use, seeking to encourage new forms of transport such as car sharing or cycling. the report identifies the need to maintain fair prices and system-integrated tickets as key factors in public transport to encourage its use. the report also stresses the need for the sector to create jobs and to give importance to its social dimension, as well as the duty to improve working conditions. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because of all the improvements and support it offers for the sector, in a very general way.
in writing. − in favour. this report sets out to address the recent commission communication on “research and innovation for europe’s future mobility - developing a european transport-technology strategy”. i follow rapporteur's (cramer, greens) concerns with achieving the union’s targets in terms of the reduction of energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, ghg emissions, accidents and land use, thereby reducing the impact of transport on climate change and contributing to improving the health of eu citizens and their quality of life. he recognises that there are currently still many challenges that lie ahead in terms of better aligning research and innovation (r&i) to transport policy. he stresses the need to respect general principles such as technology neutrality, complementarity, accountability and transparency. he is particularly concerned that duplication of research efforts at national and eu level might hamper the progress urgently needed and calls for an efficient and coherent use of r&i resources.
in writing. − in favour. we welcomed the commission's proposal on access to a lawyer. prompt access to a lawyer is essential to allow the suspect or accused person to effectively exercise his or her rights of defence and ensure compatibility with the fundamental rights laid down in the eu charter and the european convention on human rights. in our view access to a lawyer should be granted in person before the start of any questioning by the police or other law-enforcement authorities, since that is the moment from which the suspect or accused person’s defence rights may be adversely affected (see salduz v turkey echr [2008] echr 1542). access to a lawyer can also be very important before evidence-gathering acts, such as but not exclusively confrontations with witnesses or victims, participation in identity parades or reconstructions of the crime scene.
mr president, if we had had this directive after the crisis caused by the american subprime mortgages, many european citizens would not be suffering evictions from their homes. it will provide more transparent information on mortgage loans, more fair and realistic appraisals, the right to early cancellation and warning of future risks for families: in short, it will improve consumer rights and provide greater protection for savers. member states may lay down rules for the appropriations, but they shall require the necessary cooperation and coordination of the regional authorities. it is a very important report for european citizens, a good reason to continue to have confidence in europe, and i would like to congratulate mr sanchez presedo on his work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the directive on credit agreements for residential immovable property. the directive should achieve a more transparent, efficient and competitive internal market. this is achieved through consistent and uniform, but at the same time flexible and fair provisions for credit agreements relating to immovable property, promoting sustainability in lending and borrowing and financial inclusion. these measures are designed to ensure a high level of consumer protection, which is even more necessary after the financial crash of 2008, which marked the beginning of the economic crisis and was rooted in the bursting of the residential mortgage bubble. the need to ensure equitable and sustainable access to credit and, at the same time, to guarantee the mortgage system, is at the heart of the text we have supported.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it introduces certain aspects which united left would agree with, it does so in the most general and abstract way possible, thus ensuring that the financial sector is not harmed. these aspects of the report are those proposed to increase consumer protection in relation to mortgage contracts, in order to prevent the excesses that the financial sector has committed with customers who were victims of completely abusive contracts. almost 400 000 people have been evicted since the start of the crisis with contracts that did not respect the rules and this report does not raise any action against a banking sector that has acted in a quasi criminal way. i could not vote for this report because of all that.
in writing. − we agreed to postpone the vote on final resolution. in committee, we obtained with regard to the aprc (annual percentage rate of change) that different scenarios for the development of interests must be made available. a similar result could be achieved with view to foreign exchange lending. however, our attempts to introduce some soft macro-economic rules (loan-to-value ratios) failed, despite the fact that it can be demonstrated that default rates are highly correlated with ltv ratios. to put in simple terms: the more money you need to borrow compared to the value of the property, the more likely are you to default. importantly, in trilogues, the final version foresees a standardised information document (esis), containing key data on the credit agreement in a comparable and transparent way. in particular foreign exchange and variable interest lending will be based on the presentation of the full costs. and foreign exchange lending must come with a warning highlighting the risk linked to the fluctuations of exchange rates. in case such a loan gets out of control, such loans may be swapped. concerning early loan repayments, the directive will protect against excessive penalties without hampering long-termist and generally safer fixed-rate loans.
in writing. - without proceeding to the final vote, pending agreement by parliament and the council on how to monitor the transposition of these rules by the member states, we have today supported the measures contained in this report which is intended to lay the foundations for the first european legislation in the field of mortgages. the report provides a series of measures to improve consumer protection against abusive banking and mortgage clauses. from now on, home buyers will be better advised on the costs and consequences of taking on a mortgage and better protected in the event of default. this is a regulation which puts the european union at the forefront of global mortgage legislation, a regulation which is all the more necessary in times of financial uncertainty.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because it seeks to boost the volume of activity in the financial sector by improving the security of large investors. the report seeks to introduce more effective control and supervision mechanisms in the area of the sale of financial products and capital markets. the aim of this report is to make capital markets safer to ensure that financial institutions cannot continue to develop abusive practices. however, the proposed mechanisms do not appear to be sufficient. the commission intends to try to give a boost to financial activity rather than making financial institutions pay for their excesses. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − only trilogue text was voted. the market abuse directive ("mad" - concerned with criminal sanctions for "market abuse" as defined in the regulation) and the regulation ("mar" - concerned with defining market abuse, provisions for detecting and preventing it and for setting administrative sanctions) the gravity of crimes of market abuse merits the application, where appropriate, of criminal penalties. the introduction of a directive aimed at harmonising the criminal sanctions regimes for market abuse across the eu is essential to ensure effective implementation of eu financial services legislation. the proposal for a regulation on market abuse adds a significant innovation to the current market abuse framework by providing a detailed list of infringements that must be sanctioned, a detailed list of measures and sanctions that must at least be available to the competent authorities and criteria for the application of sanctions. the proposal for a regulation makes it clear that these sanctions must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. in addition, since the adoption by com of its proposal, the libor scandal broke, making it necessary to reopen mad and mar for amendments to add specific provisions to tackle the manipulation of the many financial indexes that are used to determine payments on loans as well as securities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as did my group in this house, because i share the need to improve the technical measures for fishing gear which can reduce the impact of fishing activity and enable it to be maintained. in the case of the baltic sea, the belts and the sund, it is necessary to adapt the regulation in such a way as to allow for some flexibility in adapting the activity to the technological and environmental changes in the region. the report seeks to improve the regulation so that the commission's delegated acts should be reviewed after three years of implementation to see whether it is appropriate to submit a legislative proposal. the amendments are intended to oblige the commission to draw up a new proposal for a regulation on fishing techniques in the baltic sea, which will make it possible to increase the social and environmental sustainability of the activity. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. there are numerous controversies surrounding the implementation of this regulation, such as the issue of discards of undersized fish or the specifications of fishing gear. however, the rapporteur takes the view that going beyond the ordinary procedure of adapting the regulation to the changes pushed through by the lisbon treaty (new comitology) would be unwise at this stage, in view of the ongoing negotiations between the commission, parliament and the council on the future shape of the common fisheries policy. the adoption of the new regulation of the parliament and of the council on the common fisheries policy (a so-called basic regulation) will have a direct impact on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound, and it will make significant changes to the regulation under discussion here necessary. proposing such modifications at the current stage carries the risk that these modifications will not be in compliance with the provisions of the basic regulation.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i consider it to be a complete waste of time for european citizens and a new impetus for business by the big companies in the sector. it expresses the need for the construction of new infrastructures to enable the interconnection of the different european markets in order to implement the common energy market. the report misses an opportunity to legislate self-generation of energy and to consider the problem of the energy poor, instead of mentioning it in a vacuum and without proposing any change to their situation. the report also adds references to indigenous energy sources, which may include shale gas and also the eu-us agreement to end the mortgaging of europe's future to the interests of the energy multinationals. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − against. despite some good points adopted, the fact that there is a clear call for a shale gas revolution, and that basically promotes the use and exploitation of that type of energy, meant that many of us voted against.
in writing. - although this is a controversial issue, i think the debate on this european tax is important because it is clearly linked to the work being done in the itre commission to establish or, where appropriate, strengthen energy networks, which in my view are one of the backbones of the eu.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although i share the importance of energy efficiency, i do not share the need to promote it through the financial instruments proposed in the report. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. however, the report suggests the creation of financial instruments to implement such investments in the coming period. these instruments also introduce the european investment bank, the european bank for reconstruction and development and other financial institutions to develop financial instruments which will undoubtedly boost the speculative business of financial capital. i have therefore not been able to vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour, as we kept many of the original text which was based on some of our amendments. some important aspects have to do with ‘fuel poverty due to poor insulation’, ‘savings passed on to consumers’, ‘social housing and ee’.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although i share the general approach it seeks to give to the fisheries strategy in these seas, it introduces the need for new financial instruments for this policy. this is a new impetus to the activity of the financial sector through the organisation of public goods such as fisheries policy. it is another example of how to develop new frontiers to create financial products through the commodification of policy and the introduction of private interests in the implementation of this type of policies of the european union. this approach to financing fisheries policies has prevented me from voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − abstention. despite the fact that the text ‘calls on the commission to submit, at the earliest opportunity, a proposal for a regulation laying down common technical measures for fishing in the adriatic-ionian sea basin and specifying the admissible fishing effort, fishing periods and fishing gears and other relevant management measures’, which we find really unnecessary, we did not see many aspects to vote against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a valid criticism of the court of auditors, which has failed to fulfil its mandate to monitor the funds allocated to interpretation in the european institutions. i share the concern expressed by the house in this report about the lack of control in this area by the court of justice. the report places particular emphasis on the large size of the items for last-minute cancellations, which represent a large percentage of the overall interpretation budget. the report calls on the secretary-general to prepare a report by the end of the year explaining the origin of these high figures due to last-minute cancellations. this means improved budgetary control and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − we have voted in favour of the alternative resolution proposed by the socialists. this differs on three small points from the original, adopted in committee: (a) an extra paragraph on the fact that the general public can follow the public meetings in their own language; (b) that instead of penalties to be introduced for late cancellation of meetings, measures should be taken to avoid late cancellations, and (c) that strict rules should apply to the number of interpreters for delegations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it has been thoroughly amended, completely changing the view of the original report. the original report treated online gambling as a perfectly normal activity, but thanks to the amendments tabled, many of them by our own parliamentary group, this normalisation has been prevented. the amendments which have been adopted regulate the sector by requiring adequate financial obligations on member states for carrying out such activity, requiring adequate methods of identification to prevent fraud, guaranteeing state monopolies on such activities and specifying the prohibitions and illegal activities related to online gambling. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − against. this report follows the schaldemose report (integrity of online gambling, 2008/2155 (ini)) and the creutzmann report (online gambling in the internal market 2011/2084(ini)) a7-342/2011)). this report follows the commission communication com(2012)0345 ‘towards a comprehensive european framework for online gambling’ and is the imco committee’s third report in six years on this issue. although provision of gambling opportunities is considered a service, several ecj judgements have underlined that gambling cannot be considered to be a ‘regular’ service like any other, due to its social effects, organised crime/fraud potential and addictive nature. as such, it is excluded from the scope of much internal market legislation, inter alia the services directive 2006/123/ec and the consumer rights directive 2011/83/ec. this means that member states are free to decide their own approach to gambling services on their territory in order to ensure public order and consumer protection. however, if they do decide to open up their gambling markets, restrictions should be consistent, proportionate and non-discriminatory.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting this budget to the council and parliament, and that the council has also taken the initiative of presenting it to the council and parliament. this amending budget was part of an agreement at the highest level between the three institutions in the last budgetary negotiations and surely no one was surprised that the council, once again, did not keep its word. i say this for two reasons: firstly, because, despite all the facts, they have denied reality and have cut the commission's original proposal by eur 4 billion; and secondly, because they have delayed it as much as possible, so that today, in september, we are still talking about this amending budget, and because of that delay the commission has not had money to pay the bills for these first six months. fortunately, they still have the opportunity and the obligation to improve somewhat the situation of default we have at the moment, because they can approve that second part of the amending budget of 3.9 billion as soon as possible. this will not solve the serious budgetary problem we have, but it will at least give the commission a breathing space for a few months. i think we are in a sorry situation and i am very much afraid that the council is not in a position to change its attitude. if we look at the figures for the financial framework and the payment proposal for 2014, we are certainly not solving the problem, but it is going to get bigger and bigger, and if the council does not get down to business and in that meeting we have talked about with the commission, the council and parliament to solve the problem of payments we do not find a solution, the budgetary crisis is going to be imminent.
mr president, commissioner and other members of the narrow budgetary family, i believe that the three institutions are exercising their responsibility. let me explain: the european commission has fulfilled its obligation to guarantee by presenting real figures on the actual situation of payments in the financial year 2013. the request for an additional eur 11.2 billion to end the year, in the midst of the storm over the new financial perspective, and the announcement that, if not granted by the budgetary authorities, important and very sensitive programmes in community life would be interrupted, shows a leadership and initiative of the european commission and commissioner lewandowski which at the moment seems particularly welcome. the european parliament, at the same time, has sacrificed much of its expectations; let us not forget that we are political representatives elected on the basis of an electoral programme which we need to see fulfilled in order to ask our electorate to vote again next year. we therefore accept the council's reasons for restricting payments to minimum levels. we don't share them, but we have to accept them. however, we warn the council: there is a limit to the acceptance of this minimum level of payments. the ceiling for 2013 is the release of the eur 11.2 billion in two tranches. this system works on the basis of mutual interinstitutional trust and respect for the figures given by commissioner lewandowski. we therefore expect the remaining eur 3.9 billion to be accepted quickly so as not to jeopardise the 2013 budget, the 2014 proposal and the adoption of the new multiannual financial framework. as you can see, after all these years, there is still confidence in the institutions, in the budgetary procedure.
mr president, the council's position on next year's budget and this year's second amending budget have much in common, as has already been pointed out by several colleagues here: at the very least, an obstructionist and contradictory attitude on the part of the council. i will give a small but practical and symbolic example: the amount intended to cover the expenditure of the european schools. as the permanent rapporteur on this subject in the committee on budgets, i cannot accept the unjustified cut by the council of eur 3 million, which is already based on a previous cut of almost 5,6% compared to 2013. this, from my point of view, is inexplicable because it is not an operational expenditure, it is an administrative expenditure which, for the most part, is going to be used for teachers' salaries.
madam president, this is a timely debate because the training of young europeans must always be a priority if we are to consolidate the community of law that the european union represents. in this connection, i would like to propose that a public opinion poll be launched to select 50 names of european artistic creation of all times. the aim was for each citizen to name five great creators mozart, rubens, cervantes, molière who were not of his own nationality and with them to form a table of honour, summarise their lives and their contributions, transfer them to a booklet and disseminate them via the internet. this material would be compulsory learning in educational institutions. the aim would be to make visible what unites us europeans, which is and always will be a common culture represented by indisputable names. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, commissioner, it is obvious that the serious problem of youth unemployment is fortunately already on the european agenda, but we now have a long way to go and that is to define the practical solutions to this problem. you said that we have a strategy, and it is very important to have a strategy to win the war, but it is also very important, along with the strategy, to have the stewardship, to have the means, to have the capacity so that everything is not just words or papers but that these objectives become real deeds. and so this is the perspective that the socialist group will be applying to the report by mrs joanna from the committee on employment and social affairs. i would like to refer to three points which are already incorporated in that report but which we should stress in order to avoid future mistakes: firstly, we need young people to have jobs, but not just any kind of jobs; we want the jobs they are offered to be decent jobs, jobs with rights and jobs that are not precarious, and this also applies, commissioner, to periods of training and traineeships; otherwise we will be cheating in solitary confinement and deceiving ourselves. the commissioner, as regards the mobility that is so much talked about, that mobility must be wanted, it must not be forced. mobility is a right and young people must be recognised as such, but young people must also be recognised as having the right to remain in their countries, in their localities, to make their lives in their country too, and the peripheral states must also be recognised as having the right not to lose their brains for the benefit of the centre. and above all, commissioner, we must change economic policy, because the problem of youth unemployment is part of a much larger and more global problem.
madam president, the problem our group has with this resolution and with this debate is that we were aiming to go beyond what we had in 2009. we wanted to move forward, and not only did we not move forward, but we risked going backwards. the problem we have before our eyes is not one of training, it is not one of capacity, it is not one of effort. the problem of our young people and our young people is not that they are not prepared, it is that they have no jobs, it is that there are no jobs, it is that we are destroying jobs. and it's destroying work, basically, because of economic policies, which are generating dynamics that not only -- i insist -- don't create it, but destroy it. this is the underlying problem. this is the question we have to face. we cannot say to them, nor do they deserve it, nor do they expect it, nor do they want to hear it from us: be strong, work, strive! this is the last we can tell you. they're doing it without us telling them. the problem is that by doing this -- we've been telling them for years -- they can't find work because there isn't any. the creation of employment therefore requires: firstly, not destroying work, point 1; secondly, active policies for the creation of employment and, therefore, combating the austerity policies and cuts that are being applied in many countries, especially those in crisis; and, thirdly, and more important still, precisely understanding that work is not just a matter of going to work but of fundamental rights, the right to a dignified job, a job that guarantees not only a wage but also living conditions and opportunities, especially emancipatory ones, which they do not have at the moment.
madam president, for young people, a job is the first step towards their full emancipation. without a job, you cannot develop your skills, buy your own house or start a family, if that is what you want. the first challenge to be tackled in this area is to facilitate the transition between study and working life. we have to link the demand for education to the demand for labour. it is absolutely necessary to promote and give prestige to vocational training, to prevent trades from being regarded as second-class activities, to introduce dual training systems combining studies with work experience in companies, to create more flexible curricula, to encourage youth mobility and language learning and also, of course, to help them to set up their own businesses. this requires greater involvement by the member states and appropriate labour legislation. the european union must also devote more resources to the training of young people and, above all, to developing the various areas of the erasmus+ programme. i believe that there is no greater challenge in europe than youth unemployment and if we fail to give our young people a better life, we have failed as politicians and as people.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the european cybersecurity strategy is central to the security and defence policies of the european union and its member states. it should provide a secure and reliable digital environment, guaranteeing fundamental rights and values of the union, including the right to privacy and data protection, the universal right to telecommunications and all its services and net neutrality. this strategy will include the development of the internal market for cybersecurity products and services and investment in r&d&i and consumer education. we welcome the initiative of our parliament to investigate the mass spying by the united states of america on european citizens, governments and institutions. the negotiation of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership must safeguard the rights of citizens, the independence of the union's institutions and its sovereignty.
mr president, vice-president of the commission, council, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for this motion for a resolution, mr rohde, for the work he has done. i have been rapporteur for my group in this parliament, and i can therefore vouch for mr rohde's ability to promote this agreement which was adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy and which will be voted on tomorrow in the house. this resolution has a title which has not been read in its entirety. first it says: 'digital agenda for growth, mobility and jobs'. but it doesn't stop there, after two dots it adds: "it's time to step on the gas". and "it's time to step on the gas" means several things. 'the time has come to step on the accelerator' means that we must put into practice, implement where it has not been done, what the digital agenda said, what the digital agenda says; 'the time has come to step on the accelerator' means what the commission is going to propose tomorrow with new measures to boost the development of the single market for electronic communications. and it is time to step on the accelerator, and i am referring to the council - i am very interested in its attendance because i believe it is also fundamental for the october summit - it means that the public sector, that public administration, develops the leadership role that it is not yet developing. the full digitalisation of the public sector - given its extraordinary weight in all european countries - is essential. it will be a digital lever which will enable, like few other instruments, the real development of a digital single market, a single market for electronic communications. it is time to step on the accelerator for the public sector too.
mr president, we are obviously mixing things up in this debate. in theory, we are faced with a proposal to amend the regulation to bring its provisions into line with the new rules of the lisbon treaty, in particular with regard to the conferral of powers currently conferred on the commission, which must now be reclassified as delegated or implementing powers. it would therefore be appropriate to amend the elements of the eel regulation in the context of its alignment with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty. it is true that we cannot and must not refuse to use a report to do something other than what it should actually do and to raise substantive questions about a matter when such analysis is not the proper exercise for which we have been called at this moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you of this, ladies and gentlemen, because we are all making a great effort to bring our legislation into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, and this effort should not be clouded by any other action. but if we leave the alignment and talk about the eel, of course we have to say that it is true that the eel population has decreased by 95% or 99% if we compare the current levels with those of the 1960s and 1980s. and so is the fact that the international union for conservation of nature has classified the eel as a critically endangered species. we will also say that council regulation (ec) no 1100/2007 provides for measures for the recovery of eel and is mainly focused on asking member states to develop management plans with the aim of releasing at least 40% of the larval biomass for the repopulation of this species. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is able to compete with the other fleets in the world, and we have also taken steps to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is able to compete with the other fleets in the world.
member of the commission. − madam president, the high level of interest shown by this assembly in the union customs code demonstrates what an important issue customs is for the union and its businesses and, more generally, for society. adopting a basic act is always an important step in any policy area. the commission communication on the state of the customs union highlighted the completion of the modernisation of customs legislation as a first major step towards reaching the target objective of providing, by 2020, a better performing, robust and unified customs union providing the same high quality of services across the eu. i believe that this new union customs code will indeed allow customs to improve the services it provides to reliable traders and its protection of our citizens against all kinds of dangers and threats. we will be able to rely on customs to continue its discreet yet vital work, but in an even more efficient and effective way. once again i would like to thank mr harbour, ms le grip and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work. this was an extremely large and very technical file and i greatly appreciate the fact that we were able to find compromises on such an important issue as the customs union.
president of the commission. − mr president, in eight months’ time, voters across europe will judge what we have achieved together in the last five years. in these five years, europe has been more present in the lives of citizens than ever before. europe has been discussed in the coffee houses and popular talk shows all over our continent. today, i want to look at what we have done together, at what we have yet to do. i want to present what i believe are the main ideas for a truly european political debate ahead of next year’s elections. as we speak, exactly five years ago the united states government took over fannie mae and freddie mac, bailed out aig, and lehman brothers filed for bankruptcy protection. these events triggered the global financial crisis. it evolved into an unprecedented economic crisis. and it became a social crisis with dramatic consequences for many of our citizens. these events have aggravated the debt problem that still distresses our governments. they have led to an alarming increase in unemployment, especially amongst young people. and they are still holding back our households and our companies. but europe has fought back. in those five years, we have given a determined response. we suffered the crisis together. we realised we had to fight it together. and we did. and we are doing it. if we look back and think about what we have done together throughout the crisis, i think it is fair to say that we would never have thought all of this possible five years ago. we are fundamentally reforming the financial sector so that people’s savings are safe. we have improved the way governments work together, how they return to sound public finances and modernise their economies. we have mobilised over eur 700 billion to pull crisis-struck countries back from the brink, the biggest effort ever in stabilisation between countries. i still vividly remember my meeting last year with chief economists of many of our leading banks. most of them were expecting greece to leave the euro. all of them feared the disintegration of the euro area. now, we can give a clear reply to those fears: no one has left or has been forced to leave the euro. this year, the european union enlarged from 27 to 28 member states and next year the euro area will grow from 17 to 18 member states. what matters now is what we make of this progress. do we talk it up, or talk it down? do we draw confidence from it to pursue what we have started, or do we belittle the results of our efforts? i just came back from the g20 meeting in st petersburg. i can tell you: this year, contrary to recent years, we europeans did not receive any lessons from other parts of the world on how to address the crisis. we received appreciation and encouragement. not because the crisis is over (because it is not over), but the resilience of our union has been tested and will continue to be tested. but what we are doing creates the confidence that we are overcoming the crisis – provided we are not complacent. we are tackling our challenges together and we have to tackle them together, because in our world of geo-economic and geopolitical tectonic changes, i believe that only together, as the european union, can we give our citizens what they aspire to: that our values, our interests, our prosperity are protected and promoted in the age of globalisation. so now is the time to rise above purely national issues and parochial interests and to have real progress for europe. to bring a truly european perspective to the debate with national constituencies. now is the time for all those who care about europe, whatever their political or ideological position, wherever they come from, to speak up for europe. if we ourselves do not do it, we cannot expect others to do it either. we have come a long way since the start of the crisis. in last year’s state of the union speech, i stated that ‘despite all our efforts, our responses have not yet convinced citizens, markets or our international partners’. one year on, the facts tell us that our efforts have started to convince. overall spreads are coming down. the most vulnerable countries are paying less to borrow. industrial output is increasing. market trust is returning. stock markets are performing well. the business outlook is steadily improving. consumer confidence is rising sharply. we see that the countries which are most vulnerable to the crisis and are now doing most to reform their economies are starting to note positive results. in spain, as a signal of the very important reforms and increased competitiveness, exports of goods and services now make up 33% of gdp, more than ever since the introduction of the euro. ireland has been able to draw money from capital markets since the summer of 2012, the economy is expected to grow for a third consecutive year in 2013 and irish manufacturing companies are rehiring staff. in portugal, the external current account, which was structurally negative, is now expected to be broadly balanced, and growth is picking up after many quarters in the red. greece has completed, in just three years, a truly remarkable fiscal adjustment, is regaining competitiveness and is nearing for the first time in decades a primary surplus. and cyprus, which started the programme later, is also implementing that programme as scheduled, which is a precondition for a return to growth. my point is this: for europe, recovery is within sight. let us be realistic in analysis, let us not overestimate the positive results but let us not also underestimate what has been done. of course, we need to be vigilant. ‘one swallow does not make a summer, nor one fine day’. even one fine quarter does not mean we are out of the economic heavy weather. but it does prove we are on the right track. on the basis of the figures and evolutions as we now see them, we have good reason to be confident. this should push us to keep up our efforts. we owe it to those for whom the recovery is not yet within reach, to those who do not yet profit from positive developments. we owe it to our 26 million unemployed, especially to the young people who are unemployed and who are looking to us. they want to have reasons to feel hope about europe and about their own countries. so hope and confidence are also part of the economic equation. if we are where we are today, it is because we have shown the resolve to adapt both our politics and our policies to the lessons drawn from the crisis. and when i say ‘we’, i really mean ‘we’: it has really been a joint effort. at each and every step, you, the european parliament, have played a decisive role through one of the most impressive records of legislative work ever. i personally believe this is not sufficiently known by the citizens of europe and you deserve more credit and recognition for this. so let us continue to work together to reform our economies, for growth and jobs, and to adapt our institutional architecture. only if we do so, will we leave this phase of the crisis behind us as well. there is a lot we can still deliver together, in this parliament’s and this commission’s mandate. what we can and must do, first and foremost – let us be concrete – is to deliver the banking union. it is the first and most urgent phase on the way to deepening our economic and monetary union, as mapped out in the commission’s blueprint presented last autumn. the legislative process on the single supervisory mechanism is almost completed. the next step is the ecb’s independent valuation of banks’ assets, before it takes up its supervisory role. our attention now must urgently turn to the single resolution mechanism. the commission’s proposal has been on the table since july and, together, we must do what is necessary to have it adopted during this term. it is the way to ensure that taxpayers are no longer the ones in the front line for paying the price of bank failure. it is the way to make progress in decoupling banks from sovereign risk. it is the way to remedy one of the most alarming and unacceptable results of the crisis: increased fragmentation of europe’s financial sector and credit markets – even an implicit renationalisation. and it is also the way to help restore normal lending to the economy, notably to smes. because in spite of the accommodating monetary policy, credit is not yet sufficiently flowing to the economy across the euro area. this needs to be addressed resolutely. ultimately, this is about one thing – growth – which is necessary to remedy today’s most pressing problem – unemployment. the current level of unemployment is economically unsustainable, politically untenable and socially unacceptable. so all of us here in the commission – and i am happy to have all my colleagues in the commission here with me today – all of us, not just one or two commissioners, this is a collective effort – all of us want to work with you, intensively, to deliver as much of our growth agenda, our sustainable growth agenda, as we possibly can. we are mobilising all the instruments we have at european level but of course we have to be honest, not all instruments are at european level: some of them are at national level. and i want to focus on the implementation of the decisions that are most crucial now: youth employment and financing the real economy for smes. we need to avoid a jobless recovery too. europe must, therefore, speed up the pace of structural reforms. our country specific recommendations set out what the member states must do in this respect. and at european level – because there is what can be done at national level and what can be done at european level – the focus should also be on what matters most for the real economy: exploiting the full potential of the single market comes first. we have a well-functioning single market for goods, and we see the economic benefits of that. we need to extend the same formula to other areas: mobility, communications, energy, finance and e-commerce, to name but a few. we have to remove the obstacles that hold back dynamic companies and people. we have to finish connecting europe. i would like to announce that, today, we will formally adopt a proposal that gives a push towards a single market for telecoms. citizens know that europe has dramatically brought down their costs for roaming. our proposal will strengthen guarantees and lower prices for consumers, and present new opportunities for companies. we know that in the future trade will be more and more digital. is it not a paradox that we have an internal market for goods but when it comes to the digital market, we have 28 national markets. how can we grab all the opportunities of the future that are opened up by the digital economy if we do not conclude this internal market? (applause) the same logic applies to the broader digital agenda: it solves real problems and improves daily life for citizens. the strength of europe’s future industrial base depends on how well people and businesses are interconnected. and by properly combining the digital agenda with data protection and the defence of privacy, our european model strengthens the trust of citizens. both with respect to internal and external developments, adopting the proposed legislation on data protection is of utmost importance to the commission. the single market is a key lever for competitiveness and employment. adopting all remaining proposals under the single market act i and ii, and implementing the connecting europe facility in the next few months, we will lay the foundations for prosperity in the years to come. we are also adapting to a dynamic transformation on a global scale, so we must encourage this innovative dynamism on a european scale. that is why we must also invest more in innovation, in technology and in the role of science. i have great faith in science, in the capacity of the human mind and the capacity of a creative society to solve its problems. the world is changing dramatically and i believe many of the solutions are going to come, in europe and outside europe, from new science discoveries, from new technologies, and i would like europe to be leading that effort globally. this is why we – parliament and the commission – have made horizon 2020 such a priority in the discussions on the european union budget. that is why we use the european union budget to invest in skills, education and vocational training, dynamising and supporting talent. that is why we have pushed for erasmus plus. and that is why, later this autumn, we will make further proposals for an industrial policy fit for the 21st century. why we mobilise support for smes. because we believe a strong dynamic industrial base is indispensable for a strong european economy. (applause) and whilst fighting climate change, our 20-20-20 goals have set our economy on the path to green growth and resource efficiency, reducing costs and creating jobs. by the end of this year, we will come out with concrete proposals for our energy and climate framework up to 2030. and we will continue to shape the international agenda by fleshing out a comprehensive, legally binding global climate agreement by 2015, with our partners. frankly, we need the others on board too. europe cannot fight climate change alone. we need a level playing field globally and we should lead that effort. at the same time, we will pursue our work on the impact of energy prices on competitiveness and also on social cohesion. all these drivers for growth are part of our ‘europe 2020’ agenda, and fully and swiftly implementing it is more urgent than ever. in some cases we even have to go beyond the europe 2020 agenda. this means we must also pursue our active and assertive trade agenda. this is about linking us closer to growing third markets and guaranteeing our place in the global supply chain. contrary to perception, while most of our citizens think that we have been losing in global trade, we have in fact been increasing our surplus with the rest of the world. we have a significant and increased trade surplus of more than eur 300 billion a year in goods, services and agriculture. we need to build on that. this too will demand our full attention in the months to come, notably with the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the us and the negotiations with canada and japan. last but not least, we need to step up our game in implementing the multiannual financial framework, the european budget. the eu budget is the most concrete lever we have at hand to boost investments. in some of our regions, european investment is the only means they have to get some public investment because they cannot now have resources at national level. both parliament and the commission wanted more resources – we have been in that fight together – but even so, let us be honest, one single year’s eu budget represents more money – at today’s prices – than the whole marshall plan did in its time! let us now make sure that the programmes can start on 1 january 2014; that the results are felt on the ground, in our regions or across europe, and that we use the possibilities of innovative financing: from instruments that have already started, to european investment bank money and to project bonds. we have to make good on the commitment we made in july. from the commission’s side, we will deliver. we will, for example, present the second amending budget for 2014 this month. there is no time to waste, so i warn against holding it up. in particular, i urge member states not to delay. i cannot emphasise this enough: citizens will not be convinced by rhetoric and promises only, but by a concrete set of common achievements. we have to show the many areas where europe has solved problems for citizens. europe does not cause problems: europe is part of the solution. i address what we have to do still more extensively in today’s letter to the president of the european parliament, which you will also have received, so i will not go into detail now regarding our programme for next year. but my point today is clear: together, there is a lot still to achieve before the elections. it is not time to throw in the towel, it is time to roll up our sleeves and work hard. of course none of this is easy. i think that everybody recognises that we have been living in extremely challenging times, a real stress test for the european union. we know too that the path of permanent and profound reform is as demanding as it is unavoidable. let us make no mistake: there is no way back to business as usual. some people believe that after this everything will go back to the way it was before. they are wrong. this crisis is different. this is not a cyclical crisis, but a structural crisis. we will not go back to the old ‘normal’. we have to shape a new ‘normal’. we are in a transforming period of history and we have to understand that, and not just say it but draw all the due conclusions, including in our state of mind and how we react to the problems. we can see from the first results that it is possible to win that battle, and we all know that it is not only possible but it is necessary. at this point in time, with a fragile recovery, the biggest downside risk i see is – you know what – political. this is the biggest downside risk we have: lack of stability or lack of determination and perseverance. over the last years we have seen that anything that casts doubt on governments’ commitment to reform is instantly punished. on the positive side, strong and convincing decisions have an important and immediate impact. in this phase of the crisis, governments’ job is to provide the certainty and predictability that markets still lack. i am sure you all know justus lipsius. justus lipsius is the name of the council building in brussels. justus lipsius was the very influential 16th century humanist scholar who wrote a very important book called de constantia. he wrote: ‘constancy is a right and immovable strength of the mind, neither lifted up nor pressed down with external or casual accidents.’. only a ‘strength of the mind’, he argued, based on ‘judgment and sound reason’, can help you through confusing and alarming times. i hope that in these difficult times, all of us, including the government representatives that meet at the justus lipsius building, show that determination and that perseverance when it comes to the implementation of decisions taken, because one of the issues we have is to be coherent and not just take decisions but afterwards be able to implement them on the ground. it is only natural that, over the last few years, our efforts to overcome the economic crisis have overshadowed everything else. but our idea of europe needs to go far beyond economics. we are much more than a market. the european ideal touches the very foundations of european society. it is about values – and i underline the word ‘values’. it is based on a firm belief in political, social and economic standards, grounded in our social market economy. in today’s world, the european union level is indispensable to protecting these values and standards and promoting citizens’ rights: from consumer protection to labour rights, from women’s rights to respect for minorities, from environmental standards to data protection and privacy. whether defending our interests in international trade, securing our energy provision, or restoring people’s sense of fairness by fighting tax fraud and tax evasion, it is only by acting as a union that we pull our weight on the world stage. whether seeking impact for the development and humanitarian aid we give to developing countries, managing our common external borders or promoting europe as a strong security and defence policy, it is only by integrating more that we can really reach our objectives. there is no doubt about it. our internal coherence and international relevance are inextricably linked. our economic attraction and political traction are fundamentally entwined. does anyone seriously believe that, if the euro had collapsed, we or our member states would still have any credibility left internationally? does everyone still realise how enlargement has been a success in terms of healing history’s deep scars, in establishing democracies where some years ago no one had thought it possible? how neighbourhood policy was and still is the best way to provide security and prosperity in regions of vital importance for europe? where would we be without all of this? today, countries like ukraine are more than ever seeking closer ties with the european union, attracted by our economic and social model. we cannot turn our back on them. we cannot accept any attempts to limit these countries’ own sovereign choices. free will and free consent need to be respected. these are also the principles that lie at the basis of our eastern partnership, which we want to take forward at our summit in vilnius. and does everyone still remember just how much europe has suffered from its wars during the last century, and how european integration was the valid answer? next year, it will be one century since the start of the first world war. a war that tore europe apart, from sarajevo to the somme. we must never take peace for granted. we need to recall that it is because of europe that former enemies now sit around the same table and work together. it is only because they were offered a european perspective that even serbia and kosovo have now come to an agreement, under the mediation of the eu. last year’s nobel peace prize reminded us of that historic achievement: that europe is a project of peace. we should be more aware of it ourselves. sometimes i think we should not be ashamed to be proud. arrogance is one thing: we do not want to be arrogant. but we should be proud of europe and of what we have achieved. we should look towards the future, but with a wisdom we gained from the past. (applause) let me say this to all those who rejoice in europe’s difficulties and who want to roll back our integration and go back to isolation: the pre-integrated europe of the divisions, the war, the trenches, is not what people desire and deserve. the european continent has never in its history known such a long period of peace as it has had since the creation of the european communities. it is our duty to preserve it and to deepen it. it is precisely with these values that we address the unbearable situation in syria, which has tested, over the last months, the world’s conscience so severely. the european union has led the international aid response by mobilising close to eur 1.5 billion, of which eur 850 million comes directly from the european union budget. the commission will do its utmost to help the syrian people and refugees in neighbouring countries. we have recently witnessed events we thought had long been eradicated. the use of chemical weapons is a horrendous act that deserves a clear condemnation and a strong answer. the international community, with the united nations at its centre, carries a collective responsibility to sanction these acts and to put an end to this conflict. the proposal to put syria’s chemical weapons beyond use is potentially a positive development. the syrian regime must now demonstrate that it will implement this without any delay. in europe, we believe that, ultimately, only a political solution stands a chance of delivering the lasting peace that the syrian people deserve. there are those who claim that a weaker europe would make their country stronger, that europe is a burden and they would be better off without it. my reply is clear: we all need a europe that is united, strong and open. in the debate that is ongoing all across europe, the bottom-line question is: do we want to improve europe, or give it up? my answer is clear: let us engage! if you do not like europe as it is: improve it! find ways to make it stronger, internally and internationally, and you will have in me the firmest of supporters. find ways that allow for diversity without creating discrimination, and i will be with you all the way. but do not turn away from it. i recognise that, as in any human endeavour, the european union is not perfect. for example, controversies about the division of labour between the national and european levels will never be conclusively ended. i value subsidiarity highly. for me subsidiarity is not a technical concept, it is a fundamental democratic principle. an ever closer union among the citizens of europe demands that decisions are taken as openly and as transparently as possible and as close to the people as possible. not everything needs a solution at european level. europe must focus on where it can add most value. where this is not the case, it should not meddle. the european union needs to be big on big things and smaller on smaller things – something we may occasionally have neglected in the past. the european union needs to show it has the capacity to set both positive and negative priorities. as all governments, we need to take extra care of the quality and quantity of our regulation knowing that, as montesquieu said, ‘les lois inutiles affaiblissent les lois nécessaires’ – useless laws weaken the necessary ones. but there are areas of major importance where europe must have more integration, more unity, where only a strong europe can deliver results. i believe a political union needs to be our political horizon, as i stressed in last year’s state of the union speech. this is not just the demand of a passionate european. this is the indispensable way forward to consolidate our progress and ensure the future. ultimately, the solidity of our policies, namely of the economic and monetary union, depends on the credibility of the political and institutional construct that supports it. so we have mapped out, in the commission blueprint for a deep and genuine economic and monetary union, not only the economic and monetary features, but also the necessities, possibilities and limits in deepening our institutional set-up in the medium and long term. the commission will continue to work for the implementation of its blueprint, step by step, one phase after the other. and i confirm, as announced last year, the intention to present, before the european elections, further ideas on the future of our union and how best to consolidate and deepen the community method and the community approach in the longer term. that way, these ideas can be subject to a real european debate. they will set out the principles and orientations that are necessary for a true, political union. we can only meet the challenges of our time if we strengthen the consensus on our fundamental objectives. politically, we must not be divided by differences between the euro area and those outside it, between the centre and the periphery, between north and south, between east and west. the european union must remain a project for all members, a community of equals. economically, europe has always been a way to close gaps between countries, regions and people. and that must remain so. we cannot do member states’ work for them, the responsibility remains theirs, but we can and must complement it with european responsibility and european solidarity. for that reason, strengthening the social dimension is a priority for the months to come, together with our social partners. the commission will come with its communication on the social dimension of the economic and monetary union on 2 october. solidarity is a key element of what being part of europe is all about, and something to take pride in. safeguarding its values, such as the rule of law, is what the european union was made to do, from its inception to the latest chapters in enlargement. in last year’s state of the union speech, at a moment of challenges to the rule of law in our own member states, i addressed the need to make a bridge between political persuasion and targeted infringement procedures, on the one hand, and what i call the nuclear option of article 7 of the treaty, namely suspension of a member state’s rights. experience has confirmed the usefulness of the commission role as an independent and objective referee. we should consolidate this experience through a more general framework. it should be based on the principle of equality between member states, activated only in situations where there is a serious, systemic risk to the rule of law, and triggered by predefined benchmarks. the commission will come forward with a communication on this. i believe it is a debate key to our idea of europe. this does not mean that national sovereignty or democracy are constrained, but we do need a robust european mechanism to influence the equation when basic common principles are at stake. there are certain non-negotiable values that the eu and its member states must and shall always defend. the polarisation that resulted from the crisis poses a risk to us all, to the european project. we, the legitimate representatives of the european union, can turn the tide. you, the direct democratic representatives of europe, directly elected, will be at the forefront of the political debate. the question i want to put to you is the following: which picture of europe will voters be presented with? the candid version, or the cartoon version? the myths or the facts? the honest reasonable version or the extremist populist version? it is an important choice to make. i know some people out there will say europe is to blame for the crisis and the hardship. but we can remind people that the european union was not at the origin of this crisis. it resulted from mismanagement of public finances from the national governments and the irresponsible behaviour in the financial markets. we can explain how europe has worked to fix the crisis, what we would have lost if we had not succeeded in upholding the single market. because the single market was under threat and upholding the common currency, because some time ago some people were predicting the end of the common currency. if we had not coordinated recovery efforts and employment initiatives, how would we be now? some people will say that it is europe that is forcing governments to cut spending, but we can remind voters that government debt got way out of hand even before the crisis. not because of, but despite, europe. we can add that the most vulnerable in our societies, and our children, will end up paying the price if we do not persevere now and the truth is that countries, inside the euro or outside the euro, in europe or outside europe, are making efforts to curb their very burdened public finances. some will campaign saying that we have given too much money to vulnerable countries. others will say we have given too little money to the most vulnerable countries, but every one of us can explain what we did and why: there is a direct link between one country’s loans and another country’s banks, between one country’s investments and another country’s businesses, between one country’s workers and another country’s companies. this kind of interdependence means only european solutions can work. what i tell people is: when you are in the same boat, one cannot say: ‘your end of the boat is sinking’. we were in the same boat when things went well, and we are in it together when things are difficult. some people might campaign saying: europe has grabbed too much power. others will claim europe always does too little, too late. the interesting thing is that sometimes we have the same: saying europe is not doing enough and at the same time not giving more instruments for europe to do what europe has to do. but we can explain that member states have entrusted europe with tasks and competences. the european union is not a foreign power. the european union is a result of democratic decisions by the institutions and the member states. at the same time, we must acknowledge that, in some areas, europe still lacks the power to do what is asked of it, a fact that is all too easily forgotten by those – and we know there are many out there – that are always ready to nationalise success and to europeanise failure. ultimately, what we have, and what we do not have, is the result of democratic decision-making and i think we should remind people of that. i hope parliament will take up this challenge with all the idealism it holds, with as much realism and determination as the times demand of us. the arguments are there. the facts are there. the agenda has been set out. in eight months’ time, voters will decide. now, it is up to us to make the case for europe. we can do so by using the next eight months to conclude as much as we can. we have a lot to do still: namely, adopting and implementing the european budget, the mff. this is critical for investment in our regions all over europe. this is indispensable for the first priority we have: the fight against unemployment, notably youth unemployment. another priority is to advance and implement the banking union. this is critical in order to address the problem of financing for businesses and smes. these are our clear priorities: employment and growth. our job is not finished. it is in its decisive phase. because the elections will not only be about the european parliament, nor will they be about the european commission or about the council, about this or that personality. the elections will be about europe. we will be judged together. so let us work together – for europe. with passion and with determination. let us not forget that 100 years ago europe was sleepwalking into the catastrophe of the war of 1914. next year, in 2014, i hope europe will be walking out of a crisis, more united, stronger and open. (applause)
the question of the 'blue card'. mr president, yes, mr swoboda, you, in referring to spain - i do not know if it was a simultaneous interpretation problem - have spoken of a scandal, when in the last month there are 31 new jobs, which add to other new jobs. the question is: what is your concept of scandal? when are jobs created, or when during the period of socialist governments millions of jobs were destroyed in spain? what is your concept of scandal in that sense, mr swoboda?
mr president, mr president of the commission, i agree that today's debate cannot be limited to the last few months or to facts and figures that might give a distorted picture of the state of the union. we are at the end of the legislative term, with european elections due in may 2014; the future of the union is at stake and it is time to take stock and to be held accountable. and the union is still suffering the effects of the great recession, which has been the worst time in its history, and it is not acceptable to try to sugarcoat a narrative that pretends to pass off as recovery or light at the end of the tunnel what is nothing but a turning point in a negative cycle that has lasted too long, in which the management of the crisis has been terrible, with errors of diagnosis, strategy and political direction. even if the recession is behind us, the crisis is not over. the political project based on mutual trust is badly damaged, and euroscepticism, populism and extremism are its consequences. so leaving recession behind can be a statistical effect: after a long downturn, a turning point upwards; but nothing announces any new era, nor does it legitimize the ruthlessly applied austerity strategy, nor the feeling of guilt and penance that has been imposed on the countries with the greatest difficulties, breaking the european spirit of solidarity. so economic triumphalism is unwarranted. but it is not innocent, it validates the policy applied: it does not change, it does not camouflage, it does not cover up the social damage, the growing inequality, the injustice brought about by the adjustments of the crisis, the broken hopes, the cut lives of many europeans, and not only among young people. but there are still 26 million unemployed, many without cover and without hope of finding a job again, as in spain, where the collapse of the labour force and the discouragement of those who no longer have incentives to register as unemployed does not equate to either employment growth or unemployment reduction. the public deficit is far above what was announced at the time as an impossible compliance ceiling, then revised in the service of the same failed strategy. and public debt is at unprecedented levels. the same people who have been used as a cover - they are said to be incompatible with growth - are, of course, the same people who are said to be incompatible with growth, but the fact is that we are facing stunted growth, with no jobs and no hope for young people, which is the negation of the european impulse and the european social model. so the state of the union is not good, it is not acceptable; we still need investment, growth, employment, financed with resources and a robust budget, and, in short, a europeanist response, which many have been missing for a few years now. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, extremism, of course, is a challenge. it is good to be reminded that next year will mark the centenary of the outbreak of the conflagration which was at one time the most devastating in european history, until 30 years later came the second world war, even worse, caused by an increase, by a redouble, of greater nationalism and greater extremism. that's not the right answer, no. i am a convinced europeanist, but i am also convinced that the course must be changed, that another european policy is needed, with other contents and a different direction, and that there is a european union which too many europeans have missed for too long. but he also mentioned the mass spying on europeans, and this is an occasion for the european union to show that it cares about the fundamental rights of its citizens and to make them come true. and this parliament is doing it. the committee i chair - the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs - is carrying out an inquiry which seeks to identify the consequences of these unacceptable practices, to bring them to the political level in the bilateral relationship with the united states, if necessary, but above all to strengthen the system for protecting the privacy of the fundamental rights of europeans by completing the work on the completion of the legislative procedure on data protection which is under way in the commission.
the commission. mr president, i would like to begin by replying directly to mr paulo rangel, to thank him for his words and to say that the countries which have been included in the programme have really made a remarkable effort, with immense sacrifices. that is why i have publicly acknowledged them here and why i also continue to call for greater solidarity throughout the european union. this value, solidarity, with the corresponding responsibility, is essential in a union truly worthy of the name. i would also like to answer several questions which have been put by other members. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, we are facing a great challenge. how can the necessary flexibility be ensured in a union of 28 member states - some of which are in the euro zone, some of which are not yet in it, and some of which do not want to be in it - without creating stratification and hierarchies? do we feel that we are part of the same union? the commission, guardian of the treaties, has an obligation to defend the unity of our project and will continue to do so. consequently, it is a great political undertaking which will require a great deal of intelligence, a great deal of wisdom, to ensure unity while allowing diversity. i agree with mr verhofstadt, even if sometimes i have the impression that, even when we agree, mr verhofstadt likes to say that he does not agree with me when he says that we must have greater integration in the euro zone. that is why we have put forward the project for a genuine economic and monetary union. finally, what you have proposed, monsieur verhofstadt, are the tracks that we have also proposed in this project of which i am particularly proud. the other day, one of europe's greatest philosophers, mr jürgen habermas, said that, up to now, the document the commission had presented was the most complete political project on the future of europe. we will continue to develop it progressively, in accordance with this vision which guides us. i was pleased to note that today almost all the groups, despite their differences, consider the proposals on the table concerning banking union, including the single resolution mechanism, as a legislative priority for european construction. but we must also plan beyond the banking union, the budgetary union, the management of the euro zone, or even the political union. and i think for me the most interesting point during this debate was this one. many of you focus on the problems. others focus on the solutions. i prefer to be on the side of the solutions. this is the question. i think my assessment was realistic. i have recognised that there are still difficulties. i have not said that we are out of the crisis. i have explicitly said that we are still in the crisis and that we should avoid any kind of complacency. but with regard to the situation, we have two possibilities: we have the possibility of insisting on the negative side, of continuing this self-deprecation and this euro-pessimism that is so destructive, that is sometimes intellectually glamorous but will not bring hope and confidence to our citizens, or, as european leaders - and you are a european leader, as i am - we can give people hope and we can say to them, look, there are indeed some signals - because there are some signals - that things are changing for the better. and this is the point. and this is the political question that i put to all of you at the beginning of my intervention today. then i want to speak more directly to the pro-european forces, some from the centre-left, some from the centre-right, some from the centre, but who basically share, as mr swoboda rightly said, the same values. what is going to be your story to the electors? are you going to say, like the populists or the extremists, that everything is wrong in europe? if you go that way you will only reinforce those who do not believe, as we do, in european values. mr callanan, you said, making a joke about possible competitors for the commission election, that you are not interested in that job, that you are very happy with yours. let me tell you very frankly that even if you were interested you could not have a chance to be elected president of the commission and do you know why? i am not saying that happily, because i think increasingly your party and your group is looking like ukip, a eurosceptic, anti-european group. and i am beginning to have some doubts that you are going to be elected yourself in britain, or if it is not ukip that is going to be the first force in the british elections. because when it comes to being against europe, the people, between the original and the copy, prefer the original. that is probably why they are going to vote more for mr farage than for mr callanan. and i do not say this with any satisfaction, because, even if we have some differences, we have worked in many areas very constructively with the conservatives, the british conservatives and the conservative group. we have worked together for the internal market, for reform, we have worked together against some kinds of regulation, we have worked together in many areas including free trade. but this is an important point, because if those forces that are pro-european, or even those that are not really pro-european but constructive, have the same discourse, the same political attitude as the anti-europeans, the eurosceptics, the populists, in that case the latter will win the next election. so my appeal to you is to make the case for europe, because you are part of europe. as i have said, much of the legislation that has been made would not have been possible without the very strong cooperation between the commission and the european parliament. take the mff. we were not happy with the result, but frankly, without the complicity between the commission and the european parliament the result would have been much worse. president schulz knows that well because we were together during those negotiations. and i could give you many more examples. ms harms, when you say that europe has done nothing or that on climate change there is zero change, come on! let us be real! europe is leading the world in terms of the objective for climate change. on low-co2 cars, the proposals were put forward by the commission. if you are not satisfied with the solution now, put the question to the member states, not to the commission. we are keeping a very strong commitment to climate change. mr farage shows that populists are sometimes obscurantists. ninety-nine percent of scientists, mr farage, believe that climate change exists as a result of human activity: 99% of scientists. of course there are always people who are paid to say the opposite. to pretend, as you do, against all well-established science, that the problem of climate change is just an invention of the greens or of the left, is complete nonsense. of course we have to find a way, of course we have to find a sensible way to fight climate change. and we have to look at the same time at competitiveness in europe. we have to make this part of our agenda for growth and i believe that the green economy brings many possibilities. it would be a mistake to base the case on climate change solely on environmental matters. they are of course decisive. it is an existential matter for our planet, the conservation of our planet. but we have to make the case also in terms of the economy, in terms of what it can bring in terms of our health, because in fact we have seen increasing numbers of natural disasters that most scientists attribute to climate change. so this is important, and i think it is almost incredible that the leader of one european parliament group says that something which has been clearly established by science is an invention of some political forces. as i have said before, i believe in science and i believe part of the solution for our problems is through more science, more innovation, more research, more technology and this is the way for europe to address these problems. regarding the social aspect, mr swoboda, you know very well that europe or at least european institutions have been fighting a lot for these matters. you know very well that the commission was pushing hard for a more generous social fund, for the globalisation adjustment fund, for the financial transaction tax that now some member states do not want to implement. you know very well, so let's not create artificial divisions here. now, what happens in fact is that we are aware of the difficulties in europe. you are right, you and some others, when you outline difficulties that many of our citizens, particularly unemployed people, are still experiencing. and to one of the distinguished members of parliament who told me that i have never seen that reality, that i have never seen people begging near the parliament, let me tell you, i have not only seen people near the parliament but, together with joseph daul, i went to a food bank in the region of strasbourg/bas-rhin, and i know well how many people are poor in europe and suffer. coming from my country, portugal, i know well the difficulties of poverty in many of our sectors. but not only do i know, i am fighting to solve that problem. it was the commission which upheld the aspiration for a fund for the most deprived people and had to fight hard against some capitals that were seeking to remove it from our priorities. so not only do we know the reality in europe, but we are trying to do our best with the instruments we have to remedy those situations. and this is the point i want to make as well, because, as some of you said, where are the instruments? many of these instruments and responsibilities are at national level. let us be honest: employment is mainly a national policy. we can influence, we can create some funds. we can create the youth employment initiative, we took the initiative of the youth guarantee. but in the end it depends on what member states do or do not do. this is the point. and that is why we have to be clear about this because if not - and you are going to see that during the elections - many of our citizens are going to put the blame on europe for what was in fact the action or inaction of some of our governments and member states. that is the tendency to europeanise failure and to nationalise success. and i believe that you, as members of parliament and we, as the european commission, have a duty to explain to our citizens what the national responsibility is, what the european responsibility is: of course making an honest and reasonable assessment; of course also recognising that not everything we have been doing is perfect; of course recognising that these slow decisions of the member states and the european union architecture are sometimes frustrating; but giving hope to our citizens. i think that, as political leaders, we have the duty of confidence, we have the duty to provide hope to our citizens. and that is my appeal to you, particularly to the pro-european forces who i believe, despite some ideological differences, share the same values. the same values that are in the treaty of lisbon, that have been there since the treaty of rome, the values of the dignity of human beings, of peace, of freedom and justice. and that is why i was also happy to receive the words of many of you congratulating the commission for what we are doing in terms of the rule of law. because if you want to talk about the rule of law internationally, we have to be sure that here in europe we also respect all those principles, because our conception of europe is not just about the economy or about the market, it is a conception based on values. and i believe that despite the natural differences, we basically share these values. and i have a great confidence in europe. i think it was mrs mcguinness who gave some figures about the extraordinary support that still exists in europe for the european ideal. do you not find it really extraordinary that despite all the difficulties that greek citizens have been experiencing, a huge majority of greek citizens support the euro? do you not find it extraordinary that in spain, even if there are five million non-spanish unemployed, there is not a xenophobic or anti-foreigner party? i believe that in europe we have a great resilience. i believe that this crisis has tested us and is testing us to the limit and i believe that in europe, if you keep the objectives, we will come out of this crisis stronger because our resilience was tested. it is a complete caricature to present european policy just as fiscal consolidation. at least since 2010 i have been saying that fiscal consolidation alone is not sufficient, that there are some limits to the policy of fiscal consolidation. our policy is a complex mix of fiscal consolidation, structural reform and investment targeted investment in the sectors of the future, to have a more innovative, a more modern europe. and even in fiscal consolidation, we have been adapting to the different difficult economic cycle. the commission has been putting much more emphasis on the structural deficit than on the nominal deficit, as you know, and it was our proposal in several cases to give the member states more time to adjust their deficits. so trying to find the right balance and the right calibration for a policy that of course in the medium term, in the short term, has naturally a recessionary effect. but to put the question once again: who is responsible for the difficulties in europe. was it policy or was it the mistakes made in the past? one of you said greece is the victim of the policies of europe. it's not true! completely greece is the victim of the irresponsible behaviour of the governments of greece. this is the reality, and it was because of this that the european union was asked to come and give support. without european union support, greece would now be completely insolvent. the situation would be much more difficult. so we have to have the courage to ask who created the problem. without the european union, the countries that are now in a difficult situation would be in a much worse situation. without europe they would be suffering much more. and so it is important to set the record straight, because if not, our electors, your electors, will think that europe is to blame when in fact, as i said, europe, even if it is not perfect, did not create the problem, europe is a victim of the problem and europe is certainly part of the solution. (applause from the left)
mr president, this is a very brief point of order. yesterday, mr president, mr watson fraudulently used the rules of procedure to refer to a sensitive subject such as gibraltar. today, he himself - mr watson - and the conservative representative have put on a show to address a fundamental issue which has produced helplessness, and i have not been able to respond, not even with a blue card. i appeal to your authority and your proven fairness to simply say that it is true that there is a problem in gibraltar, that it is no less true that there is a dialogue between the british prime minister and the president of the spanish government and that it is no less true that these problems are caused by the fact that the spanish government is trying to take measures to prevent tobacco smuggling, tax evasion and money laundering. that's what you're supposed to do: talk. too many nostalgic, electoral interventions in defence of a colony that has no meaning in europe.
madam president, today marks the 40th anniversary of the coup d'état in chile, and i would like to pay tribute, here today, to president salvador allende and to the thousands of chileans who were killed, tortured and disappeared. honor to president salvador allende, who knew how to immolate himself to defend the constitution of chile.
madam president, just a warning in relation to the voting list of the ppe group. on amendment 60, there is a separate vote in two parts. the first part, which is a roll-call vote, is marked as a key vote. the second part, which is also a roll-call vote, should also be a key vote; it is not marked as such on your voting list but the second part of amendment 60 should also be a key vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i share the need to defend the linguistic diversity of the european union, as explicitly stated in article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the report calls on the member states of the european union to preserve and promote the minority languages that exist within their territory, and to ratify different international agreements at different levels that promote greater protection of minority languages. the report seeks to increase the obligations of the member states in this area, including its inclusion in compulsory education, and is manifested by the revitalization of the language in the full diversity of the european continent. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the defence of minority languages.
in writing. - the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has given further impetus to the objective of safeguarding, and also promoting, the cultural and linguistic heritage of the european union in all its diversity. this report is of great importance for raising awareness of and protecting linguistic diversity in the union and for establishing exchanges of good practice and evaluation procedures between language communities. during its processing in the culture committee, a compromise was reached on an amendment that strengthens the immersion education system in catalonia by establishing that "as has been scientifically proven, a [linguistic] policy of promoting two or more languages would benefit children and help them to learn other languages later, in addition to promoting the intergenerational transmission of languages". the report was unanimously approved in committee. we should welcome the adoption of this report, which recognises multilingualism as a richness and an expression of european diversity.
in writing. the report on endangered european languages, which was put to the vote today, was adopted by an overwhelming majority, and i welcome that. europe is one of the continents with the richest linguistic and cultural diversity. this heritage is composed of the official languages but also of several dozen languages which are now threatened with extinction, according to the inventory maintained by unesco. the treaty of lisbon has extended the european union's powers to contribute to the flowering of national and regional cultures. this own-initiative report is a new impetus for the promotion and support of the safeguarding of these languages. when a language disappears, a part of europe's heritage disappears. it is therefore the responsibility of the union to act to safeguard it! the report calls on the member states which still refuse to take the necessary measures, starting with the ratification of the european charter for regional or minority languages. it called for a relaunch of a european policy in favour of endangered languages and for support for programmes to safeguard these languages by the linguistic communities concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i share the idea that the executive director of the european environment agency should present you to the competent bodies of the european parliament before his recruitment. it is a formal expression of the scrutiny that parliament's legislative power must exercise over a major decision such as the appointment of the executive directors of the european union agencies. this report is presented because the regulations for other important agencies such as the european food safety authority, the european maritime agency, etc. already provide for the obligation for their executive directors to appear before parliament before their recruitment. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an increase in the resources available for the budget for the financial year 2013. the report includes an adjustment to make the budget available for funds from the application of fines and sanctions by the european union to different economic and political actors. the budgetary correction proposed in the report contains a significant increase in appropriations distributed proportionally between the different budget headings, potentially giving a boost to economic activity through the allocation of the above-mentioned revenue from fines and penalties. in addition, these revenues are expected to increase over the next financial year. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. even though we (greens/efa) consider that this dab will not be sufficient to cover the shortfall in payments – the commission’s own calculations point to another shortfall of eur 12 billion even in case of full adoption of dab 2 at the end of the year – we nevertheless had to support it, even if we will only adopt a run-down amending budget. but eur 7.3 billion for the eu budget is of course better than nothing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an increase in the resources available for the 2013 budget, as less has been spent in 2012 than has been received by the union. the report includes an adjustment to enable the budget to be made available from the surplus of the budget of the european union for the last financial year 2012. in the context of economic crisis, the union has been pursuing an absurd policy of austerity, instead of trying to boost its economic activity through the use of its funds. these funds, which amount to just over one billion euros, are a necessary source for the promotion of all kinds of policies to alleviate the european crisis. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − against. legally, we have to adopt this dab, but in the current circumstances, where the council does not respect any deal made with parliament on amending budgets on the expenditure side, we should clearly postpone its adoption as long as possible. at least, until the council agrees to pay for the second tranche of dab 2 (see related briefing) later during the year. in the report, both issues are linked, but by adopting the surplus dab next week, this link will disappear as is no prospect of having a quick adoption of the second tranche of dab 2. therefore, we have voted against the report, not for reasons of substance, but for reasons of timing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it means an increase in jobs within the abovementioned european union agencies. i think it is essential that these agencies have the necessary manpower and capacity to be able to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the political mandate effectively, and this is what this report is about. the different agencies will be strengthened by the addition of new staff to fulfil the different political mandates assigned to them. the new contracts respect the funds allocated by the commission to these agencies. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. plenary voted on this draft report on dab 4, which the commission adopted on 29 april to reinforce the establishment plans of the gnss decentralised agency, of the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency (eacea) and of the court of justice. the commission’s proposal is budgetary neutral. we supported this dab.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it defends the union's financial support to try to help the people of slovenia, croatia and austria who were affected by the severe floods last autumn. the floods were a natural disaster which caused extensive damage in all three countries. the european union has set up the solidarity fund to help member states rebuild after all kinds of disasters. more than 14 million euros are being mobilised to help these villages through various reconstruction projects following the damage caused by the severe floods. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to amend the european union budget to enable financial resources to be mobilised to help the people of slovenia, croatia and austria affected by the severe floods which occurred in the autumn of last year. the floods were a natural disaster which caused extensive damage in all three countries. the european union has set up the solidarity fund to help member states rebuild after all kinds of disasters. this report amends the budget to make good the damage caused by the severe floods. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. dab 5/2013 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in favour of croatia, slovenia and austria following the disasters caused by the intense rainfalls and consequent floods in autumn 2012, which affected large parts of these countries. council approved the dab without modification. we supported this dab.
in writing. − in favour. parliament has today taken a tentative step towards addressing the negative climate impact of land-based biofuels. ensuring that emissions from indirect land use change are accounted for under the fuel quality directive from 2020 onwards will help ensure the eu is not promoting use of biofuels that clearly have a negative climate impact. this would help steer investors and the fuel industry away from bad biofuels in the medium-term. however, regrettably, a narrow majority voted against starting negotiations with the council to conclude this legislation. this will further delay urgently needed action to tackle climate-damaging biofuels. the result on iluc is also undermined by the failure to include emissions resulting from iluc in the calculation of the greenhouse gas savings limit for biofuels under the euʼs renewables directive. this contradictory vote ignores the overwhelming evidence that europeʼs biofuel consumption is leading to the destruction of tropical rainforests, with major greenhouse gas implications. there will consequently be no guarantee that land-based biofuels perform better than conventional oil-based fuels in the near future. it is also seriously disappointing that parliament voted to allow a 6 % share of land-based biofuels like food crops in the overall fuel mix.
in writing. - i voted against the final vote on the legislative resolution because i disagreed with the rejection of the rapporteur's proposal to postpone the final vote in order to start negotiations with the council immediately. the formula adopted leads, in my view, to the difficulty of dealing with this matter in this parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to promote the recovery of european eel and the reduction of its mortality due to factors external to fishing. the report includes an obligation for member states to draw up scientific reports providing information on the state of the stocks of this species and to make it available as soon as possible to the european institutions to implement plans to reduce the mortality of the species. the report does not address the different activities related to fishing for this species and the stocks associated with these activities, but points to different factors such as the hydroelectric industry. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a step forward in the harmonization of the customs systems of the member states, with a view to the implementation of the european common market. the report also calls for the establishment of a european customs union, which would be based on the principle of free movement of goods. however, the report does not specify who should control these customs information systems, who should be in charge of collecting funds and what these public funds should be used for. i have voted against this report because it seeks to promote the development of a common market.
in writing. − in favour. the commission proposed in the union customs code (ucc) recast to adjust some provisions of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 to the evolution of customs and other relevant legislation, to align it to procedural requirements resulting from the treaty of lisbon and to postpone its application. most of the provisions of the regulation no 450/2008 laying down the community customs code (mcc) were therefore affected by changes, either because of the impact of the alignment on the treaty of lisbon or because of the need for adjustments because of the further evolution of relevant eu legislation. the customs union is an essential element in the functioning of the single market and the single market can only function properly when there is a common, consistent application of common, modern customs rules and systems. in the interests of underpinning a dynamic environment for competitiveness and growth, while at the same time providing for the proper uniform levels of controls of goods, the rapporteur tabled amendments which promote modern and simple customs rules, based on leading-edge systems, so that controls can be harmonised in such a way that the economic operator (eo) needs to give the information only once.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is only intended to enable the commission to develop the necessary instruments for improving the information system on farmers known as the farm accountancy data network (fadn). this accounting information network of agricultural holdings in the european union is a fundamental tool for analysing the effectiveness of the common agricultural policy and the trends of change that are taking place in many farms on the continent. the report does not present any problematic points and will only allow for a better development of this database which is one of the most important in the world in this field. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the farm accountancy data network (fadn) was established in 1965 to certify farm income and give a business analysis of agricultural holdings. in time, the fadn evolved and the network spread to all eu member states. to date it is the only harmonised database of microeconomic data, as a similar approach is taken in all member states. so it is an important tool for assessing agricultural policies, as each year it collects data on the income, inputs and outputs of a representative sample of agricultural holdings in the eu. the report, amending regulation (eu) no 1217/2009, does not substantively affect the fadn.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes no problematic changes in the area of the breakfast bus, which includes 5 directives on products related to this meal. these include coffee, sugar and dehydrated milk, which are regulated by the abovementioned directives and which make up a significant part of the breakfast consumption of european citizens. the report merely proposes an improvement in the powers delegated to the commission, so that it can amend the technical annexes in the light of any technological changes and improvements which are continually taking place in the food industry. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the rapporteur noted in his draft report that the current texts of the breakfast directives provide for comitology measures (within the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (rps) for directives 1999/4/ec and 2000/36/ec) or regulatory procedure, requiring an opinion from parliament (for directives 2001/111/ec, 2001/113/ec, 2001/114/ec), with a rather broad scope. however the com proposal goes beyond that and envisages delegated acts also for amending characteristics that affect the descriptions, definitions or names of products, that is, essential elements of the basic acts. he therefore proposes strictly limiting the scope of delegated acts to non-essential elements only, as provided for by article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and for a renewable five-year period subject to review. the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety follows overall the line of the draft report, significantly limiting the delegation of powers. annexes relating to descriptions, definitions or names of products are thus considered as essential elements which can be changed only by amending the basic act within the ordinary legislative procedure. we, greens/efa, agreed with the line taken by the rapporteur.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the political line of my group in this parliament is to welcome any agreement which seeks to facilitate the granting of visas in order to guarantee the human right of freedom of movement. the agreement specifically proposes that the member states should facilitate the issuing of visas to cape verdean citizens and that cape verde should reciprocate. it also calls for the granting of free visas to citizens of both parties to the agreement and the abolition of visa requirements for short stays by their citizens in the respective countries. i think it is absolutely necessary to make it easier to obtain visas for all the countries of the world and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. we approve the visa facilitation agreement. as regards the readmission agreement (see later), we have serious concerns. on one hand, in accordance with article 13(5)(c) of the cotonou agreement, there is a general obligation of readmission of nationals. on the other, the present agreement covers also third-country nationals and stateless persons. according to unhcr, with no national legislation and no institutional body within the government taking responsibility for asylum-seekers and refugees, cape verde is not fully meeting its international obligations in the field of refugee protection. while very few asylum applications are registered each year, the actual number of asylum seekers arriving on the territory is unknown, because there is no procedure in place to ensure systematic registration and processing of asylum claims. there is also no information available on the treatment of persons in need of international protection and on effective safeguards against refoulement at the border or from within the territory. besides, we are against linking visa facilitation with readmission as such. thus, we reject the readmission agreement.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i consider, as does my group in this parliament, that the admission procedures are absolutely illegal because they violate the human right to freedom of movement and they mark migrants as illegal. we are now seeing states branding certain people as illegal and forcing them to return to their countries of origin in violation of their human rights, while right-wing groups are beating and killing them in almost every european country. the report not only raises the question of readmission in the countries of origin without considering the rights of migrants, but it does not even guarantee that readmission procedures will be stopped if it is shown that the person is in danger of being punished, tortured or ill-treated on his return to the country. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − against. as regards the readmission agreement, we have serious concerns. on the one hand, in accordance with article 13(5)(c) of the cotonou agreement, there is a general obligation of readmission of nationals. on the other, the present agreement covers also third-country nationals and stateless persons. according to unhcr, with no national legislation and no institutional body within the government taking responsibility for asylum-seekers and refugees, cape verde is not fully meeting its international obligations in the field of refugee protection. while very few asylum applications are registered each year, the actual number of asylum seekers arriving on the territory is unknown, because there is no procedure in place to ensure systematic registration and processing of asylum claims. there is also no information available on the treatment of persons in need of international protection and on effective safeguards against refoulement at the border or from within the territory. besides, we are against linking visa facilitation with readmission as such. thus, we reject the readmission agreement.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it makes criticisms which i share in the evaluation of the strategy, it does not propose a radical change in the strategy and maintains that it should continue along the same path. although this strategy has made it possible to mobilise considerable resources, the situation in the countries of southern europe is such that it cannot wait any longer. the european institutions claim that this strategy is their great workhorse, when no young people in the south have seen any improvement, and this strategy blames young europeans for their situation, rather than blaming the financial system. the owners of the means of production are to blame for the plight of the young, their own ineptitude prevents them from creating jobs with the most prepared generation in history. i therefore abstained, although i share some of the views expressed in this report.
in writing. - the eu youth strategy must take account of the current economic and social reality on the continent to provide answers to the challenges facing young people today. among these, measures to facilitate the transition from education to the world of work must be implemented to avoid the current disconnect between the training supply and the needs of the labour market. in the context of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, the allocations for youth and education policies should be increased to address current challenges, but also future challenges that may arise as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − in favour. the report is good and voluntary, as it covers not only the results of the first cycle of the youth strategy, but insists even more on possible new challenges which have arisen since 2009 and out of the present crisis. it does consider the situation not only in terms of ‘employability’, but also in terms of participation, autonomy, resistance to extremism and radicalism, referring to ‘clear shines of hope’. the construction of the report has largely taken into account the shadows’ remarks and positions: for example, we insisted on participation in society and quality learning – quality jobs. this was developed and taken entirely on board.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because it does not support a genuine commitment to solving the extreme situation facing young people in southern europe. in spain, thousands of young people leave the country every month because of despair at an underdeveloped business system that does not seek skilled work but labour, the cheaper the better. because of the austerity policies developed since the beginning of the crisis, youth are suffering a loss of rights such as exclusion from health care and loss of all kinds of social benefits. i agree with many of the points made in this report, but i do not think it goes into the root causes of the problems of young people and therefore does not propose a real solution to their problems. i have therefore not voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - abstentions from voting. in europe today, youth unemployment is twice as high as that of its elders! 14 million are the so-called 'young people', who neither study nor work, and more than 50% of young people in spain and greece are unemployed! and the european commission and the council have simply increased the rhetoric, but they have not changed the facts or the austerity policies, which not only do not create jobs but destroy jobs and create more precariousness. in this context, the european parliament has allowed the lost generation to continue to be lost. the resolution adopted today is clearly insufficient and weaker than the 2009 report in failing to set out concrete measures in response to the frightening figures on youth unemployment in europe. it is unacceptable to try to reduce youth unemployment simply by asking educational institutions to adapt their curricula to the needs of the labour market and it is frivolous to ask young people to continue their education.
in writing. - today we adopted two resolutions (the second deals with the implementation of the eu youth strategy 2010-2012) in which we propose measures to combat youth unemployment. the youth unemployment rate in the eu is currently over 20% and in spain over 55%. this is therefore one of the main challenges we must face as representatives of millions of young europeans. we therefore call for three things: the improvement of national education systems, adapting them to the needs of the present labour market; the creation of a european framework of quality for traineeships, including the introduction of criteria on pay, working conditions and social security; and, finally, the improvement of the possibilities for european mobility for young people.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the project of the internal market in services involves a real privatisation of a large part of the public sector in all the member states. this is one of the most violent neoliberal attacks by european institutions on the welfare state as we know it. the rapporteur of this report represents the most radical ideology of the ruling class in the european union, she shows how finance capital seeks to commercialise many areas of public life which have historically belonged to the state, such as education, health, etc., in order to create new areas of profit for capital which is not capable of generating wealth but destroys it. it is because of this strong neoliberal orientation that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − against. greens/efa tabled amendments in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) to emphasise mainly that: a) the services directive cannot be seen as the major instrument to boost the european economy, as the supporters of the directive are pretending; and b) public authorities must be able to invoke reasons of general interest whenever they are justified to regulate the services market. we already voted against this in imco. in plenary, we tabled a few amendments in order to give political visibility once again to our position on the services directive and its implementation problems. however these amendments were defeated, therefore we voted against the report in plenary too.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because i believe that, despite the fact that there are some points of interest in the agreement on cooperation, free trade does not bring development to the people, but quite the opposite. the report recognises that the eu-malaysia agreement cannot be based solely on trade but must include legal and political arrangements. this may allow a breakthrough in relations between the two parties, but we cannot forget the destructive environmental impacts that the palm oil trade causes on the country's tropical and wet forests, which have been virtually devastated. trade with the eu has damaging environmental and social effects that cannot be reversed. i therefore could not vote in favour of this report, even though i consider it to be an improvement on the current agreement.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for the slightly earlier start for this debate. on 21 august 2013 we saw chemical weapons used to kill hundreds of people in syria. this is a war crime, a crime against humanity, and it runs contrary to all the values of the international community. we have had extensive discussions, both within the ministers’ meeting in vilnius where we were joined by both elmar brok in his capacity as chair of the committee on foreign affairs – and i thank him for his attendance – and by secretary kerry, who came to an extraordinary part of the meeting to talk with us about syria and about events in the region. we agreed there and then that a strong international response was needed in the face of this crime and that we have to prevent impunity and prevent creating a horrific precedent for the use of chemical weapons. of course we are now paying great attention to the developments that are following, hour by hour, with the russian proposal built on the words of secretary kerry and obviously discussions that took place in st petersburg, namely to put syria’s chemical weapons under international surveillance. but i will come back to that, if i may, in a moment. because i also think that we need to remember the broader picture of what is happening in syria. in these past weeks we have witnessed yet another round of spiralling violence in the country. the regime has stepped up its military campaign against the opposition-held areas, sometimes taking recourse to indiscriminate shelling of entire neighbourhoods. we have seen deeply disturbing reports of increased violence along confessional and ethnic lines. there were attacks against the alawi population at the hands of extremist rebel groups, followed by a harsh response from the regime. some christian communities have been targeted recently. in the north-east, intensive fighting involving the syrian kurds lasted for weeks and resulted in increased refugee flows to iraq. i want to commend the un investigation mission for engaging in their field inquiry into the attack of 21 august with courage and speed in what was very obviously an extremely difficult security situation. it is now of the utmost importance that they complete their report as soon as possible and that the work going on in laboratories in sweden, finland and elsewhere gives us the information, confirmed through these reports, that is already established through other reports that many member states and international partners have been engaged in. we have seen that there is assessment coming forward that only the regime possesses chemical agents and the means of their delivery in sufficient quantity to have carried out the attack on 21 august. it is really important that we recognise that information as well. the conclusion that so many have already reached is that therefore the regime was behind the attack and they have given support to an international response by force, given what is happening in terms of the blockage of the security council. we have consistently emphasised the need for the efforts in the security council to come to fruition, to try to effectively end this conflict. i say again that the role of the security council is crucial and irreplaceable but it does rely on the members of the security council assuming their responsibilities. it is deeply regrettable that they have not yet shouldered that responsibility with regard to this conflict. internationally we work with all partners – the united states, russia, the un and many arab nations – to achieve a united international response in the light of the developments that we see taking place in syria now. i have already referred to the meeting in vilnius, where we found a common language from all eu-28 member states. some had already signed up to the language of the g20 and some might argue that our language is not quite the same, but i think we formulated a substantial eu position: condemnation of the chemical attack; recognition of the evidence of the regime’s responsibility; the necessity for the international community to respond and a strong call to the security council to fulfil its responsibilities; the emphasis which has been placed consistently by all that i have spoken to on a political solution and support for what has become known as the geneva ii initiative; and our commitment to providing aid on a continuing basis now and into the future. let me say a little more about recent developments which, as i say, are continuing hour by hour to be developed. russia has proposed putting the syrian chemical weapons arsenal under international control and destroying it eventually. we see that the syrian foreign minister, mr muallem, when he was in moscow, welcomed the proposal. the secretary-general is urging the security council along these lines. support is coming from many different directions. i think it is very important to take this momentum and to use it because what we are seeing, for the first time in a long time, is the international community uniting towards an action on syria. but as honourable members will be the first to say, we need to approach this with care and examine the developments in detail. first of all, we need to ensure that the syrian regime not only says it will agree to international action, but it must do so quickly, fully and without conditions, follow up with transparency and make sure that it adheres to all the requirements. in other words, it needs to be a different response from the response we have had in the past – broken promises and obstacles put in the way of international efforts. we have discussed many times the fact that ultimately there has to be a political solution that can deliver the syrian people from this traumatic experience, from the suffering and the ruin of the country and of the people and the total disregard we see so often for human rights. it is extremely important that the plight of the refugees is not ignored and that we continue to find not only ways of putting more resources at the disposal of the refugee population but of finding better, smarter and quicker ways to provide the resources that are needed, especially for the people who are suffering inside the country. those honourable members who have talked on this subject with the un, our commissioner georgieva or the people who are going into syria on a regular basis will know just how complex it is to try to move support – medical aid and supplies, food and so on – across parts of the country, many of which are held by different groups in a very difficult situation. we of course continue, by the way, to send in missions on a regular basis to syria. the latest development, therefore, that we have is an opportunity to reinvigorate, not just trying to sort out the chemical weapons issue but the broader political dimension. i hope that we will seize the opportunity to try to urge all to do this. we know that tomorrow secretary kerry will meet with minister lavrov in geneva to try to work out exactly what this initiative might mean and to go into the detail of what would have to happen when, how and by whom. we put the eu at the disposal of the work that is ongoing in order to see how we can contribute – not if, but how. it is also important to try to move ahead and get this peace process moving. honourable members will no doubt, in the course of your deliberations, argue that the threat of strikes has been the most important element in bringing the initiative to the table that can try to tackle chemical weapons. whatever your view, the reality is that this is a moment to try to pull towards the process that is so necessary to find a political solution. we need to engage with all partners, as we are doing, to find ways to achieve that. we will continue to work to that end. i have also mentioned the ongoing humanitarian disaster. we have already provided eur 1.3 billion between the institutions of the european union and member states, but honourable members will know too that the un estimates that much more will be needed. we need to prepare for the end of this conflict too and the rebuilding of a nation which many figures say is 70% or so destroyed, not to mention the lives of people that have been destroyed, people who have been killed, children who have been orphaned and people who have been badly injured and maimed. a huge amount will need to be done. we have to reaffirm our commitment to the people of syria and to support them in every way possible through our humanitarian aid and in a political process that can try to bring peace. we have to do that by being prepared to work out on the ground how that can happen, place by place as well as across the whole nation, being able and willing to support the moves to get rid of the chemical weapons and being prepared to work with our international partners in a process that can make the security council do its work but also ensure that we respond to the challenge as well. i hope the resolution that you will put forward will be able to help and support the work that is ongoing by the european union to do that and i thank you for it.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the syrian crisis shows, on the one hand, the inadequacy of the european union's external action, despite the treaty of lisbon, despite its efforts, mrs ashton, and despite the positive conclusions of the informal council of foreign ministers in vilnius last weekend, and it also shows, in a dramatic way, the ineffectiveness of the united nations, which, in its composition, in its organs and in its functioning, does not correspond to the founding spirit of the charter of st. francis. and all of this translates into two things: assad and his allies win at least for the moment and the syrian people thousands of dead, millions of displaced people in an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe lose. it seems that a diplomatic initiative is now being taken to try to bring chemical weapons under international control and to destroy them. i welcome that, but this must be done by means of an urgent, binding resolution, which, in the event of non-compliance, must give way to the application of chapter 7 of the united nations charter. however, this initiative raises a question, mrs ashton, whether all these developments will actually allow the syrian regime to continue to massacre its people with conventional weapons, and whether we should not take advantage of this security council resolution to support the existence of a humanitarian corridor that would ease the tension of the humanitarian crisis and to propose and encourage the creation of a no-fly zone. we are spending, mrs ashton, huge sums of money on our renewed mediterranean policy and the situation in our immediate neighbourhood could not be more bleak. it is not up to us alone, of course, but i think that, regardless of the fact that important resources are being mobilised, as the occasion demands, of course we must try to speak with one voice and, of course, mrs ashton, we must be interested in having more weight in this political arena. i shall end, mr president, by asking you, mrs ashton, if you can do anything to prevent the seven people who have been taken hostage in camp ashraf, six of whom are women, from being tortured and executed, as has happened before.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mrs ashton, my group - you heard it in vilnius at the interparliamentary security conference - is against the dramatic civil war and against any kind of intervention. we must strive for a diplomatic, political solution, within the regional framework and always under the umbrella of the united nations charter, not outside the united nations charter. we have in mind the solemn appearance in february 2003 of the then secretary of state, colin powell, at the security council, where he presented to the international community the evidence which, according to the united states, proved that saddam hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction. just like now, the same administration. we are calling for an impartial investigation, and it must be by the united nations. there has been a crime - the use of chemical weapons is a war crime - but we must not rule out any investigation: that saudi arabia may also have supplied the rebels with these chemical weapons. and that's why, because we have in our retinas that appearance, which produced an illegal, immoral war, we don't want to see the same thing happen again, with the same intelligence services assuming good information that was released internationally. you see, an intervention against the united nations charter is a return to barbarism. and if there is any area in the world that has to demand compliance with the united nations charter it is europe - world war i and ii - and the united nations charter wants to avoid the use of force and finally control chemical weapons, all of them, there are no good and bad. europe must lead an international convention to put an end to all nuclear, bacteriological and chemical weapons. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr president, you will not give a damn that a us secretary of state appeared before the highest body of the united nations security council to prove to the world that there was evidence incriminating saddam hussein. it is the same administration of the same state; it is true that it is another party, but it is the same state, the same intelligence services, the same services that spy on us, on europeans. oh, what a capacity! and we also have to take into account the journalists who are there, on the ground. you don't read the journalists because you don't care, and there are journalists, even bbc journalists, who say they have interviewed the victims, the families, and they said, "we were given some chemicals by the intelligence services of saudi arabia". i can submit a lot of photos, too.
mr president, i would like to say to baroness ashton that she knows very well that under cover of the conflict in syria that is concentrating the attention of western governments and public opinion, the iraqi government has initiated the final phase of the physical liquidation of the 3 000 members of the iranian democratic opposition that reside in iraq. in relation to this, baroness ashton, i ask you immediately to do the following. tell prime minister maliki that, if there is another murder or the seven hostages are not freed, this will have severe consequences at a diplomatic, financial and political level for him and we will take him to an international court to answer for these crimes. organise, with the united nations, blue helmet protection for ashraf and call for an urgent meeting of foreign affairs ministers of the union to accept refugees in their countries. anything less than that is a waste of time.
mr president, my party is the party of international law, as we have shown in the illegal war in iraq, by protesting and taking decisions that corresponded to international law. a crime against humanity cannot go unanswered, but this response must be legal, and the legal way is through the united nations, which has the means to bypass any blockade by the security council, and also through the united nations, which certifies who has used chemical weapons and whether those chemical weapons have been used. it must be the united nations and not the secret services of any country. mrs ashton, twenty-four hours before the 28 member states of the european union signed that resolution, or that declaration, in vilnius, five member states of the european union met and signed a separate document in which they stated that they supported a possible military intervention and, verbatim, said: 'because the world cannot be waiting for endless processes in the united nations'. five member states of the european union! mrs ashton, the union's coordination of external action beyond humanitarian aid continues to fail; take the lead in geneva ii, asserting the weight the european union should have.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the last time that i was in this chamber before the summer break, i was on my way to egypt. i have been to egypt three times since we last met. this summer has been a summer of contacts and discussion, with many countries but most of all with many people within egypt. i went then, as i have been ever since, to urge them to go forward towards the democratic future that those who stood up in tahrir square – and sometimes died in tahrir square – stood up and said they wanted, stood up and said they believed that this was the right future for their country. i went on that visit when i left this house to see mohammed morsi, then in his presidential palace, and i told him that i believed that he and his country were running out of time. it was obvious that the failure to deliver political and economic change to the people of egypt had led to the prospect of huge demonstrations and civil unrest. my meetings with civil society on that occasion showed how far their alienation was from the government: not one organisation said anything remotely positive about the situation that they found. now honourable members know that we had been working for many months to support a political solution that would have seen real progress, progress to be inclusive with the then opposition and to listen to the people. a process that would have helped to ensure a more democratic and more prosperous egypt. so i left on that occasion with a real, deep sense of foreboding. it seemed to me that there was a president who believed it was enough to be elected, but not someone who understood that democracy demanded much, much more than that. i have been very fortunate in our special representative, bernardino leon, who has built strong ties with all sides of egyptian political life, and i pay tribute to him for the very many weeks that he has spent in egypt on my behalf. that meant that when i went back with my director, christian berger, we had real access to all of those who were trying to promote a democratic future. to all the key political forces within egypt. but i want to be absolutely clear: it is our principles that have guided us in our discussions in egypt. we do not take sides in terms of the choices that people make, but we are very clear. we believe in a constitution that will support democracy. we believe in the rule of law. we believe in justice and we believe in respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and those are the messages we have given consistently to egypt over the last two years – in the 11 visits i have made, in the very many more visits that our special representative has made, our colleagues in the member states have made, that you have made, that so many others have made. these are fundamental principles upon which the country needs to go forward. so when we saw the dramatic changes, i went back to egypt to press these points to those who had then taken power. to general al-sisi, president mansour, to vice-president elbaradei, and to foreign minister fahmy. i talked about the need for inclusivity and the danger, the real danger of excluding parts of society, the need to release political prisoners. i met with the tamarod young people, the movement who had collected over 20 million signatures and who had been fundamentally part of the growing concern that so many people wanted to express, and of course, i saw the freedom and justice party on that occasion. but i was asked to go back to egypt both by international stakeholders, including the united states and most importantly for me, by the egyptians themselves – not to mediate – but to spend time talking with all to help them to find the elements of an agreement that could help them move forward. at that moment there was a real fear, and you could feel it, that we would see clashes as the brotherhood were occupying the squares. we could see there were people who wanted to move against the squares, partly out of fear – there was genuine fear about the build-up of weapons, i saw no evidence of that but i did not go into the squares – and of course growing concern about the terrorism in sinai. with all of them we worked through the elements of a plan: a plan that could build confidence between them, that could ensure that inclusivity, that could strengthen and deepen what i called our value-based approach. and we gave those elements to all groups, all individuals that we met – and they remain valid today; they will support the future of an inclusive egypt as you know, i saw again all the leaders that i had seen before, but i also met the salafist nour party, the 6 april movement and i went to see mohammed morsi where he was being held. with all them we worked through the different elements in great detail and we told everyone what we thought was required. bernardino leon went into the squares and spent days there talking to the people there too. and we talked to countries in the region, all of those with an interest. you will have seen that we collaborated closely. one manifestation of that was the visit that bernardino leon led to the prison to see al-shatar, with the deputy secretary of state bill burns, and the foreign ministers of qatar and the united arab emirates. i have to tell you that the growing level of violence and the polarisation that we saw even then was really alarming. i could feel the antipathy on the streets to the brotherhood. i could see the growing numbers of people who were demanding action. the growing worries of religious groups – the christian community, with good reason, as they saw later so many churches destroyed. i brought the foreign affairs council together in august in the wake of what we saw was terrible violence – condemned by me on behalf of the european union – and our growing worries about the future of the country. honourable members will have seen that member states decided to suspend their licences for equipment that could be used for internal repression and are reviewing their security cooperation including arms exports. but i want to say something too about our funding. we do not provide budget support for egypt at the present time. we do support socio-economic projects for people, especially the most vulnerable, in healthcare, in our school feeding programmes, in looking to help poor neighbourhoods and programmes for women. i proposed to member states that we should continue with those programmes. i honestly believe we must continue to support the people. and i hope that i will have support in this house to continue to do that. we did not fail in the action that we took. we did what we set out to do. we remain in touch with the egyptian authorities, with politicians on all sides on a regular basis. we do not take sides – we work to try and help achieve the best for the people. and we continue to stand by the people of egypt who overwhelmingly want a return to democracy, to civilian rule and a strong and peaceful future. and as i have indicated to egypt, i am ready to go back to offer our support and our help – not our interference. it is without question a great country, and a strong partner for the european union. we want this country to succeed, we want to support it to do so, but to do so with the principles and values that we hold.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative/vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to express my appreciation for the efforts made by the high representative and the european external action service, including the special representative, bernardino león, during the summer in their mediation efforts, and to assess very positively the fact that mrs ashton was able to meet mr morsi, as she was the only representative from the western world who was able to maintain this contact. unlike other conflicts, european diplomacy is therefore relevant and exists in the egyptian crisis. as regards the polarization of the situation, madam high representative, i believe that the european union's contribution should be to support the cessation of violence and, as you said very well, to establish an inclusive dialogue and understanding between the various forces in the country, blinded and vitiated by centuries of hatreds of all kinds. i also believe that a credible process of democratic transition should be restored, starting with the drafting of a constitution that respects fundamental rights and freedoms, a referendum to approve the draft constitution, a presidential election and legislative elections that could provide a response and democratic normalisation to the situation in the country. but let us not be deceived, mrs ashton, this road map can be implemented, but what cannot be achieved overnight is economic and social progress. the european union is a great power: we are the main trading partner, we send 80 per cent of the tourism that the country receives and we are the main investor. i would be very careful, mrs ashton, to consider aid from the european union, and in this context, as we are not wrong, as you said very well, it is helping and supporting the egyptian society and people on the basis of our values. i would like to ask you, mr president, whether you think that the joint resolution which the european parliament is voting on tomorrow, in which the military takeover is deplored, is a positive element in ensuring and continuing to ensure a proper and privileged dialogue between the european union and the egyptian authorities and the rest of civil society.
mr president, unfortunately the hopes aroused in egypt by the fall of mubarak have not been fulfilled. we have seen a disastrous management by the muslim brotherhood, rejected by the army, many egyptian citizens and various political forces. in august we also witnessed a disproportionate - very disproportionate - use of force by the new regime that deposed president morsi. today there is not only polarization, but confrontation between political forces, the opposite of what democratic transitions require: dialogue, flexibility, a spirit of compromise and consensus; unfortunately, all of which has not been seen in egypt in recent times. i regret that the european union, which has invested heavily in the political situation in neighbouring egypt over the past two years, has not been able to influence the recent serious developments. we must now insist on the need for a generous process of reconciliation in the country, and we must certainly contribute to it, and we must of course demand that the drafting of its constitution be based on a dialogue as inclusive as possible - as has just been said - and lead to a democratic and pluralist regime. unfortunately, in the complex and difficult situation in egypt, there is a lot at stake and - as i have already had the opportunity to say in this house - there is also the relevance of the european union as a political actor at stake - i am very much afraid.
mr president, i commend the efforts of mrs ashton and bernardino león in their efforts in egypt and i believe that the european union's action must continue to support the formation of a civil government of national unity, inclusive, multiparty and necessarily including the muslim brotherhood; a government that will lead the country to free elections and the consolidation of democratic institutions. if mr morsi, the only democratically elected president in the history of egypt, was not living up to the expectations of the egyptian people, the military government that has taken power after the coup is not living up to them either, and the abuse of power that is the disproportionate use of force proves it. it is absurd that the only democratically elected president is in prison and former president mubarak has been released. we need, mrs ashton, that the european union maintains aid to egypt, that the principle of conditionality is relaxed, because we need to strengthen civil society and we need to strengthen the democratic institutions, which we are seeing are very lacking.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i think my dear friend the minister will be very pleased if i reply to the debate. i thank him very much for his support. the most important thing about this debate has been the clear support that everyone who has spoken has shown for the people of egypt and the future of this great nation. i talked about what i saw as missed opportunities over the last years when political solutions could have been found and when perhaps the way that the evolution of the fledging democracy happened could have been better handled. we have tried to support and help where we can, in the right way, because, as a number of colleagues have said, we have huge experience in this house and beyond, from all member states, of trying to build democracies, however mature we think those democracies really are. one of the things that struck me in the visits that i made before the summer was that the fledgling democracy did not have the mechanisms for change. it did not have the constitution or the parliament working in the way that we would recognise, or any of the means to make the changes. it was pretty obvious, too – when you saw 30 million people beginning to gather – that change was coming in one form or another. the pictures that we saw of general al-sisi – if you remember, he was flanked on either side by the imam, the coptic pope, al-baradei, amr moussa – by many people – were, in a sense, our clue to try and understand what was happening. i have looked at the resolution – as mr salafranca asked me to do – and of course it is up to you how you describe the events. i think that if you talk to the military, you will find that they also regret that they had to participate in this. i would urge the honourable members – whatever you do – to look forward now into the future that needs to be built and to the support that we need to give the people. someone we know very well – the former secretary-general of the arab league, amr moussa (a presidential candidate) – is leading the work on the constitution. we wish him well. we have many times – and will continue to do so – talked about the need to have an inclusive team building that constitution, making sure that there is the possibility of a country that can go forward in an inclusive way, beginning with a constitution for all people that respects the rights of everyone, pays attention to the challenges which, for example, the coptic christians are currently facing, and recognises that they too need to feel that this constitution is for them. so do the people who have supported the muslim brotherhood and the people who are part of the freedom and justice party. egypt needs to arrive at elections in good shape and with a good constitution, a real process and a determination to build on the future and bring everybody alongside, and to have the arguments and debates in a real way that can help to secure parliament and the presidential elections, and to do so in a way that rejects violence and terrorism. we have seen reports in recent days of attempted assassinations, which is terrible. we have seen the terrible situation in sinai – terrorism that is affecting people in sinai, the army and ships that are going through the canal. i know that this is something the egyptians are working on with their neighbours, but it is of enormous concern if that terrorism grows. we know as well, as some honourable members have said, that economic recovery is crucial. when i was staying in the hotel that i often stay in, the occupancy was five per cent, and that was before the events that took place. tourism has completely collapsed and needs to regrow. the economic situation is very difficult. they are getting a lot of support from their neighbours to ensure that they do not have such a big hole in the accounts that it becomes impossible, but it is the economic recovery – the growth of small businesses and all the things that we are busy doing here in the european union – that is going to make a big difference. we have not released the money that we talked about through the task force, but we want to help and support the growth of the economy in egypt, because it is going to be a vital part of future stability. i am very happy at the specific request from the coptic christians to have stavros lambrinidis, our special representative on human rights, look at this too. i should pay tribute to him as well, because he has travelled with me to egypt and keeps in touch with many of the civil society groups on the ground. more than anything, parliament here has offered its support, and i think any messages you can send in support of a democratic future will be well received. for my part, i remain absolutely determined to help this great nation in any way that i can and to work with the people who have come to see us on a regular basis since the summer and with those in egypt – not to interfere or to intervene, but to show that, if they build on the political future in an inclusive way with the principles that we hold, then everyone is included, everyone has a stake and the country really can achieve what those first demonstrators went to tahrir square for in january two years ago. they went to support a democratic future for egypt.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is a great pleasure to be here with you today to discuss the gomes and giannakou reports, on behalf of the vice-president/high representative catherine ashton. both reports provide concrete guidance on how to strengthen our security within and outside the eu’s borders, and i very much welcome the energy and effort behind these comprehensive documents. the eu needs to be a reliable security provider, and continuous efforts need to be invested in building the capacity and the will of the 28 to act as a union, as this is undoubtedly our greatest potential and strength. concerning the gomes report, following the council of 26 april 2010 asking ‘to undertake work with a view to preparing options for the possible elaboration of a security strategy for the global maritime domain’, work is well under way on developing such a document. a dedicated interservice coordination group, under the political guidance of vice-president/high representative ashton and commissioner damanaki, has drafted a proposal for a european union maritime security strategy, and internal coordination is ongoing. member states have been involved in this process, both through consultations and their active contributions as presidencies of the council or sharing written contributions. analysis and recommendations contained in the gomes report add great value to the future strategy which, at this stage of drafting, addresses many of the key considerations expressed in the report. coordination, cooperation and synergy amongst all european union stakeholders is the main ‘fil rouge’ in the structure of the shaping-up document. the global maritime domain must be open, to allow for free trade and transport; it must be safe for shipping, economic activity and recreation; and it must allow the biodiversity of fish stocks and ecological integrity to be safeguarded. it must be secure, to prevent the seas and oceans from becoming areas for international disputes or safe havens for terrorism or organised maritime crime. all regional areas and the global network of maritime trade routes are of critical importance. the gulf of aden and the western indian ocean are an important area for cooperation, due to the presence there of international actors protecting vulnerable shipping and fighting piracy. the eu’s presence, through the european union naval force’s operation atalanta, fosters cooperation with international partners at sea. the leadership of atalanta in fighting the scourge of piracy off the coast of somalia has contributed to a drastic reduction in the number of attacks. this year there have been no successful hijackings as yet. this is a good result. our comprehensive efforts in this region are showing their effect. you may be aware that the eu has been asked to chair the contact group on piracy off the coast of somalia in 2014. this is a clear sign of the growing recognition of the eu’s role in this domain. concerning the giannakou report, i very much welcome this report as a significant contribution to the ongoing discussion on the eu’s military capabilities. the vice-president/high representative has a similar view on much of the analysis, especially as we may see ourselves at a strategic crossroads. let me outline our vision as we move towards the european council in december. the european union must be able to act decisively as a security provider – in partnership where possible but autonomously where necessary – in its neighbourhood, including through direct action. strategic autonomy must materialise first in the eu’s neighbourhood. to this end, the eu needs to be able to plan and decide on deploying capable assets rapidly, if required to do so. in addition, the ability to engage with partners will be essential. there is one essential theme: a comprehensive approach. we cannot achieve our political aims by using one military or civilian security instrument alone. this has been proved time and again, most recently in various operations in iraq, afghanistan and libya. the giannakou report highlights the need for enhanced planning and conduct capability. the external action service review presented by the vice-president/high representative is looking closely at csdp structures. we have also recently revised the planning process for csdp, incorporating the comprehensive approach from the very start of planning, and we have formalised fast track options to allow a very swift response if required. the eu battle groups will have a role here, and we are currently working closely with member states to invigorate this invaluable asset. the political requirement to act will also involve other partners and actors, not least nato, the united nations and the us. vice-president/high representative ashton and the secretary general of nato routinely meet and discuss areas of common interest, and our shared objective is to further enhance eu-nato relations. there are well-developed staff-to-staff contacts on capabilities and operations. both nato and the un acknowledge that strengthening european capabilities is also to their advantage. we need the capability to act. there are shortfalls in capabilities, and the financial crisis does not help to mitigate them: this is obvious. there are also areas of significant over-capacity. the european defence agency, the external action service structures and the member states are addressing this. finally, on the industrial aspects of security and defence, there is a clear interlinkage between investment and technological research, the development of common programmes, leading to the delivery of common capabilities at affordable cost, and the ability of the eu – through its member states – to act decisively when required. your reports are very timely. they are feeding the debate in which we engaged when security and defence were put squarely on the agenda of the december european council. we will keep asking for your support in the months following the december meeting and especially beyond, because by then we will have turned our proposals into reality.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr president, my question is: has corporal van orden read the reports he has spoken of? because it seems that neither he nor his predecessor - who i believe is a sergeant - have read the reports they are talking about.
mr president, in today's european union, it is a priority to improve economic union to the level required by monetary union, but we cannot neglect the security and defence dimension. there will be challenges, crises and conflicts in regions close to the union which will foreseeably require action by the european union in this security and defence dimension. we must also be aware that the united states does not want to continue to be the world's policeman. there's the doctrine of leading from behind or president obama's turn to asia. in addition, there are countries of growing economic and political importance in the world which do not want to assume greater responsibilities in maintaining global order, and there are areas in which nato will either not be willing or unable to act. i therefore believe that the union must pursue a credible and effective defence policy, gradually building up the necessary capabilities. this is what the giannakou and gomes reports insist on. the latter deals with the maritime dimension of a european union bordering many seas and whose powerful trade uses all the world's sea routes. the report also supports broad transatlantic cooperation along the lines i myself set out in a report adopted last june. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the european council in december will make progress on security and defence, but i know that it is difficult. this requires political will, leadership, openness and financial means, and indeed in this sense i believe that the r & d funding provided for in horizon 2020 should also reach the european defence industry.
mr president, the fact that i am already one of the last speakers or at least that i am speaking at a very late stage in the debate and that some twenty colleagues have spoken before me saves me from having to develop my arguments. i would like to support the two rapporteurs whose reports i support, mrs giannakou and mrs gomes, whom i congratulate. but what was also said by the chairman of the subcommittee on security and defence, mr danjean, or by mrs koppa, the socialist spokeswoman on that committee, made this speech very brief. i just want to say that i apologize to mr van orden if my words have offended him, because i have seen that he is one of the few who has participated or, rather, has remained in the whole debate, from beginning to end. although we disagree, the truth is that we share the concern for europe's common interests in matters of security and defence.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to make five points in reaction to this very interesting discussion. first, some members have called on me to be more robust in promoting strategic games. my answer is that i will not do this. there are others who have called on me to promote values more robustly. yes; i am in the business of promoting values in the eastern partnership. i have problems with participating in these zero-sum games as i am a great believer in the win-win approach, particularly when dealing with such an important, privileged and strategic partner as russia. i am definitely not in the business of creating new wars. on the contrary, transformation is the rule of the game. the association agreement, including this deep and comprehensive free trade area, is a most powerful instrument of that transformation. that is why the vilnius summit and the preparations for the eventual signing and initialling of this agreement are so important. the rule of the game is not to lower the bars or to forget about conditionality, but to offer a more strategic engagement with our partners. my second point is that we have to make a better job of communicating with our russian friends, making the point again and again that the eastern partnership is not at their expense and is not against them or their interests. it would appear that we also need to communicate better on the relationship between the association agreement and the customs union. i noted the media reporting the russian prime minister as saying this week that there is a lack of compatibility between those two concepts. we raised this issue with him and the rest of his government in february when the college was in moscow for a regular exchange of views, and we had already raised this issue before that. we are also raising such issues in the framework of the information and coordination group, in which the russian federation has an important place. each and every time we explain why this is not the case, making the point that this is not about political gain, but about the very pragmatic and practical issue of the extent to which our partners have sovereignty over their external trade policy. but we did not stop there. we have always added that we are the first to be interested in the traditional ties and cooperation between our partners and russia. we have always added that we stand ready to help our partners, and if necessary moscow as well, to fit the policies of the customs union and the eurasian union. the partners could align with these on the understanding that they will not be in contradiction with the obligations stemming from their association agreement and dcfta. we need to do a better job in making these points clear to our russian friends. my third point is that russia sees the extension of european union standards and norms as a potentially problematic issue because those of the customs union are currently not always identical with them. however, we are already actively cooperating with russia on the alignment of many norms and standards. this is a key element of the european union-russia partnership for modernisation, and these standards are also increasingly being adopted by the customs union. let me stress that european union norms are often adopted internationally and are, of course, fully compatible with wto rules. so the european union is actually helping all its partners, including russia, to modernise and open up to globalisation. likewise, the new agreement we have been negotiating to replace the european union-russia partnership and cooperation agreement should include provisions for greater convergence of the regulatory framework between the european union and russia, thereby helping to generate stability and predictability for both russian and european union companies. on the subject of companies and trade and the solidarity and unity to which many of you referred, let me, as my fourth point, say the following: we took note of the russian ban on moldovan agricultural products. we do not yet have full details on that decision but, at a first glance, we are not aware of any food safety reasons which would justify this. the european union’s own food safety authorities have not established any health or hygiene problems with imports from moldova and continues to import wine and other agricultural products from that country. let me also add that today, together with my colleague in the college, commissioner cioloş, who is responsible for agriculture, we have been in close contact and, as a result, we intend to look into the possibility of being able to further increase the wine quota for moldovan exports to the european union. i am also intending to send short-term expertise to moldova to help overcome some of the remaining barriers faced by their exports in other sectors, such as poultry. these signs of solidarity are, of course, also applicable to other partners who might become subject to this undue pressure. i would like to make the following concluding remarks. when we set out to build the eastern partnership in prague in 2009, the idea of the eurasian union project had yet to get off the ground. so it has been the russian decision to build the customs union and the eurasian union that has created a situation where our european partners now face a choice between the two projects for regional economic integration. let me make it clear that it is inconceivable that our partners should become victims of that incompatibility. it is inconceivable that, through a decision made freely, our partners should be punished and their trading relationship with custom union members threatened to be placed under far worse conditions than our own arrangements. one final point: on our side we stand ready to do all we can to avoid this and to work with our neighbours to find ways of maximising the compatibility between the european union and eurasian structures in a way that facilitates trade and economic integration to the benefit of our neighbours and also to the benefit of our neighbours’ neighbour.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by ms sandrine bélier, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on access to genetic resources and fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use in the union (com (2012) 0576 - c7-0322/2012 - 2012/0278 (cod)) (a7-0263/2013).
on behalf of the ppe group i would like to thank all those who have spoken and worked with sandrine bélier and the others, and i would also like to ask for your understanding and flexibility so that this document can go ahead. this is a document that is part of an international system, and this must be clarified, as i have already explained in my group, precisely to get it to support this document. why would you do that? because there is a saturation in the european environment at the moment: too much legislation, so that companies and the system are often really constrained by numerous limitations. this document is an international document and therefore, as so often, we must accept to enter that system. and i would like the commission to be extremely strong and my group to be able to support this document. i believe that the nagoya protocol is fair: it is fair that the countries of origin should be compensated; it is fair to avoid all forms of exploitation. but i also say that this is a document that is not yet mature. we are in the process, we must support the process, but we must bear in mind that instruments and bases are still lacking for it to be properly implemented. what do i mean? for example, rights: we have rights and obligations, but the rules of the game of those rights are not marked; many instruments are missing, for example, science. it is very rare for a country to have a catalogue of products for which it can scientifically and genetically prove that it is really and originally the owner. i therefore believe that the commission must be extremely strong in developing a research policy in this direction and in supporting this line, which, moreover, is going to create a lot of expectations in many people and, on the other hand, is going to create a lot of uncertainty in companies. i also ask for retroactivity, and i say that my group will only support the document if it is done. we consider it to be an element that has been in the system since roman law, so we ask that it be removed. otherwise, if there is a negative vote, it will be the responsibility of those groups which have not wanted to give in. we are asking for the retroactivity to be removed and for there to be no intellectual property in this area, of course.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the implementation of the eu internal security strategy by mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000068/2013 - b7-0213/2013) (2013/2636 (rsp)).
author. - mr president, we are here to discuss the internal security strategy, adopted in the first half of 2010 under the spanish presidency of the union, which sets out the challenges, principles and guidelines that must govern the response to security threats in europe. the strategy appears as a key measure of the stockholm programme; it in fact builds on a precept of the area of freedom, security and justice, as regulated by article 67 of the lisbon treaty, and it targets the most critical threats to our common security, where the european union can and must deliver added value, by curbing the criminal activities of international criminal networks, helping to dismantle them, preventing terrorist attacks, strengthening cybersecurity, ensuring the protection of the union's external borders and increasing resilience to natural disasters. it is clear that the world has changed a lot since 2010, with some new threats that require different policy responses. in order to keep itself properly informed, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) regularly interacts with europol and the current european union coordinator for counter-terrorism, mr de kerchove, and discusses the latest trends in crime and terrorism. we have had a long discussion with mr wainwright, who is the director of europol, on the serious and organised crime threat assessment report, which formed the basis for the council's decision last june on the new priorities for the european union in the fight against the most serious forms of organised crime for the next four years. the libe committee's motion for a resolution contains specific recommendations on these new priorities, which refer in particular to the fight against money laundering and arms trafficking as strategic priorities of the european union. in addition, we discussed with mr de kerchove, counter-terrorism coordinator, the new eu terrorism situation and trend report and the current concerns about so-called 'lone wolves', european militiamen in external contexts and radicalisation on the net. we have talked about all this in the motion for a resolution, but the fact is that in recent months we have also been working hand in hand with the temporary committee on crime, which is specifically concerned with organised crime, money laundering and corruption, and it is good that the european commission regularly assesses the strategy and whether it needs to be updated, and that the european parliament critically follows this evaluation process to continually indicate its own political priorities. we did it last year - my colleague mrs borsellino did it - and we are doing it again today. it is the second implementation report: we are discussing it; particular attention is being paid to trafficking in human beings, organised itinerant crime, cybercrime, violent extremism and hate crimes. the report shows that organised crime continues to be an internal threat in the union, not only to security but also to the european economy and therefore to the prospects of overcoming this crisis, and it lists concrete measures such as the fourth anti-money laundering directive, the directive on the protection of the union's financial interests, the so-called pif directive, for which i have the honour of being the rapporteur, and the cybercrime strategy. in short, the libe committee wants the european commission to be proactive in the fight against crime and in more specialised areas: the environment, smuggling, training to improve border control in 'critical' infrastructures, as well as the judicial dimension, that is, the specific training of european legal culture and the establishment of the package of procedural rights. but something else has changed, and that is the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which involves this european parliament and the libe commission more than ever in the democratic control of the implementation of this policy, so that we underline the political and legal significance of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as binding, but also the mandate that the libe commission is permanently informed and acts in this field. and that is why we believe that the european commission, when it prepares the new strategy for 2014, should take the commission into account, should engage in dialogue with the commission and make it play an important role in the characterisation of the strategy. and finally, i would point out that the internal security strategy often falls within the competence of the member states and it is therefore important that the european parliament works closely with the national parliaments, as we have been doing regularly every six months. in the libe committee's motion for a resolution we reiterate this idea of establishing joint interparliamentary conferences with the national parliaments in a kind of european parliamentary cycle which includes the annual report on the state of implementation of the internal security strategy at the end of each period.
mr president, mr lópez aguilar has asked a very timely question. i will point out a number of priorities which i consider essential and which the european commission should take into account for the future implementation of the internal security strategy. first of all, i would like to mention the very important role played by the european agencies in achieving our objectives in the area of concern to us, in particular europol. on 27 march the commission presented its legislative proposal, for which i am the rapporteur. having taken into account the opinion expressed, repeatedly, by the vast majority of the political groups in this house and the opinion of the vast majority of the member states, expressed at the justice and home affairs council on 7 june, i reiterate my rejection of the possible merger between europol and cepol. these two agencies are doing excellent work, which they should continue to do, but in an independent way. i therefore urge the commission to submit the proposal for a regulation on the european police college, cepol, as a whole, without delay. i also urge the commission to consider the priorities adopted by the council on 7 june. i would like to emphasize the very important role that spain plays in its operations, since it will participate in all of them, will co-chair two of them and will lead two others, those concerning the fight against arms trafficking and the trafficking of cocaine and heroin. terrorism is still alive in its manifestations, and i support that we pay special attention to radicalisation, to combatants and to lone wolves. finally, mr president, i would like to mention the issue of cybercrime very briefly. the ec3, which is dependent on europol, must be given a budget to enable it to do its job effectively. finally, the commission must take account of the importance of this debate.
mr president, on a day like today, 12 years ago, we all shuddered at the worst terrorist attack in history, which left nearly 3,000 dead and 6,000 wounded in america. i want to pay tribute to them and to all the victims of terrorism, inside and outside europe. we owe a debt to all those who died because they represented the values which we defend here in this parliament, above all freedom. the matter we are discussing here today concerns the european union's internal security strategy, the main objective of which is to protect the lives of citizens. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission's communication on this strategy continues to consider terrorism as one of the priority objectives, focusing on its prevention and working to prevent radicalisation and recruitment. according to europol, the terrorist threat is currently very diverse, ranging from al qaeda to separatist terrorism and many others. i therefore have to express my disagreement with article 12 of this motion for a resolution, which calls for investigations to be carried out only on violent far-right movements in the union. i wonder: what's going on, that there are no violent movements of the extreme left? the sectarianism of some harms all and i would like to remind you that terrorism responds to only one ideology, that of pain, that of fear and that of terror. and to defend ourselves, we must be prepared and united, by improving the information of counter-terrorism professionals, increasing the capacity of citizens to respond, disseminating the testimonies of victims of terrorism and ensuring regular monitoring at european level of convictions for terrorism. it is necessary that in the next internal security strategy 2015-2019 the commission responds to the expectations of citizens, who ask us to be able to live free and safe. it is also my commitment and i am sure that of the whole parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members, and in particular mr lópez aguilar, for holding this valuable discussion on the internal security strategy, with all the insight and concrete suggestions. i can only agree with mr papanikolaou that internal security also requires close cooperation and more solidarity in europe. some of the questions raised in the discussion would probably require a deeper and broader assessment of current practices and incidents nevertheless, i believe this debate has been an important part of the eu’s work in creating, in the words of the stockholm programme, ‘an open and secure europe serving and protecting the citizen’.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the european strategy on health and safety at work by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000073/2013 - b7-0214/2013) (2013/2685 (rsp)). since the member who was to speak first to put the oral question to the commission is not present, the commissioner has the floor.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission attaches great important to health and safety at work in the european union and is fully aware of parliament’s strong interest in this policy area. the eu strategy on health and safety at work from 2007 to 2012 had positive impacts across the eu, as confirmed by the evaluation we published recently. this evaluation confirmed the importance of the european dimension of occupational safety and health policy and of its strategic approach. the strategy was particularly relevant as regards the positive trend in work accident reduction and the improvement in implementation of occupational safety and health legislation. the evidence suggests that the goal of a 25% reduction in the incidence of work accidents would have been achieved in 2012. the strategy has provided all those involved with a coherent framework for action and has proved an important driver in coordinating member states’ efforts towards a common european health and safety policy. in order to gather further insights and contributions from the general public and organisations, and in particular from representatives of member states’ public authorities, social partner organisations, and stakeholders and experts with an interest in the area, we launched a public online consultation on 31 may 2013, simultaneously with the publication of the evaluation report. the consultation ended on 26 august 2013. more than 500 replies were received in this period and the commission is currently analysing them. the commission will decide on the next steps in the light of the results of these replies. it will also take into account other institutional contributions such as parliament’s resolution of 2011 on the mid-term review and the opinions on a new strategy, adopted by the advisory committee on safety and health at work and the senior labour inspectors committee in 2011. the commission opted for such an approach because any strategic framework for health and safety at work needs to be supported by a robust evidence base, in order to clearly identify the eu added value, the challenges and priorities, and the impact on workers and companies. evaluation of the former strategy has required an in-depth analysis of the occupational safety and health situation to assess the strategy’s impact in various areas: the impact on workers and companies, in particular on smes, and in relation to different national contexts. this has permitted the identification of major challenges during the period of the former strategy, which will require a particular focus in the future. simultaneously the commission is carrying out an assessment of overall eu legislation in this field. the public consultation aimed to improve transparency and public participation, which are essential values in the eu policymaking process, shared by all the european institutions.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, thank you very much, commissioner, for being with us at this untimely hour and thank you very much for saying that it is important for you as well as for us the chairman, the coordinators. our committee is very concerned. and let me say, without being unkind, commissioner, that we are very concerned because we very much doubt that the importance you have attached to your words is parallel to the importance the commission attaches to the facts. we are very concerned, firstly, as has already been said, because that strategy, which ended in 2012, is empty of content and we do not know very well why, because, as you have said, all the evaluations are made positively and all the consultations have also been made positively. so what is the delay? and what is the answer to the fact that you have not even, at least for the time being, given us a clear date for when this strategy is to be presented? is it because your colleagues believe that times of crisis, as some in the business community say, are times when companies should not be exhausted by more regulation? because it is precisely in times of crisis that we see the greatest need: accidents, occupational diseases are increasing. yesterday, trade unionists from my country visited this parliament and said that this year there have already been six deaths in agriculture, something that has been historically forgotten in my country, because they were people over 70 who had to go back to work because their pensions were not enough, they had been reduced. in these times of need, when social needs are so greatly increasing, we cannot listen to those sectors, which are unsound, but to people who are asking for their conditions to be improved, especially at a time when stress is increasing and social risks and long working hours are increasing. the second point, mr president, commissioner, is that we are missing many of the pieces that have been promised. we are lacking directives, such as the one on carcinogens and mutagens; we are even lacking the revision of the directive on working time, which is so important for health. i would remind you, commissioner, of article 31 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and i would say that there are many questions, many consultations, but very few answers, and all this leads to very few solutions and to problems that, instead of being solved, are aggravated by large appropriations from the european institutions and by a progressive alienation of european workers, who do not see europe as an ally but sometimes as an enemy of their fundamental rights.
before i give the floor to the commissioner for the last part, i would like to point out a fact which i am interested in having recorded in the minutes of our meeting: we have had eleven interventions, nine of which were by women. i think it is a fact that is not trivial, it is a remarkable fact; and i do not draw conclusions, but i hope that we all draw conclusions. and not only that, but there has also been another member present in the debate throughout, although she has not intervened. there have been two men who have spoken, apart from the commissioner and myself. i think that nine women and only two men have dealt with a subject of the social dimension that we are discussing here, and that is a remarkable fact that should be taken into account, because it is significant.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank everyone who participated in this discussion, particularly ms berès who asked the question about occupational health and safety. i would like to put this in a broader context because it should be clear to all that the crisis has caused enormous damage, not only in terms of the number of jobs in europe but also in terms of working conditions, and we have to step up our efforts to improve working conditions in the eu for all categories of the workforce. in recent years the commission has been in constant dialogue with all stakeholders in the area of occupational health and safety, not least because of the progress that has made on particular issues, like, for example, exposure to electromagnetic fields. i very much welcome the fantastic cross-party support for the cause of occupational safety and health, at least from the political groups that have been represented in today’s discussion in parliament. this is more than welcome, and without this strong cross-party political support we would not have a chance to make progress. mr őry and ms bauer made a very strong point explaining that this is also a single market issue in terms of a level playing field and fair competition in the european single market, and it is thus important to sustain occupational safety and health as a strong eu policy area. however, i would like to highlight two other aspects. one of them is the external dimension. you have probably been informed that recently, on behalf of the eu, i have been participating in a very important dialogue about health and safety at work in emerging economies. recent accidents in bangladesh, for example, and also in china require a strong and coherent response from the more developed regions, in particular the european union, and we have been championing a reply by the international community to these recent, tragic accidents. it is important, however, to emphasise that the eu can preserve its credibility here only if we continue acting in a consistent and robust fashion inside the union, across all the eu member states that participate in the single market. ms costello pointed to a very important aspect, which is the link between health and safety at work and demographic change. europe has a shrinking and ageing workforce and, in order to ensure that this shrinking and ageing workforce also remains competitive and able to contribute to prosperity in the coming decades, we need to invest in health and safety because it will pay off. on issues like musculoskeletal disorders, in particular, i certainly do not need any prompting because i am, so to speak, a stakeholder myself, experiencing the negative effects of such phenomena! i agree that the crisis should not be an excuse. short-termism should not prevail. we have to think long-term and see the long-term merits of these policies. however, the key question when we consider any new strategy, and its particular date or timing, is that of added value. this is a time when member states are making progress on specific issues like, for example, exposure to tobacco smoke at the workplace – where there is a lot of progress at member state level – and we are also witnessing an evolution of good corporate practices, because companies know what ms harkin underlined, that health and safety at work is indeed an investment and not simply an area of expenditure. we also have the task of implementing the legislation which already exists at eu level, where clearly there is some unevenness across member states. so these are very important tasks, concerning the existing legislation and the legacy of the strategies of the last two periods. personally i have no doubt about the importance of future measures in this area. this morning, in this chamber, president barroso highlighted the importance of the europe 2020 strategy in terms of future action by the commission, and that strategy, as you know, has a numerical target for the employment rate: to increase it to 75%. i believe that strong policies on occupational safety and health at eu level, and also within the member states, can contribute to – and indeed be a key part of – the efforts to achieve a 75% employment rate. in fact, the countries which already have an employment rate of 75% or higher have the best practices in health and safety at work. however, mr barroso also pointed to lack of determination as a major downside risk threatening the european union today. his comment applies particularly in this policy area but, with such strong support from the european parliament, perhaps that risk can be overcome.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
mr president, this year's report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2012 is special because it is drawn up after learning that mr diamandouros will leave office in october 2013. i can only thank the european ombudsman for his achievements in his ten years of office, in particular his work to promote a culture of service and good administration in the bodies of the european union, as well as his always excellent collaboration with the committee on petitions of the european parliament. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, my friend mr salavrakos, on his excellent work on this report which he is presenting to us today. and i would like to highlight, mr president, as positive aspects of the european ombudsman's work in 2012: firstly, the fact that 56% of the forms were submitted electronically on the european ombudsman's interactive website, which shows that the ombudsman has been updated to reflect the internet world; secondly, the creation of the interactive guide, which has proved to be a very useful tool in filtering complaints from citizens; thirdly, the publication of a new edition of the european code of good administrative behaviour, which takes account of the principles of european administrative law contained in the case law of the european courts; and fourthly, and if something is particularly important to highlight, it is a fundamental rights issue that the european ombudsman has focused on following the entry into force of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2012, with special attention to the integration of the rights of persons with disabilities into the european union. that said, the small gaps that should be further addressed - as the european ombudsman noted in his report - can be summarised as follows: improving communication with the european citizen and extending collaboration with the european network of ombudsmen, speeding up complaint-investigation procedures and improving transparency in the european union administration. i would like to end by recalling the support that the group of the european people's party will give to this report by mr salavrakos and by thanking mr diamandouros very much for his work.
mr president, madam vice-president, it is always a pleasure to have you here with us in this chamber. mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mrs griesbeck, for the great work that is being done to bring this initiative to fruition. you are all aware of my constant concern, that of my group and that of the reding commissioner for the protection of children and the welfare of minors. the ultimate aim of this initiative is therefore welcomed by all of us. we all want to adopt lasting solutions that cover the main aspects of the lives of unaccompanied minors since their arrival in the european union. the cooperation of the third countries of origin and transit of unaccompanied minors has been requested. the problems of human trafficking and smuggling affecting these minors are addressed. i welcome the proposal that the commission should develop strategic alignments between the member states and submit periodic reports to the council and parliament to follow up this initiative. my country, spain, is one of the most affected by immigration from south america and has for some time had a very good infrastructure for the reception and treatment of all these minors.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, allow me first to thank ms griesbeck for having produced such a clear and focused report on the topic of unaccompanied children. i would also like to thank all those members who contributed to the discussions and provided valuable insight to the draft report. we all know that, every year, thousands of unaccompanied children travel to europe to seek a new life. the majority of these children are fleeing wars, conflicts or difficult living conditions. many of them have lost family members along the way. and this is not a temporary phenomenon; it is a permanent feature of migration towards the european union. i believe that a society is judged by how well it treats the most vulnerable people, and those are children. that is why in 2010 the eu put in place a four-year action plan on unaccompanied minors. earlier this year, thanks to the endeavours of the european parliament, we succeeded in improving the conditions for those children in the asylum process, and the commission fully subscribes to the principle that an unaccompanied minor is, first and foremost, a child and should be considered as such. this principle will be implemented in the eu action plan and will also be followed up after this action plan. in the immediate future, we are considering issuing a handbook for member states and for practitioners, gathering together the various legal provisions affecting children. we will also continue to bring together member states to harmonise policies and practices and to agree on guidelines, where possible, and on the numerous issues identified in the report. work on age assessment and on family tracing is already ongoing at the european asylum support office in valletta. before the end of the year the commission intends to issue a communication on the implementation of the return directive and it will, in this context, pay particular attention to the provisions relating to unaccompanied children.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, for this report. i think that at this moment where i would like to put the accent is on the issue of young creatives. as i said, this report on culture is also a factor of social cohesion and, at the moment, with the high level of youth unemployment we have in the european union, it is perhaps more necessary than ever that culture should also be that avenue of opportunity for creative young people. not a subsidised culture, but the opposite: encouraging them to create their own private, small and medium-sized enterprises, which create opportunities. i would also like to draw attention to what has happened with the agreement with the united states on cultural exceptionalism. i hope that this is no longer an exception, but that there will be a real cultural exchange between the united states and the european union. and finally, i would also like to talk about regional cultural exchange. i think it really contributes to a european culture which respects the cultural differences of all our countries and regions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, you are obliged to make an intervention to restore the truth, because half-truths are liars, and the first statement i want to make is part of a thorough knowledge of the dossier which i am submitting to the house. the first point i want to make is that it is absolutely wrong to rob the european parliament of the possibilities which the treaty of lisbon grants it. we use the delegated acts and we use the implementing acts simply for the six-month provisional period. as far as reciprocity and suspension are concerned, there is always, always, always a delegated act, which is equivalent to the power of parliament, or there is co-decision, which is also equivalent to the decision of parliament. secondly, i did not know, i did not know, that there were judges of the court of justice in this chamber. the court alone decides whether a legislative proposal is lawful or unlawful. this is a political chamber, mr president, and we are dealing with a decision of the highest political level. i therefore ask the members of the house, in the exercise of their sovereign rights as members of parliament, to reject that request and to support amendment no 2.
mr posselt, i am told that the rules of procedure do not provide for oral explanations of vote on points which have been adopted without debate, so explanations of vote must be given in writing. we therefore expect to receive your explanation of vote in writing. thank you for your understanding.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, during its examination by the committee on petitions of the european parliament, i found that a good summary of the ombudsman's activities had been produced. during its preparation, as vice-president of the commission, i have seen the rapporteur's good work in gathering all the necessary information. this report describes the ombudsman's activity during the financial year 2012, giving reliable information on the number of complaints he has received, expressing citizens' views on the functioning of the different institutions of the european union, etc. since the ombudsman's work has been faithfully collected, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. this is an uncontroversial report that was adopted unanimously in committee. it is the usual annual report of the activities of the ombudsman according to rule 205 of parliamentʼs rules of procedure. most of the contributions in terms of amendments were adopted in committee and thus were fully endorsed by the meps present at the vote. nevertheless, a couple of references in the conclusions part on the need for fully independent candidates for the position were defeated by the ppe and s&d. this happened right after the elections for the new eu ombudsman which saw emily oʼreilly elected, but with the previous debate on the suitability of meps in office as candidates for the position still very fresh. on the basis of parliamentʼs resolution of 15 january 2013 based on the berlinguer report with recommendations to the commission on a law of administrative procedure of the european union, this report reiterates the call made to the commission to adopt common binding rules and principles on administrative procedure in the eu’s administration and to present a draft regulation to this end on the legal basis of article 298 tfeu.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it attacks the rights of migrants within the borders of the member states of the european union. from the point of view of respect for the human right of freedom of movement, the spontaneous and immediate suspension of visas for persons with visas constitutes an attack on their freedom without any justification. this report seeks to deepen the 'europe makes stronger' project which the european institutions have been putting into practice in recent years. europe is a territory where multinational companies exploit the rest of the world, and migration is one of the effects of this exploitation. closing borders will not isolate europe from the world's problems. for these reasons i have voted against this report.
in writing. − against. on the one hand, we made very good progress on visa reciprocity. on the other, temporary suspension of the visa waiver will remain in the text. it is linked to migration and asylum seekers and therefore we do not want the suspension as such, and certainly not through an implementing act. if permanent restoration of visas passes through co-decision, then parliament should also be able to block a temporary one.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i believe that the european financial system has committed crimes for which someone must take responsibility. the development of this banking authority is only intended to ensure that the sector continues to expand its speculative activity now covered by this authority which aims to promote good practice and encourage better control of the activity in the future banking union. these are important points, but in the european context the excesses of speculative banking have already been committed. as the volume of activity has been drastically reduced, this authority will only serve to prevent any member state from taking punitive measures against the financial sector. i am against banking union and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. in may, only the amendments representing the agreement with the council were voted, the legislative resolution being held back, pending the ratification process for the ecb regulation in germany (which happened this summer). the greens pushed to keep the final vote off the agenda till the ecb agrees to a meaningful inter-institutional agreement (iia), an approach that was not supported by s&d and epp. however, with the ecb making public comments on the need for increased transparency (in particular, through the publication of supervisory board minutes) the chances are good that the ecb will accept the latest ep proposal on the iia (see briefing on ecb regulation for state of play) in the week before plenary, with some fine-tuning to the text between then and the vote by written procedure. since we do not anticipate that afco (who will have to examine the iia in accordance with rule 127 of the ep rules of procedure) will find problems in the substance, if things go as expected, there will be no grounds for further postponing the vote on the legislative resolution.
in writing. − in favour. very much a result of greens insisting on enhancing the accountability of the ecb supervision arm, the regulation foresees an interinstitutional agreement to flesh out accountability and transparency provisions. the ecb’s attitude in this negotiation was initially rather shocking, and not imbued with much democratic culture, but improved as the ep team stood firm. the iia is currently being finalised by written procedure with a view to conclusion in the plenary week.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. from september 2014, the european central bank will exercise direct control over some 150 large financial institutions, bringing greater transparency and accountability to the system. the european parliament, for its part, will have wide access to the information of the supervisor and will be able to propose investigations in the event of possible errors. in this way, the house will exercise effective democratic control over the new supervisor. this new system will be mandatory for the eurozone countries and open to other states wishing to join. over time, we aim to consolidate a more uniform banking supervisory culture across the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a major improvement, in the field of development policies and international cooperation, in the management of genetic resources and their benefits, both at european and international level. the report proposes to boost the implementation of the nagoya protocol, seeking to guarantee access to genetic resources for all humanity and to strengthen the conservation of biodiversity and traditional practices associated with it. the report also raises the need to promote the implementation of economic, social and cultural rights. in the context of the privatisation of genetic resources by multinationals such as monsanto, this report goes in the opposite direction. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. it is the first european biodiversity instrument in over 20 years and the creation of the natura 2000 network (habitats directive). the report as voted by all my colleagues is a real step forward. it allows for greater benefit-sharing from the use of genetic resources for biodiversity conservation. it offers better traceability along the chain from research use to marketing. it also sets up a mechanism to combat biopiracy by prohibiting all use of illegally acquired genetic resources in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it represents a boost for small-scale electricity and heat generation. this new approach to energy production is a real alternative to our current energy systems, which are dependent on external resources. there are attacks on these energy alternatives, such as the recent energy reform of the popular party in spain. this implies that there is a possibility of generating a transition towards more sustainable energy systems and the multinational energy lobbies need to activate their networks of influence to stop these types of transitions. the technology and economic feasibility are available to develop decentralised, diversified and sustainable energy systems and this resolution seeks to promote them. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. greens submitted a number of amendments on the importance of decentralised energy systems, of cooperatives, and of ‘prosumers’, i.e. consumers being active agents in energy production, as well as the importance of dsos and other ancillary services, innovative financing – such as microcredits – and the standardisation of products used in microgeneration. these are reflected in the final resolution and greens voted in favour at committee level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because, as a group, we consider the end of economic discrimination on grounds of sex to be a fundamental and priority objective. it is intolerable that companies that hire workers continue to use gender differences in order to reduce wages. after years of fighting for political equality for women, capitalism continues to rely on the ideology of patriarchy to get women paid lower wages. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a reduction in the number of women in the workforce. the report calls for no further delay in the implementation of the equality directives in the member states and that is why i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. progress in narrowing the gender pay gap is extremely slow, and in some member states the gap has even widened. despite the significant body of legislation in force for almost 40 years, the actions taken and resources spent, the gender pay gap is still a persistent problem and currently stands at 16.2 % across the eu (the disparity at eu level was 17.7 % in 2006, 17.6 % in 2007, 17.4 % in 2008, 16.9 % in 2009 and 16.4 % in 2010). implementation of the principle of equal pay for the same work and for work of equal value is crucial to achieving gender equality. finally, the negative effects of the gender pay gap on women extend into their retirement age and women receive pensions which are, on average, 39 % lower than those of men.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because any initiative in this area is a real pantomime of political decision-making. in the midst of the storm unleashed by the snowden affair, where it has been demonstrated that both the us government and the uk government, a member state, are proposing this ridiculous resolution. there has been no firm demand to clarify the information published by snowden, nor has there been any political consequence of the spying on millions of european citizens, even by a member state. and in this context, where we see examples of sovereign countries, such as brazil, reacting to this scandal, the european parliament approves this resolution on cybersecurity which does not propose any fundamental change in the violation of the rights of millions of europeans. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. − in favour. growing cyber-challenges, in the form of increasingly sophisticated threats and attacks, constitute a major threat to the security, stability and economic prosperity of the member states as well as of the private sector and the wider community. protection of our society and economy will therefore be a constantly evolving challenge. cyberspace and cyber-safety should be one of the strategic pillars of the security and defence policies of the eu and of each member state. it is crucial to ensure that cyberspace remains open to the free flow of ideas and information and to free expression.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because, although it is a timid attempt, it can provide an impetus for the development of economic activity which may eventually enable employment to be created for young europeans. this digital agenda is intended to provide a boost to the development of information and knowledge technologies, as it is a source of employment that can generate economic activity for job creation. the report proposes to give a boost to this type of initiative by increasing funding under the multiannual financial framework, by digitalising information in public administration to boost demand, by encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector, etc. all these measures are appropriate to stimulate job creation. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the resolution contains calls that not only point out the priorities that are not being properly followed by the commission, but will also help shape the debate on the digital single market package.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, although it includes important aspects relating to the condemnation of the use of chemical weapons, respect for united nations decisions, etc., it does not explicitly exclude the possibility of military intervention. the resolution provides a framework for respecting the decisions of the international community which is essential, given the continuing violations of un decisions by the imperialist powers who seek to delegitimize that body. the un is a political instrument that can enable international negotiation, it is not a perfect instrument, but it is the only thing that separates the international community from barbarism. however, i cannot support a resolution which does not explicitly rule out armed intervention in syria. that is why i voted against.
in writing. − in favour. hundreds of syrian civilians were killed and injured in ghutah in eastern damascus on 21 august 2013. a number of governments, including those of the usa, some eu member states, turkey and other regional actors, have accused the syrian regime of using chemical agents against its own population. these accusations have been dismissed by the al-assad regime and challenged by several of its allies, including russia and iran. a team of un chemical weapons inspectors was able to collect samples and evidence on the ground, but only several days after the alleged chemical attack during which the area was subjected to severe shelling by loyalist troops. the un investigation team is expected to report back to the un security council shortly. the mandate of the un investigation team is to determine the use of chemical weapons and not those responsible. un secretary-general ban ki-moon has repeatedly appealed that any action taken be conducted within the framework of the un charter.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, although i share the disgust and condemnation of the killings carried out by the army, it does not propose a change of attitude towards the military government which currently controls the country. the resolution is intended to blame both the military and the muslim brotherhood, but i do not think it proposes any change in the european union's direction, even by supporting the introduction of reconstruction funds conditional on the neoliberal policies of the imf. these policies were what triggered the tahrir square rebellion and the counteroffensive of the country's conservative forces to maintain the status quo. that is why i could not vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. egypt is a key eu partner in the southern mediterranean. developments in egypt have significant implications in the whole region and beyond. egypt has been engulfed in a tumultuous political transition process since the overthrow of president mubarak in february 2011. on 30 june 2013, millions of president morsi’s opponents massed in cairo and in other egyptian cities calling on him to step down. on 3 july 2013, the head of the armed forces, general abdul fattah al-sisi, led a military coup which deposed the morsi government, suspended the constitution and designated an interim government to oversee the implementation of a roadmap over a nine-month transition period, during which the 2012 constitution would be amended and adopted by referendum, followed by parliamentary and presidential elections.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it promotes the use of military force to control and exploit ocean resources. the report includes proposals such as civil-military cooperation and the use of military forces in international waters; this is a proposal for imperialist policy. in my group's minority opinion on this report we have advocated the demilitarisation of the oceans, the reorientation of military expenditure towards civilian purposes, respect for the framework of the united nations charter and international law, the implementation of a mediterranean sea free of nuclear weapons and the search for peaceful solutions to conflicts. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − against. we opted for many amendments which aimed at deleting the most problematic paragraphs or elements (too militaristic). unfortunately, we were only successful in very few cases. we voted against the report in the final vote.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it reinforces the imperialist logic of the european union. the report focuses on increased cooperation between nato and the european union, equating a political union with a military organization of a military and interventionist character which continually breaks international law. to consider the need for the european union to function as a joint military force and to encourage the development of military installations and infrastructure at a time of aggressive cuts in public services in all the states of the union is to favour the military sector at the expense of the civilian population. i voted against this report because of its militaristic nature.
in writing. − against. some of the issues raised in the report are in line with our analysis and position on csdp structures, capabilities and policies. but there are a number of very problematic proposals in this report such as using the eu budget for defence research, for the defence agency, the satellite centre, the defence college, csdp operations, the battle groups and a variety of csdp related issues. other very problematic proposals are the development of a european drone programme and the questioning of (national) parliamentary involvement regarding military interventions. the huge majority of our amendments have therefore not been adopted at committee level (s+d and alde with ppe on these issues). this is why we voted against the report.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report, even though it represents a step forward in the development of bilateral relations between the european union and belarus. the report contains many policy points of an interventionist nature which seek to impose human rights conditions which are not enforced in the member states of the union themselves. however, i think it is essential to start a dialogue with a neighbour in the european territory who has been virtually ignored in the dialogues with all the other countries in the region. i could not vote in favour of this report because, although i support dialogue between the parties, i do not share the interference advocated by the report.
in writing. − in favour. the eu must encourage wider civil society, including trade unions and business representatives, and the political opposition to be more involved in the dialogue on modernisation. on the basis of the recommendations drawn up by the national platform of the civil society forum, open public consultations on its concept, purpose, strategy and management structure should be organised. the dialogue should be supported through financial assistance and expertise, and the content and expected outcome of the communication campaign enhanced. the eeas should carry out an in-depth evaluation of the euʼs current restrictive measures against belarusian officials and entities to improve, where necessary, their effectiveness and adapt their scope, nature and validity in reacting to developments in the country and in its relations with the eu. belarus must enforce the highest international safety standards and a truly independent environmental impact assessment for the construction and operation of all power plants, optimising expertise and financing from all available international instruments in full compliance with existing international legislation such as the espoo convention and the aarhus convention and following the commitment of 23 june 2011 to undertake comprehensive risk and safety assessments (stress tests), taking into account the specifications agreed by the commission and the european nuclear safety regulators group.
in writing. − in favour. meps today sent a message of solidarity to the eastern partnership countries and called on the eu to do more to support its eastern neighbours. ukraine, moldova and georgia are under serious pressure from russia not to conclude association agreements, including a free trade zone, with the eu. in the face of this, the eu must urgently show solidarity and political commitment to our eastern neighbours by strengthening economic ties and relationships in the region.
in writing. − against. although our amendment asking for the words ‘whereas the internal and external aspects of security are equally importantʼ to be deleted was adopted, most of our other amendments were defeated, so we voted against in the end.
in writing. for in europe, one worker is injured in an accident at work every five seconds. every three and a half minutes, another person dies from work-related causes, which is 168,000 deaths a year. the crisis must not be used as an excuse to neglect the working conditions of europeans. since the delli report was adopted, the commission's silence, which has not renewed this european strategy, is worrying, if not guilty. this political and legal vacuum is very serious: since this year, europe no longer has political coordination on occupational health. mr barroso tells us that health at work is not a priority, and that it is far too expensive. we environmentalists disagree. we are calling for a new european strategy on health and safety at work today, with effect from 1 january 2014. universal coverage for workers against musculoskeletal disorders, the implementation and enforcement of the 2004 framework agreement on work stress, are concrete proposals advocated in my report.
in writing. − in favour. the greens/efa tabled amendments relating to the social dimension of the emu. those were rejected by the s&d and ppe claiming that this fell outside the scope. there is a major absence/silence from the committee on employment on the question of how to properly reshape and reform the macroeconomic dialogue so as to make it more transparent and democratic and the ppe and certain forces in the s&d are unwilling to tackle this. the activities of the green/efa on the european semester have led to a strong call for social partner and civil society involvement throughout parliamentʼs text on the semester.
in writing. for we welcome the adoption of this report which sets out clear lines: no, the isolated foreign minor is not a criminal escaping immigration controls but a child in need of protection. no, the methods of determining age are absolutely unreliable, which is why the benefit of the doubt must always be in favour of the minor. no, detention is not a solution for a child. the union has not equipped itself with the tools to respond to the situation: the european commission's action plan, in addition to being highly adaptable, has failed to engage the member states in a genuine voluntarist, concerted and protective policy. the report, in a pragmatic approach, therefore calls on the european commission to draw up strategic guidelines for the member states, which should be followed by national strategies coordinated by national contact points and evaluated on an annual basis by the commission. the ball is now in their court and we are calling for a real european policy for foreign unaccompanied minors, based on the fundamental rights enshrined in the convention on the rights of the child and the concept of the best interests of the child.
in writing. − the cultural sector is currently in a process of transition to the digital age thanks to the emergence of new technologies that allow a new way of disseminating and consuming cultural goods. this reality is leading to the emergence of new needs and services, which are giving rise to the creation of new economic models. the eu must support this transition with measures that strengthen the cultural sector and promote creativity as an opportunity for economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − in favour. the text draws on the unesco convention for the protection and promotion of diversity of cultural expressions and recognises both the specificity of this sector (related to ‘cultural exceptionʼ for the french rapporteur) and the widespread ignorance of its potential. it is important to link this sector as a whole better to the general aspects of smes (by the way, it could be a good way to include it clearly in our green new deal). it is certainly a good reminder of how culture contributes to regional and local development, urban revitalisation, and social and economic restructuration, and stresses too eu advantages in terms of exports. it touches upon the question of a statute for creators, independent creative workers, enabling better mobility between the different health and social security systems, i.e. a minimum of coherence between the existing systems. it evokes also the question of tax harmonisation, crucial to ccis as a whole.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 2.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, i speak on behalf of mr perello, whose plane was delayed. ladies and gentlemen, the excess of credit currently on the market has caused the price of coal to be so low that there is no incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies. the backloading was a temporary measure to save the ets. the commission must now take structural measures to correct the imbalances in the market and ensure its stability. the measures to be taken must seek links between the european market and other regional systems in order to establish a genuine global carbon market. this must be our objective during the next warsaw cop.
mr president, i will speak along the same lines as mrs mcguinness. i think what needs to be made clear is that what this regulation proposes is to refocus inspection to reduce food risks, and it does so in line with the 2011 efsa scientific report, which already made it clear that the food safety problems in pig carcases are salmonella, yersinia, trichinella and toxoplasmosis. none of these hazards can be identified by the traditional inspection that is done so far by incision and palpation. the only thing that is being done now is to change the inspection method. the current post-mortem system, using these methods, carries a risk of cross-contamination. however, by replacing it with the proposed system, which is also already used for pigs in pig pens and piglets, the risks of this type of contamination will be reduced. finally, as the commission has rightly said, the proposal does not seek to change either the responsibilities of veterinarians or their participation in post-mortem or ante-mortem inspections. i therefore think we should vote against this motion for a resolution.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i admit that i do not know what will happen tomorrow when this report on the fisheries protocol with mauritania is voted on. but what i do know is what should happen anyway: the start of talks to renegotiate an agreement which the european union wants and which can and must be improved. after 15 months of negotiations, the commission initialled a new protocol in july last year, for an initial period of two years, which is being applied provisionally. the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania is undoubtedly the most important for the european union in terms of volume 102 vessels, from twelve member states and in variety of fishery products, as well as in terms of budgetary counterpart. i shall not go into the objectives of the agreement, or even into the reasons which led me to conclude my report by requesting that it be rejected. i summarised that it was a very expensive agreement 70 million euros to be paid by the european union, three of them in the form of sectoral aid, plus 40 million contributed by the sector in the form of licence fees, with conditions and fishing opportunities that we understood were not satisfactory and, therefore, the fleet was not going to work. the result so far has been little use, and the possibility of terminating the agreement on this ground has even been raised. it is no secret to anyone - and of course to me as well - that the economic contribution is essential to help stability in the country, particularly in the fight against islamic terrorism in the sahel region, to combat drug or human trafficking and to curb immigration. all of this clearly indicates that we are facing an agreement of tremendous importance, and not just from the fisheries point of view. but, having said that, we cannot forget that we are dealing with a trade agreement. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fisheries agreement, because in exchange for certain quantities, we are being offered fishing opportunities. and it is in this context that the report we are debating today is being drawn up. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing opportunities for the stocks of certain species are not reduced, and that the fishing opportunities for certain species are not reduced. however, the sector still felt that progress was not enough to make fishing a profitable operation. parliament echoed this general dissatisfaction of the industry, and the committee on fisheries voted against the protocol on 29 may. it was a clear warning about the need to improve the agreement, and that is what we have all been working towards, the commission and parliament. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the fishing fleet is not deprived of its fishing opportunities. the last joint committee meeting took place a few days ago and agreed measures that benefit the shellfish and pelagic categories, but unfortunately nothing on cephalopods. today, this amended agreement - and i say this clearly - is infinitely better than the one originally signed. it is positive in many ways, but it still has a loophole. and that is where i still fail to understand the reasons why they have refused to give the cephalopod sector a single fishing opportunity. firstly, they said that these were over-exploitation issues, and it became clear after the technical reports that this was not true. it was then said that mauritania was reserving this fishery for itself, which is not entirely true either, and finally, the refusal to allow the european fleet even in the experimental campaigns makes it clear, without any doubt, that they do not want cephalopods to be fished there. i am convinced that this situation could have been avoided, but in any case we must respond to unknowns. is this deal better than the last one? i'm not sure. does it offer more and better fishing opportunities? will you allow a part of the fleet that has just given up to go fishing? yes. is that all? i wish i could say yes, but i can't. i am just saying that i do not know what will happen tomorrow, but i do know that it is very important to have a fisheries agreement with mauritania, which is fundamental.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that we have worked together for a long time with parliament to improve the agreement, and the agreement that we now have – as you will see from the text of the protocol – has been improved, as the rapporteur has recognised. this is the outcome of six rounds of negotiations and i think the text as it stands now, as modified, fulfils the three main principles that this house asked the commission to observe: sustainability, value for money and fairness. these are the principles we have been asked for, and these principles are there. i think that this is a good agreement and i have five arguments. let me put them clearly before you. first, important european fleets are already fishing in mauritania. they are already using the agreement. the rapporteur referred to the exception of cephalopods, but as regards other species we have a lot of vessels fishing there already. so for the moment, at this stage we have 63 vessels flagged in seven member states: spain, france, latvia, lithuania, the netherlands, poland and portugal. all these member states have asked for licences and we have our fleet there. and our fleet – this is my first argument – is getting some income from this exercise. so the fleet will gain advantages from our efforts. let me be more concrete about figures. we estimate that the value of fish catches during the first months of application of the protocol will be eur 200 million. it is worth eur 200 million. so what exactly are we saying? we should not have this income for our fishermen? in addition to this we can expect catches from the tuna fleets of around 25 000 tonnes, so you can imagine the income for our fishermen. so let me be clear. do you want to stop all this by your vote? a second argument is that the new protocol offers good value for money, not only for the eu fleet but also for eu taxpayers. why? because we have assessed that every eur 1 invested in fishing activities generates eur 2.5 income for the eu fleet, so this is a good investment. moreover, the overall european financial contribution has been decreased by 8 % compared to the previous protocols. so the european taxpayer is paying less for this agreement and gets more in terms of value. so this is a real improvement over what you asked from us. therefore the protocol offers a good financial balance both for eu taxpayers and for shipowners. the new protocol also ensures environmental sustainability. the eu fleet is only fishing for the surpluses assessed by scientific bodies. fishing zones ensure the protection of the seabed. interaction with the local artisanal fleet has been reduced. so here we have yet another argument for voting for this agreement. and with regard to cephalopods, the mauritanian government would like to keep them for their own fleet. what can we say to these people? what can we say? they have their own government. can we say that we cannot respect this? another point: the new protocol is a major contribution to improving security and fighting terrorism in the sahel region. mauritania depends heavily on the revenue this protocol brings. it represents 15 % of their national revenue. the protocol is a key element for the implementation of the eu cooperation programme, in particular with reference to security-related projects within the sahel strategy and the anti-radicalisation efforts. so this is also important prior to the legislative elections in november. one last point: if we stop now can we have a better protocol? i do not believe that there is really a chance to have something better. let me be completely open with you – it is unrealistic to assume that the eu could get a better deal if we began to negotiate now. in fact, if there was no deal by now the european vessels would have to leave and would most likely be immediately replaced by other players who are there already, such as the chinese and russian fleets. so i think that we have enough arguments and i would like to urge the honourable members to vote for this agreement.
the fisheries relations between the union and mauritania are almost three decades old. this protocol, signed by the commission and subsequently approved by the council, is the most important of the european union's fisheries protocols. it covers nine categories of fisheries and affects 102 vessels from 11 member states. the protocol imposes restrictive economic and technical conditions and has led to the expulsion of the european cephalopod fleet from mauritanian waters, with a major impact on galicia and the canary islands; nevertheless, it has maintained the public financial counterpart and almost tripled the private one. since the signing of the protocol, improvements have been made, but the balance sheet is not satisfactory as it does not correct the enormous imbalances raised. at the first meeting of the joint committee, held in paris in february this year, progress was made in tuna, pelagic and shellfish fisheries and aspects of demersal and crustacean fisheries were discussed. the committee on fisheries voted against. at the second meeting of the joint committee, the under-utilisation of the shrimp and industrial freezer categories was noted and improvements were made to their conditions and to certain technical and control aspects. however, the participation of the european fleet in the experimental campaigns was not included, as had been requested. it is impossible for a pro-european galician to support an agreement which unjustly sacrifices the cephalopod fleet and causes such a traumatic economic and social impact on his land. such opaque, disproportionate and harmful behaviour is unacceptable. the european fleet accounts for only 6% of octopus catches and does not compete with the mauritanian artisanal fleet. despite their expulsion, industrial fleets continue to be depleted, the percentage of bycatch of cephalopods increases, and imports also. those who opt for ratification to avoid greater evils should be aware that they are making a painful decision that does not put fisheries relations with mauritania on a sustainable path. so whatever the outcome, we'll have to work for a different, satisfactory new protocol. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? mr president, for those of you who are not familiar with us, antolín sánchez presedo and i are not only members of the same party, but also close friends, but there is a difference in this debate. he's galician, a beautiful region in northern spain, and i'm andalusian, from southern spain. and this agreement is in the interests of andalusia, the seafood and high-sea fleet and the canning industry of andalusia, who have sent me as their representative here their wish that i should defend this agreement. i would like to ask mr sánchez presedo if he would be willing to include my opinion in the report on behalf of the group, because in the end i did not know whether the group... (the president cut the speaker off)
the answer is 'blue card'. i am very grateful to mr yanez for his intervention. i have said that, as a galician, i consider it unacceptable that the impact of the fisheries agreement should be felt only by the cephalopod fleet of my community, galicia. i think there are people who will vote in favour, especially to avoid greater evils. i think it is a respectable vote, but what i am saying is that this agreement does not put the relations between the european union and mauritania on a sustainable basis and that it would therefore be necessary to re-think the relations. in my view, the first step would be a negative vote, although i do of course recognize mr yanez's position.
mr president, commissioner, since the start of the negotiations on this fisheries protocol there has been no political will, either on the part of the european commission or on the part of the new mauritania game, to reach an agreement that is good for both parties. one of the main victims of this situation is the cephalopod fleet in galicia, which has been without work for 14 months because it was not included in the agreement. the economic and social impact of this exclusion is enormous for the region of o morrazo, which is highly dependent on fishing. meanwhile, mauritania receives a huge economic reward for access to its surplus fisheries. the reality is that europe is paying more for less fishing capacity. europe must negotiate fair and equitable fisheries agreements, based on up-to-date scientific data, without being blackmailed by countries which, in parallel, open their fishing grounds to other fleets such as china, which do not guarantee social rights, security or environmental sustainability. in settlements, all parties have to win. with this protocol, mauritania clearly wins, but my impression is that instead of the european fleet winning too, fleets from third countries win. we cannot therefore support this protocol and i will vote against it, as my predecessor in this office, ana miranda of the bng, would have done.
mr president, i wish to say, along the lines of the chairman of the committee on fisheries and rapporteur for the agreement with mauritania, that i cannot give my approval to this protocol tomorrow. the protocol signed in 2012 is an expensive agreement and, in general, so far, not profitable, as demonstrated by the limited use by the european fleet, at least so far, of the fishing opportunities it offers. a particularly serious defect, as already mentioned, is the exclusion of the cephalopod. we all know that at the recent meeting of the joint committee in nuakchot certain aspects of the fishing conditions for certain fisheries have been improved, but the total exclusion of the european cephalopod fleet remains. this exclusion is very damaging to spain and, in particular, to galicia, my autonomous community. three weeks ago i was in marin, a galician port where many of the shipowners and sailors of that fleet reside. there they expressed their displeasure and their incomprehension at an exclusion which they regard as unjustified: there are no ecological or economic arguments to justify it; serious scientific reports show the abundance of the octopus population which would allow a sustainable exploitation to continue. but that octopus is being fished in mauritian waters by chinese ships and not by european ships. the agreement is not up to par with relations between the european union and mauritania. this exclusion of the cephalopod is unacceptable. and i ask you, commissioner, to look for a solution for this fleet in the agreements you are negotiating with other african countries, and also to ensure that it is not excluded in the next agreement with mauritania. i am finished; as a galician, i must vote against the approval of the agreement tomorrow.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to be brief. this agreement accords with our common principles and the principles that parliament has asked us to implement. there is general agreement on that here. nobody doubts it. what we are discussing now – and there are different opinions – are the benefits that this agreement gives to certain fleet segments. it is good that we are discussing this. but this is a good agreement, a good european agreement. the commission does not negotiate separately for each member state and for each fleet segment. we negotiate on behalf of european taxpayers and the european common interest in order to get a good agreement. and everybody agrees that this is a good agreement, in line with our principles. regarding the results and the impact on certain fleet segments, let me be blunt. we are talking about around 12 spanish vessels – not small-scale, i repeat, not small-scale – which are the only vessels excluded from this agreement because the mauritanian government explicitly says that it cannot, on this occasion, give us any quota for cephalopods. it is not true that we will never fish for cephalopods, but for this year there is no surplus. so we are talking about 10 % of the whole fleet that goes there and about just one region. i am not undermining the importance of the galician fleet. i would like to have them on board and i hope that we will have them on board next year or the year after that. but can we say that this is not a good agreement just because of 12 vessels? this is the real truth. i would like to add something more. even for these vessels – and now i would like to say a few words about the people who really think that they represent the galician fleet – i do not think that not approving this agreement tomorrow means that the situation will be any better for these vessels, these fleets, for galician fleets and cephalopods. why not? because we have now succeeded in having an experimental fisheries programme which is ongoing. if we stop the agreement, we will also stop the experimental programme. so if there were to be any chance for these vessels to go and fish in the next year, they would lose it. so i really cannot understand the argument for rejecting this agreement. even for the vessels you are saying you would like to defend, it will be worse if we vote against this agreement. so i would like you please to reconsider the possibilities. i would like to repeat that this is a good european agreement because it supports sustainability, it is good value for money, it is fair and also it is important for the stabilisation of the region and also for a poor country that needs this income, which represents 10 % to 15 % of its future income.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i regret the commissioner's last statement, because it is deeply unfair. and it's unfair because it's not just a problem of one region. and it's not about whether it's 12, 14 or 28 ships. because you, commissioner, have defended until now, when the agreement was tremendously negative, the same thing that you have defended today. and he said then - and there's the proof, in the committees - that the agreement was good. he said it then that it was terrible and he says it now that it is much better. so i think that at least we should tell the truth, because i think in this case i was not telling the truth. i agree with the arguments of most of those who have spoken today, but not with the conclusion reached. it's true that it's an important agreement. it's true that it's a much better deal than the last one. i said it. and it is true that it is an agreement that has shortcomings. and that's the way it is. many other issues have been discussed. there has been talk of stability in the region, development, security, elections; of course there is. but you are forgetting that this is a fisheries agreement. i am in favour of development aid, but the fisheries agreement must not be the main development issue. it may be accessory, but it's not the main part. and of course it is right to defend the interests of mauritania. each of us defends what is right for us, but the european union can also defend not paying more than it owes for fishing opportunities that are not adequate. saying there was a close vote... when is a committee vote close or not? i think three votes out of six, in any case, is not a close vote. and the vote of a canarian or a galician is worth exactly the same as that of any other european citizen, and here it seems to have been called into question. in relation to a blue card that has been shown, it has not ceased to be a political parody between two members of the same party. i think that is very good, but i would also have liked it if those andalusian authorities and the andalusian fleet had come to me and explained their arguments to me, which they have explained to others and to me, unfortunately, they have not. commissioner, i think that this is indeed partly a good agreement, but it has left out a significant part of the fleet. and what we have to do now - i have said this from the beginning - is to work together tomorrow so that the next agreement is an agreement which we can all say absolutely in this house is a satisfactory agreement. because nobody wants to deprive our fishermen of the income they have now. that, i think, is a great deal of a relativisation and oversimplification. we don't want to deprive them of that income, we want everyone to have access to it.
mr president, one of the fundamental tasks of the european union, in my view, is to combat the scourge of political corruption which is spreading across europe like a corrosive and fatal oil slick. there is a former prime minister in italy who is about to go to prison, or at least has been expelled from the senate; there are other ministers and prime ministers who are threatened by the action of the judiciary, including that of my own country, which has behind it a case of horrible and enormous corruption headed by the treasurer of its own party. but i am not referring to a particular party or person here, but to the need, in order to defend democracy, development, economic growth and the morality of our democracy, to fight corruption as the european union, because, country by country, the corrupt political media dominate the judiciary, dominate the police, dominate the media, and only on a european scale can we effectively fight this scourge that is about to destroy us.
mr president, i would like to welcome the tenneco workers from gijón who are coming to our house to ask us to help them defend their jobs in an automobile company whose plants in gijón and belgium are to be relocated to russia, despite having good economic returns and having received public aid. when will we have european legislation to protect europe's basic industry against relocations? tenneco is another episode in the dismantling of european industry, which is not being supported either by insufficient european budgets or by national budgets which, in the case of my region, asturias, are discriminatory and aggressive. asturias is the region most affected by the budget proposed by the spanish government, which reduces state investment by 31%, which will cause a reduction in regional gdp of 0.5%. i would like to draw the attention of the commission and this parliament to the terrible consequences of this blatant policy of austerity, which has already led to the fact that, according to eurostat data, 24% of the european population is at risk of poverty, 27% in spain. the european commission must take note, and i conclude, mr president, by saying that if we add european austerity to the insensitivity of the conservative governments, the result is the suffocation of our regions.
mr president, the general budgets that the spanish government has presented for 2014 are again marked by austerity and cuts: cuts in education, cuts in health, cuts in all social policies. according to the latest oxfam report, we are talking about 42 percent of spaniards would be on the verge of poverty in 2025 if the policies of the "tijeretazo" continue to be applied. in addition, the development cooperation policy has been cut back to the level of the 1980s. cuts and austerity are the breeding ground for poverty and inequality: unemployment is unbearable, investment is 25 years behind, wages and purchasing power are plummeting, education costs are doubling every year and more than 200 000 young people have been forced to emigrate because of the lack of a future. this is the real result of the pp's "joke" policy; with these budgets, the only ones who will pay and suffer the adjustment will be, once again, the citizens, and not the real causes of the crisis.
mr president, i would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that europe is not only threatened by the far right. we all condemn this radicalism. the radical left and right and many of those who want the secession of the states take advantage of the economic crisis to profit politically from this situation in an immoral way. in spain, the radical left, the friend of the terrorists, and parties which encourage the determined will not to live together and to pit spaniards against each other, denounce with notable hypocrisy the actions of the extreme right, while cowardly silencing acts of physical violence, verbal violence and harassment of democratic parties, such as the popular party in spain. what else is it but anti-democratic violence, insults and harassment of the people of the popular party in spain, who represent their citizens in the institutions as national, regional and local council members? this parliament, which represents the union of the citizens of europe, must also denounce those who, under a so-called anti-fascist campaign, do nothing but practise what they denounce: fascism.
the rapporteur's second question - mr president, i do indeed take the floor on behalf of mrs fraga, who was unable to attend today because of illness. commissioner, the committee on fisheries has decided to draw up a report on the fisheries strategy for the western and central pacific, since there are three different community policies applied in the region - trade policy, development policy and fisheries policy - which require greater coordination and complementarity if a multiplier effect is to be achieved and the beneficial consequences of interventions are to be maximised for both the pacific states and the european union. as regards trade policy, there is an interim economic association agreement with papua new guinea and fiji, the replacement of which is currently being negotiated to cover all the countries in the region. in terms of development policy, the european union is the second largest donor in the area after australia, but only 2% of the european development fund funds are allocated to fisheries, which is a powerful draw, as this is one of the key sectors in the region's economy. as regards fisheries policy, it is important to remember the very high value of the resources of the pacific, the largest producer of highly migratory species, with 80% of the world's tuna catches, of which 52% in 2011 were in the central and western pacific. the economic interest of this raw material and the lack of adequate controls have led to the emergence of a major focus of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, known as iuu fishing, and both vanuatu and fiji are on the list of countries notified by the european union on the basis of this community regulation. although the community fleet in the area is very small, limited to four purse seiners and seven longliners, the region is strategic for the overall future of the tuna fishery, and the european union is a member of the central and western pacific rfmo and has signed a bilateral agreement with kiribati. after the failure of negotiations on new agreements with micronesia and the solomon islands, the european union has changed its policy on access to the exclusive economic zones of other countries, negotiating with the cook islands and tuvalu, something much more consistent since, on the one hand, their waters are adjacent to the international waters where our fleet operates and, on the other, they are closer to the factories in latin america, the destination of much of their catches. fisheries is one of the few sectors of primary interest to these states. the interim association agreement agreed for the first time to abolish the rules of origin for processed and semi-processed products, thus ending the golden rule that only products originating in those countries may be granted tariff advantages. the new negotiations are calling for a total derogation by including fresh and frozen products. the report sets out a short- and long-term strategy. in the short term, the report stresses the positive assessment of the new negotiations with the cook islands and tuvalu, which are more in line with the interests of the community fleet, the need to assist and cooperate with the island states in the conservation and management of fishery resources, and the urgent need to step up action in the fight against iuu fishing, and calls for the urgent implementation of certain basic instruments. in the medium and long term, the commission is asked to consider the possibility of establishing a regional strategy between the european union and the countries of the region, by means of an agreement which will first establish the modalities of access for the european union fleet, as reflected in bilateral cooperation agreements in the fisheries sector with the countries concerned. secondly, to establish a governance regime based on transparency, which ensures the fight against iuu fishing, specifying the instruments that should be applied, including the agreement on port state measures. thirdly, the agreement should be based on the vds (vessel days scheme), provided that measures are taken to ensure transparency and to improve its effectiveness and compliance. fourthly, the negotiations on the agreement should explore ways of channelling european development fund aid more effectively to compensate for the lack of human and technical resources, and of increasing funds for fisheries in line with the importance and the fisheries interests of the region. finally, fifthly, the report stresses that, at a later stage, the approach should be exclusively regional, in the form of a multilateral fisheries cooperation agreement with the countries signatory to the future economic partnership agreement providing for access by the community fleet to the resources in the waters of the countries in the area.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, at this point we must speak clearly among ourselves. no one can prove that this directive will lead to the loss of jobs. no one did. on the contrary, it has been scientifically proven that 700 000 europeans lose their jobs, along with their lives, every year. it is a goal as ambitious, or as unambitious in this case, as ensuring that two and a half million europeans do not lose their jobs every year. and in the face of this unambitious objective, we have had to endure the most indecent, dishonest and insidious lobbying campaign that this parliament has ever seen, with manipulation of arguments, with lies and with the addition of supporters against all kinds. and we must denounce it in this parliament. is it a question of opting for the figure of 140 billion euros and being dazzled by it or protecting health? what kind of parliament are we going to be if we adopt a target below that which the council has already adopted? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. that is the question we must ask ourselves and not look for fallacious arguments, like the ones we have had to hear. health or business. trust in parliament or the lobbies. and that is the dichotomy that this parliament has to resolve. and there are no half-measures or ambiguities, because that is the truth we have to solve. i'm with the warrant and the health. everyone can decide what he wants. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, thank you very much to all those who have spoken. few pieces of legislation have created as much controversy as this text of the tobacco directive. the fact is that trying to protect health from a product which is addictive, which has been scientifically proven to be harmful to health, but which, let us not forget, is legal and has an economic activity behind it which is also legal and moves a lot of jobs, is like trying to square a circle. but the real priority is health. we therefore fully agree with the very visible health warnings about the dangers of smoking; we agree to prohibit misleading presentations that encourage smoking; we agree to end the attractive flavors that mask the true taste of tobacco; we agree to regulate very strictly e-cigarettes, which will be the new incentive to start young people; we agree to fight vigorously against smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco. but additives which are strictly necessary and essential for the manufacture of tobacco products, with all the varieties which are grown and used, must be allowed. not one more additive, not one less, because it's not just sugar. and that is why i ask for support for amendment no 187 by the epp. madam president, everyone is free to attack his health as he wishes, we will not prevent it, but at least he should do so informedly and without facilities.
we're going to try to see that because, in fact, there's no way that there are lobbyists or whatever filming from the gallery. i want to draw attention to whoever is in the stands filming it, because we are not authorized to do so; therefore, if we see someone filming from the stands, he will be expelled immediately. moreover, it is no less true that the conduct of these "lobbyists" has been permanently outside or within the limits of what is legal and, therefore, i am not surprised by any conduct that can identify them as contrary to the norms of democracy established by this house.
mr president, i am sure that all of us here this morning share the aim of this directive, which is to prevent our young people from starting to smoke. in its efforts to achieve this objective, the text presented to us by the european commission completely ignores the very serious socioeconomic impact that these measures would have in terms of job destruction and the reduction of the wealth of the regions concerned. regions such as extremadura in spain, for example, where at least 25% of their final agricultural production depends on tobacco cultivation. the commission has presented us with a text that is unbalanced and lacks a scientific basis. these objectives will not be achieved by excessive regulation but by prevention and education campaigns aimed at our young people. that is at least what the five parliamentary committees responsible have understood in their respective opinions, although the envi committee of this parliament has turned a deaf ear to those opinions. in view of this morning's vote, i would like to...
member of the commission. − mr president, this has indeed been an interesting and, i may add, colourful debate, because of the plethora of arguments which have been put forward, mostly in favour of health, but others in favour of saving jobs. the argument that jobs will be lost has been a recurrent argument put forward by those who oppose the directive. so the question is whether we protect jobs or lives. of course, if we had to make just that choice – to choose between jobs or lives – i think it is obvious that we would choose lives. after all, the right to life is number one in all the charters of fundamental human rights. but i believe that it is possible to protect both lives and jobs. as mrs willmott said, if we succeed in our aims in controlling tobacco, lives will be saved, but jobs will also be saved, because the economic funds which will be released by less expenditure on health care and more savings made by those who quit smoking will be invested in the economy, thus also generating jobs. let us be very careful about the argument relating to jobs. if we start with the argument that by reducing the number of smokers there will automatically be a loss of jobs, that is an argument which can be used not only against this directive, but against any measure of tobacco control. so let us withdraw our education campaigns to prevent consumption, otherwise the number of smokers will decrease and a number of jobs will be lost. or let us abandon our fiscal measures, because by making tobacco products more expensive, fewer people will smoke and there will be a loss of jobs. so let us be very careful about the argument concerning jobs. another argument is that state revenue will be lost. now i am surprised at this argument, because on 21 june the governments, in some display of masochism, decided to approve this directive. here in parliament, we hear this argument about protecting state revenue. well, the governments felt that the loss of fiscal revenue which they are now suffering, because of what they spend on curing and treating smoking-related diseases, far exceeds the revenue which the state gets from tobacco consumption. then there was the nano-state argument, taken to its extreme by mr van der stoep, who suggested that we regulate bible reading, but not smoking. of course my advice to him is to read the bible and not smoke at the same time. if we put forward this nano-state argument in relation to health matters, then we should abolish all the regulations imposing on us the obligation to wear seat belts when driving or for motorcyclists to wear crash helmets because, after all, they have a right to die in traffic accidents if they want to. of course, these regulations are in place first of all because of health – because deaths arising from traffic accidents create emotional disturbance and emotional distress – and also because, after all, it is the state which foots the bill each time there is an accident and we have to treat the injuries which are suffered. mr krahmer then asked me what scientific evidence i had that, with larger health warnings, there would be a reduction in the number of smokers. what scientific evidence is there to prove that with a ban on flavours there would be reduction in smoking? there are scientific studies, which have been commissioned by us, that large pictorial health warnings on the front and back of packs are effective deterrents and that in countries which have introduced such measures, such in canada or brazil – and these are two countries the size of continents – there has been, simultaneously with the introduction of these measures, a fall on the graph. now of course mr krahmer can say that this is just a coincidence and that it just happens that in two different countries – brazil and canada – when they introduced these measures there was a gradual decrease in smoking. but i do not believe in that number of coincidences and i think there is perfect evidence that this directive will be effective. it will be effective because the opposition to it by the tobacco industry has been strong. this is because it is effective. had it not been effective – if it is approved – then why has there been all this opposition to this directive? the opposition to this directive is based on the fact that, if we approve this eu law, in practice, when it comes into force, it will bring about a reduction in tobacco consumption. i would like to conclude by referring to the legal basis, which was raised by mr lehne of the committee on legal affairs. the current directive, the one we have already, which introduces certain restrictions and regulates the internal market tobacco products, is based on article 114, which is the legal basis for the internal market, and it harmonises the presentation of tobacco products. this directive, the one we have already, has already been unsuccessfully challenged before the european court of justice. the european court of justice said yes, the current directive, the one we have already, is in line with article 114 of the treaty. as mr liese said, article 114 states that the commission, in its proposals concerning health and safety, will take as a basis a high level of protection. so this is the article on which this directive which we are proposing, which is building on the current directive, is based. then there was the usual argument of ‘why don’t you prohibit smoking altogether?’ as someone said, probably if smoking had been introduced today, we would have prohibited it altogether. but i find this argument strange, because it sometimes comes from the same people who deem it controversial to have the health warning on the upper part of the cigarette packet, instead of the lower part. of course they want it on the lower part because when you put it on display it will not be seen. if this is controversial, can you imagine if we had to prohibit sweets, if we had to prohibit smoking, if we had to prohibit red meat? politics is the art of the possible, of course. what we are doing is introducing a measure which will reduce the number of smokers, which will save lives. and let us not be flippant about this. this is something serious, of course, along with other measures. i am not saying that only the tobacco directive will help in the reduction of the number of smokers, but it will certainly be a tool in our hands to reach our aim. i hope that parliament will help the commission and council to reach it as well.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i should like to thank members for an interesting and well-argued debate and for the excellent report by linda mcavan. of course i fully agree with what commissioner borg said. we are eagerly awaiting your vote later today. however, listening to the position expressed, i am hopeful that this parliament’s position and the council’s approach in general will be relatively close, particularly on the main points. this gives us encouragement that we can reach an agreement relatively quickly. as i said before, the council is ready to start negotiations with the european parliament as soon as possible. there will certainly be some points where we have a different perspective, but overall we share the same objective: the protection of the health of european union citizens, especially young people and their access to correct information about the consequences of smoking. i will do my utmost to ensure that we reach our shared goal of a text which can enter into force as soon as possible. this is an important piece in a vital strategy to tackle the significant health problems caused by smoking. it will serve the common interest of society, with higher standards of health and well-being. in so doing, it will bring substantial economic benefit. all of this is in our collective interest. i, personally, believe in a europe free of smoking and i thank you very much for this interesting debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by andrea zanoni, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (com (2012) 0628 - c7-0367/2012 - 2012/0297 (cod)) (a7-0277/2013).
on behalf of the ppe group i would like to say something which has not been said here, mr president, and that is the following. as the commissioner says, this is a framework directive for the environment, which has been in force for 25 years, but it is also true that it has been applied in a very asymmetrical and different way in all the countries. the new version of the directive is therefore intended to correct certain aspects and to promote and strengthen the internal market by seeking to introduce minimum uniform criteria which can be applied in all countries. that means that some in this parliament have understood that what had to be done was to throw new amendments that would burden the directive more, when really, if we burden the directive too much, many countries that are implementing it well will find it absolutely inconvenient and impossible to review all the legislation that is already working. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. and that's what we've done. that is precisely why the group of the european people's party has sought to eliminate many additions which represented more bureaucracy rather than the simplification which is intended. the public participation is important, but not at every stage, because in the end we enter a process which lasts for months and years, when the directive itself, at the suggestion of the commission, reduces the time in which the administration has to deliver the reports. that said, i would point out that the ppe group is not in favour of the directive. there are many countries that are refusing, and we are trying to give them the mandate, but only if those guidelines are approved, which for us are key votes, among which are, for example, some details such as the issue of 'accredited experts', which we propose to be 'competent experts', and others such as retroactivity, which we consider to be unfair and unlawful. that said, i understand that our will is to reach an agreement, our will is to move forward, our will is to support and eliminate asymmetries, but also to make the system easier.
i would like to greet briefly the workers of the tenneco company in gijón, who have come out to defend their jobs and to protest against the surprising relocation of the company from gijón, in asturias (spain), to russia. and i also want to greet a group of villagers from argamasilla de alba, with their mayor at the head. argamasilla is a well-known town, as it is the setting for many of the adventures of don quixote of la mancha, the pinnacle of spanish literature.
the debate on the report by andrea zanoni (a7-0277/2013) is resumed.
mr president, simplification and flexibility are fine, but that is not cutting back as some governments in the european union are doing, including spanish. to those who say that comprehensive environmental assessment is an obstacle to productivity or even job creation, we must say that if a project is not sustainable, it will ultimately be more costly in terms of environmental damage, landscape damage and even human lives. in the valencian community you have an example of what happens when a proper environmental assessment is not done - i am referring to the castor project - because the risk of earthquakes from the injection of gas into a storage facility on a sensitive fault has not been properly assessed, and we have a tremendous problem. imagine the proponents of fracking, who also want to apply it there, what would happen if, instead of injecting gas to 240 atmospheres, we injected it to the 700 that fracking allows: what can happen! we need flexibility, but also rigour, rigor and harmonization to protect the environment, without pretending that this does not create jobs or harm the economy, please!
for reasons of time and chaos, we shall be dropping the speeches under the 'catch the eye' procedure. i suggest to the many colleagues who have signed up for this item that they move their speech to the explanation of vote, where they can explain what they want in a much more serene and calm way.
member of the commission. − mr president, i know that time is very tight, so all the very many good inputs and reflections will be taken on to commissioner potočnik, whose team of course has been listening in. so i will just make three very brief comments here. first, on shale gas. i would just like to remind parliament that what we are talking about here is not what regulates shale gas. already in my introduction i made it clear that commissioner potočnik plans, on behalf of the commission, to present a specific initiative on shale gas and the environment within only a few short months, so that will happen and we will have a broader discussion on that. the second point is on the involvement of citizens – of the public – which has been mentioned by many. the commission has proposed significant changes that reinforce the input of european citizens, and the final decision should explain specifically how the comments of the public were actually integrated or otherwise addressed. so i think this is an improvement in terms of the involvement of citizens. that is why the third and final point, as mrs gutiérrez-cortines highlighted, is that the commission is trying, time-wise, to further streamline this whole process. i simply fail to see how people can take that as creating more red tape. it is doing exactly the opposite. it is actually an attempt to have a more time-efficient way of handling this, so that decisions can be taken within a decent time-frame, and at the same time it is proposed that we have this one-stop shop. that is also an advantage that reduces time-consuming bureaucracy. it simplifies things. of course it does not add red tape.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it involves improving relations with ukraine and the conclusion of cooperation agreements, this is in the field of satellite navigation for the improvement of the profits of telecommunications companies. it is necessary to develop projects to improve relations and cooperation with the european union's neighbours across all its borders, but improving this cooperation in a field that is the sole responsibility of the big multinational telecommunications companies gives us an idea of a european union that looks after the interests of companies only and not those of its citizens. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. ukraine is one of the eight countries with significant technological knowhow important in satellite navigation equipment, applications and regional technology, being amongst the world’s leaders in the design and production of launchers and critical global navigation satellite systems (gnss) components. since 2000 ukraine has shown interest in european gnss projects and has developed its own contribution to the regional egnos system test bed, precursor of galileo. since 2010 discussions have been ongoing to extend the egnos coverage to ukrainian territory. the egnos coverage of ukraine will increase the integrity of egnos in eastern poland, romania and bulgaria. on 7 october 2003 the eu-ukraine summit adopted the ukraine – eu joint statement on cooperation in satellite navigation. the council authorised the commission on 8 october 2004 to open negotiations with ukraine for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system. the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between ukraine, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part was signed on 1 december 2005 and was being ratified by member states since. the agreement should now be approved on behalf of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the situation of workers through the application of the european globalisation adjustment funds. the report provides for the provision of eur 1 164 930 for 480 affected workers from different industrial enterprises in lombardy, italy, allowing investment in their training and re-adaptation following an industrial conversion process. it is a fundamental tool for enabling workers in the industrial sector to adapt to the changes affecting the production structure of the european union. the availability of these public funds for training and retraining is a help to industrial workers across europe who are suffering the effects of the crisis. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. on 28 june 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l. due to major structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation. this is the fifth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 164 930 from the egf for italy. it concerns 529 redundancies in anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l., italian ict enterprises, with 480 workers targeted for efg co-funded measures during the reference period from 20 march 2011 to 20 december 2011. the 322 redundancies in jabil cm s.r.l. were calculated in accordance with the first indent of the second paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006). the 207 redundancies in anovo italia s.p.a. were calculated in accordance with the third indent of the second paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the situation of workers through the application of the european globalisation adjustment funds. the report provides for the provision of eur 2 594 672 for 1010 affected workers of tomaso automobili s.p.a. in italy, allowing investment in their training and re-adaptation following an industrial conversion process. it is a tool to enable industrial workers to adapt to the changes affecting the production structure of the european union. the availability of these public funds for training and retraining is a help to industrial workers across europe who are suffering the effects of the crisis. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. in order to mobilise the fund, the commission has submitted to the budget authority a transfer request for a global amount of eur 2 594 672 from the egf reserve (40 02 43) to the egf budget line (04 05 01). this is the sixth proposal for the mobilisation of the fund submitted to the budget authority in 2013. the proposed amount of financial contribution will leave more than 25 % of the maximum annual amount earmarked for the egf available for allocations during the last four months of the year, as required by article 12(6) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the trilogue on the commission’s proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf could take a simplified form, as provided for in article 12(5) of the legal base, unless there is no agreement between parliament and the council. according to an internal agreement, the committee on employment and social affairs should be involved in the process in order to provide constructive support and contribute to the assessment of the applications from the fund.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of the report because, although the subject is of extraordinary importance, it does not deal with it in the depth it requires and does not propose any binding change which would oblige european companies to operate in accordance with the law in third countries. the report, while calling for change in this area in the european union, is based on the premise that the eu is an example for the rest of the world when it is the exact opposite. european multinationals are the 'corruptors' of millions of people in the public and private sectors throughout the world. the report merely proposes a voluntary adherence by these companies to corporate social responsibility which has proven to be completely ineffective. i have therefore been unable to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the eu can only become a credible and influential leader in the fight against corruption if it addresses the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within its own borders in an adequate manner. in this regard, the eu anti-corruption report has to be issued by the commission. the identification by the commission of areas vulnerable to corruption in member states will help step up anti-corruption efforts, facilitate the exchange of best practices, identify eu trends and stimulate peer learning and further compliance with eu and international commitments. the commission has to present eu policy initiatives in the area of anti-corruption, such as an eu action plan against corruption.
in writing. − any form of individual or collective corruption is a violation of the principle of equal rights for all citizens. corruption also threatens the survival of democracy, undermines the credibility of government, and delegitimizes government action if it does nothing to combat it. although the fight against corruption is a matter for the member states, i support this report and i join the call for more transparency and political accountability and the necessary controls in relation to them. it is crucial that the european union, in addition to leading by example, at international level ensure a gradual shift towards transparent and effective good governance policies in its dealings with developing countries. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft agreement on the european union's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is an attempt to impose, in the long term, systems of evaluation of public policies which will operate in the interests of neoliberal policies. an effective evaluation of public policies involving the inclusion of citizens in the process is needed. democratic participation is the only way to develop effective systems of monitoring and evaluation of public policies. the intention of this report to impose a standardised approach to evaluation can only serve to impose the criteria of economic efficiency and the interests of financial institutions on evaluation and therefore on policy-making rather than democratic criteria. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the world, and the european union with it, is experiencing a period of rapid transition and transformation, in particular of power, demographics, climate, urbanisation and technology. the coming years will be characterised by rising complexity and increasing uncertainty, with the multipolarity of a more globalised world, the multi-level nature of governance, and the multiple players interacting in law-making and political activities, all contributing to a new and more challenging global context. this new global context will evolve with a higher than usual level of uncertainty. the tracking of global trends will be a fundamental aspect of europe’s ability to prepare for and respond to coming challenges. it is thus increasingly important for decision-makers to invest in the monitoring, study and analysis of major trends, and to engage in forward policy thinking, as they seek solutions to new complex challenges. most governments in major capitals around the globe have been developing foresight capabilities of some kind, backed by administrative support. however, until the espas initiative, no coordinated approach had so far been taken within the eu institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in protecting employment from the interests of multinationals. this is a small legislative step forward, but it will not mean much more because of the parliamentary activity of the socialist and people's groups, which have succeeded in eliminating the most important points in the report. however, the report introduces fundamental points, such as specifying that the law to be applied to an employment contract between an international company and a worker from an eu member state is that of the member state. this is a major improvement in the use of labour law in this type of employment relationship. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. on 12 december 2012, the recast of the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters was signed. the recast of the regulation introduced a number of major improvements, in particular the abolition of the exequatur procedure, meaning that enforcing a judgment in another member state will in future be a lot easier. however, the scope of the recast procedure did not cover certain aspects of the rules on jurisdiction which apply to employment law, even though many scholars believe that there is a need for adjustments in this area. that is the reason why the committee on legal affairs has decided to issue an own-initiative report on the question of jurisdiction in the field of employment law, with a view to the next amendment of the brussels i regulation. employment law is an area in which the european union only has a relatively minor influence. nevertheless, in view of the freedom of movement for workers and capital in the european union, the union has laid down rules which regulate, in cross-border situations, which member state’s jurisdictions have the right to adjudicate disputes, including in the field of employment law.
in writing. - european law respects the labour law of each member state and therefore the eu exercises only a small influence on this area, considering that this competence is practically exclusive to each state. however, the free movement of workers in europe still requires that certain aspects, particularly in relation to crossborder work situations, be regulated. the aim of private international law is to ensure that the individual rules of each member state are not affected by the imposition of the powers of another state. one of its main objectives is therefore to ensure, as far as possible, that the court with jurisdiction is the court most closely associated with the dispute. it therefore calls for changes to certain aspects of work both at the level of individual recruitment (by abolishing the clause referring to the place of recruitment of the company which benefits the worker if there is no physical place of work) and in the case of collective action. i believe that this report contains important improvements which protect the rights of workers, both collective and individual, respect the national labour law applicable and ensure the legislation and the competition most appropriate to the situation of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the effective implementation of the rights of seafarers. the report complies with the obligations to monitor the implementation of directive 2009/13/ec to ensure the labour rights of seafarers. the report thus covers the responsibility of the member states for the application of labour law in the contracts of seafarers, the right to be represented during complaints on board, the obligation to establish a system of inspections, the development of certifications for ships guaranteeing the control of labour rights, etc. this is a major set of specific measures which increase the obligations of member states to enforce labour laws in maritime work on ships flying their flag. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. flag state control aspects of the maritime labour convention 2006 (mlc) should be enshrined at the level of eu law in a more detailed and specific way. a major advantage of incorporating the mlc into eu law is that it will provide it with a much stronger enforcement regime within the eu, e.g. through eu infringement procedures, which would strengthen compliance even further. eu provisions on flag state control should reflect much more what the mlc specifically and expressly requires in order to avoid different interpretations by member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. to the extent that there is an eu competence, there should be the fullest copy-out approach from the mlc into this directive. title 5 of the mlc concerns compliance and enforcement and its regulation 5.1 is entitled ‘flag state responsibilities’.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it increases the restriction of tobacco products, one of the main public health problems in the european union. rather than being intended to prohibit, this directive aims to prevent young people and to try to reduce consumption in this sector of the population. the directive aims at a 2% reduction in consumption in europe, which at the same time has a limited impact on tobacco producers and workers in europe. however, it is ensured that marketing and advertising elements that may attract new consumers are removed, moving towards a reduction in consumption in the long term and thus positively impacting the public health problems of the continent. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. this is a shameful day for the european parliament, as a centre-right majority, led by the epp group, has done the bidding of the tobacco industry and voted for weaker rules, which are totally at odds with citizens’ interests and public health. it is scandalous that the centre-right in this house seems to be more concerned about the profits of the tobacco industry than the health of eu citizens. the ep’s public health committee voted for robust legislation, with a view to tackling the number one killer in the eu – smoking kills 700 000 europeans every year – but the core proposals have been scaled back in today’s vote. the only real victors from today’s vote are big tobacco firms, whose aggressive and expensive lobbying campaigns have paid off. meps voted to reduce the combined picture and health warnings from 75% of the pack size to 65%, but at least they managed to resist the lobby pressure from big tobacco and kept them at the top edge of the pack. this is important to ensure their visibility and effectiveness, especially on shop shelves.
mr president, i voted in favour of the agreement with mauritania, but i have to say that it is a painful and incomplete agreement, which can be improved and is necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not affected by the current crisis. the commission has never considered the scientific studies submitted by the sector on the state of the fisheries, which, like the spanish oceanographic institute, has acknowledged to be in good condition; nor has it taken into account the damage caused in the canary islands by the displacement of landings to mauritania. this agreement is necessary because the latest amendments to the proposal for the seafood sector have improved the initial proposal and because it is also good for the freezer tuna vessels which are of great importance in my region, the basque country, and which have made use of fishing rights in the previous year. it should therefore be noted that its rejection would cause more damage to the sector than its approval. but having said that, i would ask the commission to continue to work for cephalopods, because otherwise we will be faced with a great drama in the areas mentioned.
in writing. - i'm with you. the agreement, the largest fisheries agreement between the european union and a non-eu country in terms of volume and variety of species, guarantees access to mauritian fishing grounds for the fleets of 12 member states: spain, italy, portugal, greece, france, the united kingdom, malta, the netherlands, germany, poland, lithuania and latvia. the new fisheries protocol covers eight categories: pelagic species, cod and demersal species (those living on the sea floor), seafood (shrimp, prawn, cichlid and crab) and tuna. access to cephalopods (octopus) would be exclusive to the mauritanian fleet, which is particularly harmful to galician and canarian ships. in the previous protocol there were 32 cephalopod vessels, of which 24 were spanish. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound.
in writing. - i voted against and therefore did not give my consent to the ratification of the fisheries protocol with mauritania. when the commission signed the protocol, just as the previous agreement was expiring, we pointed out the need to renegotiate it in order to have up-to-date information on the situation of resources and to improve the technical and economic conditions and to ensure the return of the european cephalopod fleet. the level of utilisation of the protocol since its signature has been low and, although several aspects of it have been improved under the impetus of two joint committees, serious doubts remain about its future utilisation. in addition, despite the launch of an experimental campaign on cephalopods as a result of bilateral cooperation, the european fleet is not expected to participate in it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. i believe that in future all the problems identified must be corrected and that it is necessary to offer alternatives to the inactive fleet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fisheries agreement with mauritania, although i must point out that the spanish ministry of agriculture, food and the environment has issued very contradictory information which has made it very difficult to adopt a position. i hope, in any case, that the just interests of cephalopods will be taken care of in accordance with the provisions which the new protocol allows.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces aspects of the fight against patriarchy into the community acquis. the report introduces the term "genocide" in order to reach an agreement on mass killings that occur because of the sex of the person. the group of the european people's party has tabled amendments which have lowered both the tone and the possible effectiveness of what was originally proposed. however, the report maintains a special focus on the rights to protection of sexual and reproductive health. the report also calls on the european commission to improve its collaboration with international institutions and forums to move towards the elimination of practices based on sex selection in the world. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. gendercide is often found deeply rooted in cultures exhibiting ‘son preference’, which constitute part of long-standing traditions relevant to issues such as property inheritance, the reliance of ageing parents on sons for economic support and security, the continuance of the family name and lineage and a desire to be spared traditionally high dowry costs for daughters in order to avoid financial hardship. sex-selective practices from infanticide – practised for many decades – to modern techniques such as ultrasound tests followed by sex-selective abortions to secure male offspring are causing particularly concern in india, china, north america, africa and latin america, and more recent evidence is emerging from some european countries. gender-biased sex selection can take place before a pregnancy is established, during pregnancy through prenatal sex, detection and selective abortion, or following birth through infanticide or child neglect. gender-biased sex selection practices are both a cause and a consequence of the deeply-rooted gender discrimination against women and girls which lies at the heart of sex selection.
in writing. - there is currently an imbalance between the number of men and women in the world population. it is estimated that some 200 million women are missing as a result of genocide, i.e. the large-scale and deliberate targeted killing of persons of a certain sex, and is therefore considered a crime that seriously infringes human rights. although this problem affects countries where traditionally the birth of a boy has been valued more (china, india, vietnam), it is also a reality in developed countries where abortion is forced if the future baby is a girl. given that genocide upsets the natural balance in a society and its serious long-term consequences (forced marriages, prostitution, rape, sexual slavery, violence and human trafficking), i believe that the guidelines set out in this report are favourable to preventing and guaranteeing human rights.
in writing. - amendment no 2 (after recital p): my vote in favour does not mean that this member is against abortion under the legally prescribed conditions. amendment no 4 (after paragraph 40): this member is obviously in favour of the right to conscientious objection under the terms of the universal declaration of human rights and the charter of fundamental rights, but does not share the disorderly explanatory implications of the amendment.
mr president, i voted in favour of mrs mazzoni's report because we need more flexibility. it is a reality that the economic crisis is affecting the lowest-income citizens and that austerity policies and harsh cuts in public services are widening the gap of inequality. europeans in the weaker countries are hit twice, which leads them to turn away from this model of europe. it is imperative to move forward and recover the objective of a more cohesive and united europe. to achieve this, we must insist on two ideas: firstly, clearly define the scope of action and responsibilities of the different budgetary authorities at sub-national level, that is, compliance with the fixed payment deadlines, because there is a delay, as in castilla-la mancha, where the municipalities are suffocated by non-payment. secondly, we must reject the introduction of macroeconomic conditionality in cohesion policy for 2014-2020. the european union's cohesion policy is an investment: growth and productivity must be restored.
mr president, i voted in favour because austerity and cuts are paralysing the european economy and citizenship. they are not creating jobs or economic or social growth. in addition, the crisis has served to lead, as in the case of the spanish state, to re-centralising policies that move investment away from the local and regional level, the natural space for development, innovation and growth. policies of flexibility, transparency, better governance and accountability are needed. that is why i have supported the need for a federalist tax model that delegates revenue collection and responsibility for spending. and so, given the results obtained, the basque economic concert and the navarre concert can be exportable examples for the whole of european reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it calls attention to the very important problem of reducing public funds at local, provincial or regional level in order to achieve co-financing from the structural funds. while european cohesion policy makes funds available to co-finance development projects in the less-favoured regions of the european union, the austerity policy imposed by the commission obliges member states to cut funding to public entities which have to finance the other part of the projects financed by the structural funds. this austerity policy is only intended to ruin and further undermine the people of southern europe who are already unable to even get european co-financing for their projects. i voted in favour of this report because of the strategic importance of funding for local authorities and because it is a critical voice against austerity policy.
in writing. − in favour. the current crisis puts significant constraints on public finances of the member states. moreover, in the context of the ongoing financial and economic crisis, sub-national (regional and local) authorities are increasingly faced with a challenging conundrum as regards their capacity to secure productive investment. on the one hand, they witness a sharp decrease in their revenues, as central governments cut transfers and ask regional and local governments to contribute towards austerity, while on the other they have to secure increasingly demanding social services, as result of the crisis, putting an extra pressure on their public purses. in this particular context, the ep considers it important to make concrete proposals in order to allow all possible flexibility for the national co-financing of eu development expenditure in a context of rigorous implementation of the stability and growth pact. this will be done by analysing to what extent the current crisis has impacted on the capacity of sub-national authorities to pursue the objectives of growth and jobs contained in the europe 2020 strategy and by suggesting ways to improve the financing capacity of these entities towards productive investments.
in writing. - the economic crisis has led to a decline in productive activity, a worrying rise in unemployment and an accentuation of the structural problems of each country or region, seriously increasing interterritorial social and economic disparities. national governments have been forced to apply more austere budgets and therefore local and regional authorities - whose role is essential in the path towards the europe 2020 targets on jobs, growth and social cohesion - have been faced with less funding at a time of growing need. given these conditions, i think it is appropriate to support the call for the measures of the stability and growth pact to be made more flexible and for the macroeconomic principles and conditions of cohesion policy to be revised, an effective instrument for employment and growth which would only penalize those regions already hit by the crisis.
mr president, this report responds to a historic request from the fisheries committee of this parliament to the european commission in relation to agreements with third countries, in which it has historically called for coherence within the european union between fisheries, trade and development policies, the need for a general strategy with the pacific and a fisheries strategy based on a regional approach. i believe that these policies can help to improve relations between the european union and the pacific, to improve the fight against illegal fishing, to improve legal security for european vessels - which i have to say represent only 2% of the vessels present there, because the rest are mostly asian - and to increase the development of the fishing community in third countries, both in infrastructure and in processing enterprises, because that has to be the european contribution: also the economic and social development of those countries. the european presence is a guarantee of fighting illegal fishing and, as i say, of doing so with greater transparency and greater involvement of the sector and of this parliament.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the report because, although it contains various points which i consider to be positive, both for fishermen and for the pacific countries, it places the negotiations in the fisheries sector within the framework of an association agreement. by including this fisheries agreement in the negotiations for an association agreement with the pacific, the european union is once again demonstrating that it does not look after the interests of the peoples with whom it has relations, but that it makes its negotiations conditional on accepting its economic imperialism and the interests of its multinational companies. an association agreement with the pacific countries can only produce relations of economic dependence, since these are two regions which are profoundly unequal. my group tried to remove the references to the association agreement, but without success, and that is why i did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. this report recommends that a long term-fisheries strategy be established for the western and central pacific area which takes into account the need for eu policies to be coordinated in order to enhance potential synergies, achieve a multiplier effect that maximises the benefits both for the pacific states and for the eu countries, and raise the eu’s profile in that region. the pacific is extremely rich in fish, and is the largest fishing ground for highly migratory species, and in particular tuna, with 80% of the world’s catch. this is especially the case for the western and central pacific, where 49% of such fish were taken in 2010 and 52% in 2011. there are seven regional groups of acp countries, five of which are in africa, one in the caribbean and the other in the pacific. the pacific region consists of 15 island states: the cook islands, east timor, fiji, kiribati, the marshall islands, the federated states of micronesia, nauru, niue, palau, papua new guinea, samoa, the solomon islands, tonga, tuvalu and vanuatu.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it seeks to make progress in improving fisheries relations between member states and third countries with waters in the mediterranean and the black sea, it does so without respecting the sovereignty of other countries. the report covers absolutely necessary points such as the establishment of international maritime zones for the conservation of species in the said seas, harmonization of fishing rules, etc. however, the report presents this negotiation in terms which are absolutely arrogant and intrusive. the report proposes that the remaining mediterranean and black sea countries should adhere to the principles of the cfp and introduces terms on the control and safety of waters by the eu and the member states. i have not voted for this report because of its interventionist nature.
in writing. − in favour. by 2025, urban development in the mediterranean may reach a level of 60 %, with a third of the population concentrated in coastal areas, thus doubling the demand on water and on fishing resources. the mediterranean sea carries 30 % of the world’s maritime traffic. the mediterranean and the black sea have specific characteristics from an oceanographic, fisheries, environmental and socio-economic perspective. the management of maritime and coastal areas is complex and involves various private and public authorities. the mediterranean and black sea basins have a very low water renewal rate (80-90 years and 140 years respectively) and are therefore extremely sensitive to marine pollution. approximately 75 % of the fish stocks of the mediterranean sea are overexploited. legal regimes governing access by vessels to national fisheries vary according to the nationality of the vessel. given the above situation, we should be very concerned over greater competition for fewer stocks and marine resources, leading to the creation of regional tensions and possible disputes between coastal states about maritime areas. increased efforts at regional, national and eu level towards enhancing the regulation of access to resources are needed.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am grateful for this opportunity to contribute and respond to the question from the industry, research and energy committee. i am sure that we all agree that the european research area (era), with its strong links to innovation and education policy, is of fundamental importance to the future development and prosperity of the european union. the notion of a european research area dates back to early 2000, and over the intervening years has been shaped to respond to the changing research environment. both the european council and council have played a key role in giving direction to the range of measures which have been required to put the era in place. back in 2000, the european council recognized the importance of ensuring that europe was able to compete globally, and that a key to this was to develop a knowledge-based society. it underlined the importance of research and development to the generation of economic growth, employment and social cohesion, and it launched the first steps on the path to establishing a european research area. since then, the council has regularly assessed progress and provided guidance on the additional measures needed for the successful completion of the era. in december last year the council adopted conclusions on a reinforced european research area partnership for excellence and growth in which a number of specific points for action were identified. as we all know, at times of austerity it is a challenge to maintain high levels of public investment in r&d. recently we have seen a decline in research as a percentage of overall government spending in some member states. that is why we opted for open national-level competition, which is essential if we are to derive maximum value from public investment in research. we also support member states and the regions in developing smart specialisation strategies to enable them to use structural funds for research and innovation. an era can only work effectively if we can achieve economies of scale through cooperation between member states. one of the best examples is the joint programming process and the cooperation on initiatives to address some of the main challenges we face in our society today. another example is the focus on developing world-class facilities and research infrastructures. these are essential if we are to attract talent and stimulate innovation through science and education. to achieve a fully open labour market for researchers, the council highlighted the need for transparent, open and merit-based recruitment, which would make research careers more attractive. it also stressed the importance of improving human resources policies within research organisations, and promoting innovative doctoral training and cooperation between the academic and business worlds. this has to include improved mobility and the mutual recognition of academic degrees. gender inequality means that the potential of female researchers frequently goes to waste. that is why the council called for the strengthening of both national and eu strategies in order to provide better opportunities for female researchers. the council also recognised the importance of more extensive and more rapid access to scientific publications and data in order to assist researchers and businesses to make better use of the findings of publicly funded research. monitoring all these initiatives is, of course, the key. the council has underlined the importance of tracking progress on achieving the era, and has invited the commission to develop a robust monitoring mechanism. a first progress report was presented by the commission on 20 september this year. close monitoring is essential. it enables us to track progress, and where necessary, identify areas where further work is needed or where new initiatives might be required. we remain fully committed to achieving an effective european research area. it is a vital tool to help us compete globally, to expand our knowledge and expertise, and to help deliver prosperity and progress for our citizens. i know that the parliament fully shares this objective, for which i am very grateful.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank you for giving the commission the opportunity to answer questions on the european research area. the european research area matters because it represents a structural reform and strengthening of a crucial sector of the economy – r&d – that underpins the entire knowledge economy in europe. we have set the goal of 3% r&d investment in the eu by 2020, but we cannot have increased investment without reform to ensure that our science systems spend the money usefully and efficiently. era has been around as a concept – as mrs sartori and the president said – since 2000, but when the european council set the deadline of 2014 for the completion of era, this concentrated our minds and acted as an impulse and impetus for the commission’s communication on era published in july 2012. we redoubled our efforts, identified the reforms and shortcomings that must be tackled and established the broader reinforced partnerships so that we could give era our best shot. the first era progress report, as you heard, was adopted on 20 september in time for the european council meeting this month where innovation is on the agenda. that report comes to some very interesting findings. for example, national research programmes still operate according to different rules, for example on reporting, which makes transnational research cooperation difficult. there are a host of barriers to research and mobility, including very limited accessibility to grants by non-nationals or portability of grants across borders. open, transparent and merit-based recruitment practices are still not broadly implemented for all research positions. for example, only 10% of vacancies are advertised at european level via the euraxess jobs portal. on gender, very disappointingly, only 34% of research performing organisations responding to our survey offer flexible careers and only 18% have recruitment and promotion practices specifically designed to combat the waste of female talent. this report is the first comprehensive analysis of era but it is very much a work in progress. we are pushing the member states to provide the data and information that we lack to carry out a more robust exercise next year. on the basis of this, we will take a long, hard look at what progress has been made and, on that basis, i will make recommendations to my successor on what needs to be done. the bottom line is that era is at a crossroads. we will need to take some very tough decisions next year. as i have said before, all options are on the table and nothing is ruled out. i am obviously very happy that the debate is taking place and will be delighted to answer questions that are raised by the members.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one. however, although european funds play an important role in our science and innovation system, i would like to remind you that 94% of research funding is still in national hands. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. as the progress report on the era shows, progress has certainly been made in structuring the european research area, but not as much as we would like, largely because of the voluntary nature of the measures developed. at the same time, we have good examples - such as the eric regulation - showing how community legislation can overcome the obstacles to the free movement of both knowledge and researchers in europe. commissioner, i believe that if we want to have a strong and dynamic european science and innovation system, the time has come to deepen the construction of the era, also by going through the legislative process, and thus to really overcome the national, legislative and administrative barriers which still hinder the creation of a genuine internal market in knowledge.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me thank all those speakers – because we have had a lot of speakers, it has been a very lively debate – and i think we owe a debt of gratitude to mrs sartori and mr berlinguer for organising the debate. i think generally there has been a great convergence on the objectives of era, and there is a feeling (which i also have myself) of impatience at the lack of progress and a great sense of urgency about what needs to be done. next year, obviously, we are going to have this major reflection that i talked about, so in other words it is crunch time for era next year and – as i said at the beginning and i repeat again – nothing is off the table, everything is on the table. remember that whatever we decide to do, the european parliament is going to be a very important partner with us in going forward. i was asked a number of specific questions. about the eit: this of course is the knowledge triangle so fundamentally important to all we are trying to do. the jrc, giving scientific advice to all of our policy, must be based on the best, most excellent scientific advice that is available and that advice is given right across the commission in all the different directorates-general. i was also asked about synergies with the structural funds. johannes hahn and i have worked really closely to ensure that we have this synergy – and you know, mr van nistelrooij, that for the first time ever in horizon 2020 you can match structural funds with horizon 2020 funds in the same project, for different aspects of it, but in the same project. i think that is a really great step forward. another question was: is it the intention of the commission to standardise european research systems? nothing could be further from the truth. of course we are not in the business of doing this, but we would like them to align their rules so that we can have this great interaction that we want to see happening in a genuine european research area. the difference in salaries and the brain drains occupied the minds of the council of ministers when we met last november in luxembourg. one of the aspects that we worked out at the time was that we would have a specific package of proposals that would help to counteract this innovation divide, this difficulty that particularly newer member states and indeed regions within europe have. so we have this whole package of era chairs, of the teaming, of the twinning actions, of the bonus in salaries of up to eur 8 000 all designed to help combat the brain drain. obviously, we will look at that when we have the interim evaluation to see how well that is working. i believe that it is going to work really well. to the council i would say: obviously we in the commission, but also – as you have heard, mr president – all of the members here, are looking to the council at the end of this month to give us the kind of strong conclusions that will drive us forward. i would say that president grybauskaitė, who has long experience in the commission, will understand the kind of impetus that a strong conclusion from the european council can give both the commission and indeed the european parliament. i am delighted that mrs sartori and mr berlinguer will bring forward an era manifesto which will be, as they describe, a concrete roadmap for era policy and i look forward very much to joining them on 16 october 2013 for the launch of the manifesto.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is a very pleasing to participate in a debate in which i can clearly support nearly everything that was said. i wish to thank all the members for their questions and remarks. i very much welcome the commitment of this parliament to help support the creation of a fully-fledged european research area. lithuania has had research and innovation high on its presidency agenda. together with the commission, we will launch the horizon 2020 programme during the ict 2030 conference in vilnius on 6 to 8 november. i would like to take this opportunity to welcome to this landmark event all those interested. moreover, as the commissioner mentioned, we have been actively preparing for the october european council, which will focus on innovation and ict issues. this will, i am sure, give very clear guidance to our further work in this regard. by way of conclusion to this afternoon’s debate, i should like to refer to the most recent exchange of views between ministers on era, which took place on 27 september. the debate that our ministers held answered many of the questions that were raised during this afternoon’s discussion. the ministerial discussions confirmed our shared commitment to the successful completion of era. many ministers underlined the importance of promoting research and innovation as a driver of the economy and as potential provider of new jobs. specific points raised included: the need for better and increased use of public administration tools to foster innovation, particularly through public procurement procedures; closer and deeper collaboration between industry and universities and higher education institutes; the promotion in national education systems of the development of specialised skills for young people in order to fill the gaps in demand on the labour market; more targeted funding of future-oriented projects while also bearing in mind the need to be able to transform these into commercial solutions; better circulation of data and results of research projects that could have multiplier effects; and, finally, the stepping-up of coordination of national research programmes of course, the completion of era will require the support of all the member states, and also of all the european institutions and other stakeholders. i know that we can count on your support and i wish to put on record the firm commitment of the council to deliver on its promises.
the debate is closed.
the following is the order of business for the debate on the following questions: - the question with request for an oral answer to the council on the convention on preventing and combating violence against women (convention of istanbul): situation and future actions, presented by roberta angelilli, mikael gustafsson, antonyia parvanova, sonia alfano, martina anderson, francesca barracciu, paolo bartolozzi, elena băsescu, regina bastos, sandrine bélier, jean-luc bennahmias, phil bennion, sergio sergio berlato, sergio berlato, mara bizzotto, franco bonanini, jerzy buzek, antonio canfred, maria graça carvalho, michael cashman, maria maria maria maria, maria maria maria maria, maria maria maria maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, maria, jesus, mary, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph, joseph
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, it is truly unusual for us to be having this debate in the european parliament today on a convention dating from 2011 which has not yet been ratified by the majority of the member states of the european union. i have listened carefully to the council, i have listened carefully to the commission and i think that the time for complacent speeches is over, because while we are listening to these speeches, every day thousands of women are having their lives cut short by men who kill them for the simple fact that they are women. we are talking about a violation of human rights, about the need to ratify this convention so that the member states can assume legal responsibilities, which they must apply to combat the greatest social laceration that exists at the moment in the world and in the european union. i also take this opportunity to urge the spanish government to ratify, to expedite all the procedures for ratifying this convention. it is not surprising that a country that was a pioneer in the european union with the implementation of the law against gender violence to date has not yet ratified it. finally, the socialist and democratic group has been calling for some time now and demanding that the commission take all the necessary initiatives to ensure that there is a legislative legal framework in the european union to combat violence against women.
on behalf of the green group, i am facing this debate today shocked after hearing about the death of a 14-year-old girl in tárrega at the hands of an 18-year-old boy. unfortunately, this is not unusual in the european union: in spain, since 2003, more than 600 women have been killed by men because of the fact that, as my colleague iratxe garcía said, they were women. and this is not just something to condemn: it is something to tackle; it is something to end; it is something to eliminate, once and for all, from our realities, in europe and the rest of the world. it is not a problem that can be reduced to a question of age, a question of geography, or even social status. it is a universal problem, it is a universal issue, it is a universal challenge and a universal obligation that must be met. the istanbul convention is therefore one instrument among many others which needs to be led, but it is also necessary to take account of its insufficiency. it is incomprehensible, in any case, that so many countries, including spain, have still not ratified the istanbul convention, and that only two of the european union have taken this step. it is urgently and fundamentally necessary to resolve this question, but it is also very necessary - and i ask commissioner de gucht to convey to commissioner reding our request - that we at european level provide ourselves with the legal framework necessary to be able to combat this scourge with all the instruments at our disposal. if we do not have the basic instruments to be able to combat this issue, it will be very difficult for us to move from rhetoric to action. and that is why it is so important that we ratify the istanbul convention as soon as possible, but also, and above all, that the european union should have the necessary instruments to do what it has to do, which is to put an end to this question once and for all.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank colleagues for this very instructive debate in which a number of practical and political questions have also been put. for example, what is the commission doing to encourage the signing of the convention? in april 2013, for example, the commission organised an exchange on national good practice in spain on combating violence against women, where a council of europe representative promoted the convention. but of course all of you come from a member state, and up to now only two member states have ratified it. maybe it would also make sense that, at a national level, you insist that your national parliaments follow the proper procedures and complete the ratification, because in quite a few cases it is not a question of their being against a convention of the council of europe but simply that it is not a priority on the agenda of national parliaments. i think you should act on this at a national level as well. let me also comment on mrs ronzulli’s remark that there are so few people in this room. this is true, and it is a scandal, but maybe mrs ronzulli should also ask herself where she is when other topics are being discussed. the most important political question that was put was of course whether the commission is going to bring forward a legal instrument aimed at combating violence against women. i have to say that the commission does not intend to adopt any specific criminal legislation on violence against women, as violence against women is not among the so-called ‘euro-crimes’ that are listed in article 83 of the lisbon treaty, and in principle is not a transnational form of crime. i will read out article 83 to you: ‘the european parliament and the council may, by means of directives adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, establish minimum rules concerning the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the areas of particularly serious crime with a cross-border dimension resulting from the nature or impact of such offences or from a special need to combat them on a common basis. ‘these areas of crime are the following: terrorism, trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation of women and children, illicit drug trafficking, illicit arms trafficking, money laundering, corruption, counterfeiting of means of payment, computer crime and organised crime. ‘on the basis of developments in crime the council may adopt a decision identifying other areas of crime that meet the criteria specified in this paragraph. it shall act unanimously after obtaining the consent of the european parliament’. that is the reason why we do not take an initiative in this respect, but the commission will assist member states in the implementation of recent eu legal measures adopted in the areas of civil and criminal justice, for example the victims directive and the european protection order. it will also closely monitor their effective implementation. the commission will also continue to develop targeted and consistent initiatives to support member states in achieving tangible results in eradicating all forms of violence against women, making full use of the eu competences.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss this urgent matter. the legal framework for eu member states joining the convention is quite clear. i do not need to go over it again. instead, i would like to once again highlight the fact that domestic violence does not affect women alone. nor is it a problem that women can solve on their own. the council has underlined the important contribution that men and boys can make in speaking out against gender violence and, as has been rightly pointed out by parliament, the istanbul convention not only applies to women but also offers protection for children, men and the elderly. we must shield all our citizens from domestic violence. domestic violence is a widespread, persistent and elusive problem but we must succeed in our work. the european institutions and our partners at the council of europe stand shoulder to shoulder in the long struggle to make domestic violence a thing of the past. in order to make a specific contribution to this debate, i would like to repeat the council’s call to consider the establishment of a european helpline to assist victims of gender violence by identifying and eliminating remaining obstacles at national level. i can assure parliament of this presidency’s commitment to tackling violence against women. indeed, it features prominently on the trio programme. we call on the support of this house and look forward to continuing to cooperate closely with you.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the eu-china negotiations on a bilateral investment agreement (2013/2674 ((rsp))
mr president, china is the world's largest exporter, the third largest economy and an energy powerhouse. china is therefore a priority and an opportunity for the european union. but there are problems: there are problems like counterfeiting - 54% of counterfeits that enter the european union come through china. in 1979, china recognizes intellectual property rights; in 2010 it enters the wto. he makes legislation, but he doesn't enforce it. that's the problem. and imports of technology can profoundly harm industry, such as photovoltaic panels. it's also the number one emitter of co2. there is social dumping. there are problems of fighting organised crime. in our ports - in the port of valencia, in my community - we detect the massive entry of containers with a lot of forged documents, in other words, money laundering. this agreement can be an opportunity to impose the legislative constraints and also to mark reciprocity. it is essential that this be recognised in this agreement.
mr president, i think it is important to welcome this agreement. the commissioner has said that this agreement will help to increase investment on both sides, investment which we certainly need in europe. it will also help to protect european investment in china, which is undoubtedly capital. it is also an agreement which comes at a very important time for europe, because we are all aware that the internationalisation of our economy will be one of the pillars of economic recovery. i therefore stress the importance of this agreement. our partner, china, is one of the major players in the global economy. the constant economic development of the region is also of great importance. the new shanghai free trade zone has recently come into force, an experiment that will undoubtedly have consequences for the chinese economy. in addition, china has recently decided to join the negotiations of the services agreement known as tisa. so, it's about time. it's time to try and tackle these negotiations. i would also encourage the commissioner, as he has said, to address market access. but, finally, i would like to stress that it is important to solve the wine problem, which is a very important sector for countries like spain.
madam president, given that taiwan is the 18th largest economy in the world, the economic relationship between the union and taiwan is very remarkable and very necessary. their trade relations have increased more than twelvefold in the last few decades, and now, with the possibility of a trade agreement, we could consolidate and, of course, intensify these relations. the economic factors, ladies and gentlemen, together with the high democratic standards, make taiwan a very important strategic partner. i would therefore encourage the commission, mr de gucht, to start negotiations on trade and investment agreements with taiwan. i shall quote a few facts to illustrate my request. taiwan became a full member of the world trade organization in 2002; in 2010, visa liberalisation was approved in this house - i was the rapporteur. in june 2010, taiwan signed the ecfa agreement and the agreement on intellectual property rights with the people's republic of china. it has also concluded 31 bilateral investment agreements with a number of countries, including japan, and has resumed its talks on the framework agreement with the united states. taiwan and singapore, as noted above, concluded their negotiations for an economic cooperation agreement and, without having diplomatic relations with new zealand, taiwan signed its first economic agreement with new zealand. finally, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, taiwan has free trade agreements with panama, el salvador, honduras, guatemala and nicaragua. it is therefore very important that the commission should start negotiations on the trade and investment agreement as soon as possible.
mr president, the resolution on the conflict in syria which is to be voted on in the european parliament is a call for the european union to exercise its responsibility to protect the syrian people and therefore to express not only compassion but solidarity, and to do so by appealing to the responsibility of the member states and of the union as a whole. it is not enough to simply provide economic support to the border countries which are receiving these millions of displaced persons: the european union must make full use of the instruments at its disposal - because we are facing a full review of the common european asylum system - in order to apply article 25 of the visa regulation, which allows the issuing of visas on humanitarian grounds; to implement article 5 of the schengen borders code regulation, which allows temporary admission precisely on humanitarian grounds; to make full use of the resources available in the resettlement programme of the european asylum and migration fund; to use the available resource of permanent residence and not only temporary residence; to ensure that the burden is not only borne at this time by the countries which have experienced the greatest flows - germany and sweden - but by the union as a whole, and that the inadmissible practice is put to an end and the principle of international law, non-refoulement, is countered.
mr president, the numbers of refugees from syria are very high: about two million, mainly in jordan, lebanon, turkey and iraq. these refugees are a sign of the tragedy that the country is experiencing, as are the more than one hundred thousand dead as a result of the war. we must help these refugees - of whom about a million are children, as has been said - and the countries that are hosting them. the european union, as commissioner barnier has said, is the leading international community in aid to those affected by the syrian crisis. i am glad that the commissioner has also told us today that he maintains the union's firm commitment to this issue. but, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to maintaining this aid, we must also help to solve the underlying problem, that is to say, to bring about an end to the war in syria as soon as possible; that would be, in other words, the best way of helping the refugees and the syrian people. we must try to persuade the various international actors and all the forces fighting in syria to seek a political solution to end the conflict; it is urgent that the so-called geneva ii conference be held once and for all - to see if it will finally take place next november. the dynamic of concertation launched by the united states and russia for the destruction of chemical weapons must be used to ensure that progress is also made in the political solution to the war. progress in the destruction of the chemical arsenal must not slow down, but accelerate the end of the conflict. i repeat that this would be the best help for the refugees and also for the countries which are hosting them, which are experiencing a very difficult situation.
madam president, commissioner, europe, our europe, our shared common space, a space of rights and opportunities, such as the revision of this directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. today, the european citizens, mr schwab, whom we represent, are here in this parliament. after four years of intense work, we are providing solutions to the demands and needs of professionals. i congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague mrs vergnaud, on her excellent work, which will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening our common space and consolidating the free movement of professionals. the introduction of the european professional card will facilitate more effective recognition; the modernisation of the minimum training requirements for automatic recognition will increase consumer protection; the introduction of common training principles will promote the automatic recognition of professional qualifications and facilitate mobility. i welcome the commissioner's proposal for dialogue between the professions, but not a step backwards. and finally, let me say that, although the free movement of highly qualified workers is increasing, it is regrettable that some politicians, as in my country, are using demagogy and calling 'professional mobility' the forced exodus of highly qualified young people, whom the government denies, contrary to the data, a present and a future. the rights and opportunities set out in this directive must be strengthened, and we thank mrs vergnaud once again for her good work and commitment.
madam president, commissioner, it is clear that this directive is an important step which will help european professionals to carry out their work in any state of the union. in my view, the directive has a very important weak point. although it is stated that the recognition of a professional qualification requires knowledge of the language of the member state in which the profession is to be practised, in practice only the official language of the state will be taken into account. it is not ensured that in nations and regions where there is also another language other than the official language of the state, such as basque in the basque country, knowledge of it must be demonstrated. a doctor could practice in the basque country, catalonia, galicia, corsica or brittany without knowing the language of those nations, with the communication problem with his patients that this entails. this is not a fair situation and does not comply with the union's basic principles of respecting and preserving the linguistic diversity of europe. as it is written, it may prevent the requirement of language proficiency in basque to practice in the basque country. i therefore ask you to vote against the second part of amendment no 160. (the president cut off the speaker)
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
as you know, there is now a formal sitting with our distinguished guest, the president of senegal. we will interrupt the sitting for a while for the official ceremony so now, instead of voting on the zanoni report which is very long and would create difficulties with the timing, we will vote first on other reports that are shorter and we will vote on the zanoni report after the official ceremony.
mrs lichtenberger, in accordance with the rules of procedure, one speaker may speak in favour of your request and one against.
president of senegal. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by expressing my sincere sympathy for the victims of the lampedusa tragedy and to pay tribute to their memory. (applause) by welcoming me to a solemn session of the european parliament, which is the plural expression of your long-standing democratic tradition, you are doing the senegalese people a great honour. i thank president schulz for his kind invitation and for the warm welcome he has given me and the delegation accompanying me, including members of the majority and the opposition. at the same time, i would like to express our gratitude to you for the valuable contribution your institution has made to strengthening the working capacity of the senegalese national assembly. i am pleased to be with you in this symbolic place of european diversity and harmony, here in strasbourg, the crossroads where the europe of institutions patiently shapes the collective destiny of its peoples. i am addressing you from a country which is a friend of europe and which shares with it the essential values of peace, freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and diversity. we have brought these values together in the last elections, when the european union supported senegal, from the reform of our electoral instruments to the publication of the results, and even to the evaluation of the elections. i would like to welcome the representative of your parliament who was in dakar during these events, who participated and who experienced this smooth change firsthand. on behalf of our shared ideals, i renew my congratulations to the european union on the nobel peace prize which it was very rightly awarded last year. this choice is a symbol of overcoming and reconciliation, because europe, which has known war, has made peace in order to devote itself to the only worthwhile human endeavour, that of economic and social development in peaceful coexistence and stability. the european coal and steel community was created to make war not only unthinkable but also materially impossible, as robert schuman put it. what a long way europe has come from this community of six nations to the union of twenty-eight, which has seen europe build, on the ruins of war, the communal foundations of a better life! it means that your trajectory is also a source of inspiration and hope. when willpower is combined with perseverance, war and underdevelopment are no longer inevitable. inspiration, i said, because after the world and europe's discourse on africa, to paraphrase arnold toynbee, there is an urgent need for africa to produce a discourse on itself. to invent an african discourse about africa is to deconstruct the outdated model based on clichés. post-independence generations, like mine, are warned of the wrongs done to africa in the past. but we are equally determined to move forward, to overcome this handicap, to forge, with our own hands, the instruments of our destiny. in this quest for renewal, i am aware of the challenges to be faced in these times when the temptation to withdraw into oneself is so strong. but if we turn inwards, peoples and civilizations will lose the essence of the solidarity which underlies the complementarity and interdependence which are so characteristic of our modern societies. i think, as history has taught us, the time for solitary destinies is over. at the level of states and peoples, no one can live in the sole logic of self-preservation. the question then arises how, in this dynamic of profound change, europe and africa can together build the foundations of a revitalized partnership that brings stability, opportunity and mutually beneficial prosperity. the answer seems to me to be twofold. first, there is the peculiarity of our common history, a history of tears and sweat, of sorrows and joys, of shadows and light. secondly, africa and europe are linked by geographical proximity. all these links naturally bring us together in a singular dialectic in which the need of europe in africa calls and responds to a need of africa in europe. our destinies are at once intertwined, united and inseparable. when europe is in crisis, africa bears the stigma, and a weakened and impoverished africa is not europe's business either. the painful episode that mali has just experienced, with its repercussions on the sahel and beyond, is a testimony to this. europe and africa cannot leave the sahel at the mercy of terrorism, hostage-taking, drug trafficking and other forms of cross-border crime. together, let us take the full measure of the stakes. without peace and human security, everything becomes fragile and haphazard: democracy, the rule of law, economic and social development; and if there is a need for military intervention to restore peace, it is also paramount, in my view, to support the foundation of stability and democracy in africa, as is the case in senegal, which has never experienced a coup in its history. (applause) i would like to thank i therefore hope that europe and africa will open up a genuine peace and security area in a preventive dynamic for the strengthening of defence, control and border surveillance in the sahel-saharan area. the elysée summit next december and the africa-european union conference in april 2014 will provide us with an opportunity to do so. in building this vast building block of peace and security, africa finds the necessary resources in its rich historical and cultural heritage. like the mandé charter, one of the founding texts of human rights history, promulgated under the reign of the emperor of mali, soundiata keita, in 1236. this text, like the english magna carta, deals with fundamental questions concerning the safeguarding of the physical and moral integrity of man, public freedoms, the rules of peaceful coexistence in society, but also the relationship between man and the environment, one of the major concerns of our civilization. for this reason, the mandate's charter, which is part of unesco's intangible heritage, is recognized as one of the legal instruments that preceded the universal declaration of human rights. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world is going through a profound crisis which is shaking up previously prosperous economies. despite these difficult circumstances, europe remains the leading partner of an africa which is the repository of one third of the world's natural resources, has a vibrant youth and is now positioned as one of the most promising markets for the future. on both sides, we have a historic opportunity to strengthen our relations and to boost trade and investment for more growth, jobs and shared prosperity. in a context of openness and globalisation, we must also bear in mind the competition that opens africa to the rest of the world, and the rest of the world to africa. it is by improving our procedures and methods, by reducing the time taken to design and implement our projects and programmes that our partnership will be able to live up to our ambitions and the requirements of competitiveness. at the same time, let us work together to bring the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements to a successful conclusion. this is not an easy job, my friends. from africa, i can tell you that it raises concerns and questions because it gives the impression of challenging an agreed asymmetrical solidarity. the fear is that these agreements will have a negative impact on our customs revenue and damage our still embryonic industrial fabric. but i believe in the virtue of dialogue between partners in good faith to identify the impact of epas and to define predictable and effective accompanying measures to serve our common interests. the economic community of west african states (ecowas) is preparing for this with an extraordinary summit in dakar in a few days' time. this is an opportunity for me to welcome the remarkable work being done by the acp-eu joint assembly in this regard. i believe in renewed african-european cooperation, with access to energy, modernisation of agriculture, infrastructure development, education, training and youth employment as its main priorities. the promotion of training and employment for young people is not only a matter of social justice, but also and above all of protecting young people from the feeling of abandonment and despair which is the source of extremist tendencies and fuels the networks of illegal immigration, of which the recent tragedy in lampedusa is a tragic illustration. i would also like to talk to you about the high priority we give to energy and infrastructure as factors for growth and integration in africa. and that's the focus of the africa infrastructure development program, pida, which contains 51 priority projects at a total cost of $68 billion over the 2012-2020 period. as chairman of the nepad steering committee, i invite our european partners, who know africa better than anyone, to join us in making this new initiative a reality, because the spirit of nepad is less about aid than about investing in profitable projects for a win-win partnership. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when my fellow citizens put their trust in me last year, they expressed a strong desire for change in the public governance of the country. with my team, i set about the task by implementing a comprehensive programme of good governance and institutional reforms to consolidate our democratic tradition, promote development and lay the foundations for better social justice. it is in this capacity that i have taken the exceptional decision to initiate a constitutional reform to bring back the seven-year term for which i was elected to a five-year term renewable once. (applause) i would like to thank my ambition for senegal is to work towards strengthening our democracy, towards a society that fights impunity, injustice and misgovernance, a society that feeds on our values of solidarity and sharing. and in this march of progress for senegal and africa, there is room for europe and each of its nations represented here, in the name of our common destiny, in the name of our shared values, and by virtue of the bonds of fidelity, of faithful friendship, which unite us. thank you for your kind attention. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the voting is resumed.
mr president, there is an error in the amendment which is, moreover, a very clear error: where it says after it should say before. i mean, the other way around. i have spoken to other political groups and they agree. the result would be:projects for which the request for development consent was introduced before. this is against retroactivity, we are voting against retroactivity, that is to say, we are advocating that projects which are already in the bureaucratic system and have been started do not have to apply the new legislation.
is what you are proposing a technical correction, which the whole house should agree to, or is it an oral amendment?
it's a technical correction. (parliament adopted the technical correction)
in writing. - i voted against this report because i consider that this interinstitutional agreement represents another setback for the imposition of austerity policy in europe. the agreement provides for the introduction of european parliament control of the accounts and activities of the european central bank. the report introduces the rules on the control to which the ecb will be subject, but this is an integrated control within the single supervisory mechanism. the mechanism is a tool designed to remove the sovereignty of the member states in favour of the markets, by requiring that not only monetary operations but also the fiscal policy of the member states must conform to the criteria imposed by the ecb, which are the opinions of international capital. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the interinstitutional agreement under consideration is the result of complex negotiations that ended in early september 2013, enabling parliament to approve the regulation on the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). the european council of 28-29 june 2012 had called for the establishment of a banking union for countries in the euro area, based on three pillars: a single banking supervision system, a european resolution fund (mechanism) to deal with bank failures and a european deposit guarantee scheme. the commission’s proposals on the ssm, which confer on the european central bank the task of supervising the banks of both the eurozone and any member states wishing to participate in the ssm, were adopted on 12 september 2012. the day after these proposals were adopted by the commission, parliament adopted a resolution on proposals for a european banking union (ebu), stressing that ‘any major change in supervision, including shifts to other institutions, must be accompanied by an equivalent increase in transparency and accountability of such institutions vis-à-vis parliament, which must have full questioning rights and full powers in relation to appointment and budgetary procedures’.
in writing. − the european central bank will assume, in accordance with the treaties, banking supervision tasks in the euro area and in the other member states participating in the new single supervisory mechanism. this is the first pillar of banking union, which is essential to break the vicious circle between private and sovereign debt and to strengthen economic and monetary union. the interinstitutional agreement adopted this morning ensures that the transfer of supervisory powers from the member states to the community level is carried out without democratic deficit and under the control of the european parliament. as rapporteur of the s&d group on the new legislative package, i participated in the negotiation of this agreement which ensures transparency, accountability and accountability for the ecb in the exercise of its supervisory tasks. the european parliament will have a decisive role in the appointment of the chair of the supervisory board, will receive information and will be able to conduct investigations on the functioning of the new supervisory authority, among other aspects. it shall ensure the effectiveness of community legislation and the proper performance of its supervisory tasks within the framework of a code of conduct applicable to its staff.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision because i think it is a good proposal for the proper functioning of this type of multilateral delegation of the european parliament. the report sets out the number of components for each of the delegations of this type that exist in the ep to redeploy its members in the light of the latest changes. it also provides for the disappearance of the eu-croatia joint delegation on the occasion of its definitive accession to the union. it is a technical decision which allows parliament to function properly and does not contain any controversial points. that is why i voted in favour of this decision.
in writing. − in favour. no problems with accepting the new proposal of seats.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it delays the adoption of the management plan proposed by the european council and the council of the european union. my opposition to this discharge, as well as that of my group in this parliament, is based on two points: firstly, these institutions make an inefficient use of resources and have been accused of a lack of transparency in their expenditure items and secondly, this procedure for the approval of extraordinary management violates the principles of democratic control of the budget of the european institutions. in addition, the council does not answer the questions of the committee responsible by rejecting the legitimacy and scope of democratic control of european accounts. it is to curb the council's intention to operate independently of the control of the other institutions of the union that i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. in the annual report concerning the financial year 2011, the court of auditors included observations on the european council and the council concerning procurement procedures relating to cleaning services and the purchase of service clothing and shoes, in which certain weaknesses in the application of selection and award criteria were identified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the zanoni report on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment. there are no economic excuses for not carrying out an adequate environmental risk assessment of certain practices that have been shown to be potentially dangerous. we are talking about sustainable development, human security and the safeguarding of the environment. we cannot avoid this by justifying the increase in the cost of production. this report directly concerns my region, cantabria, where there is a growing interest in extracting shale gas by fracking. the evidence that it is a dangerous technique in the form of earthquakes and polluted water, and the absence of a safe technology support my stance against this technique. today we are asking in this report that before any extraction is carried out, it should be ensured that any drilling in the area does not also pose any risks to the environment or to the inhabitants. the moratorium decided by the regional government is not enough: it has to be the central government that considers the decisions we are taking from the eu.
in writing. - i think that the renewal and strengthening of the environmental impact directive is very important. it is important, among other things, because of the pressure that energy lobbies are exerting to push for the exploitation of shale gas by hydraulic fracturing, which will now have to overcome stricter environmental requirements. i voted in favour for that reason, among others.
in writing. - i'm with you. today's vote is very important because it will allow us to better predict and assess the impact of activities and projects that affect our environment before they are implemented. avoiding, reducing or offsetting negative impacts on climate, environment, biodiversity and health is no longer an option but an obligation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. we hope that the spanish state will transpose this directive as a matter of urgency and apply it retroactively, exceptionally, to projects which have proved to be environmental failures, such as the castor project. despite pressure from the oil industry lobbies and some member states, exploration and exploitation of shale gas will be subject to this regulation. the european parliament is committed to transparency and public participation with this vote. this is a major breakthrough that confirms that fracking should be banned in europe. the icv and the greens continue to stand with the anti-fracking social movements in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a revision of directive 94/25/ec setting stricter limits for nox and hydrocarbon emissions from the construction of new recreational craft. this restriction follows an environmental impact report by the european commission on motor vessels which highlights the need to reduce emissions and noise levels from such vessels. the report, however, defends a measure which should be criticised because it accepts an extension of almost six years for the industry to adapt, and does not include limits on the noise level of the vessels in question. it is a proposal which does not address the environmental impacts which the commission had pointed out, but i have voted in favour of it by imposing stricter limits on pollution from such vessels.
in writing. − in favour. this is an update of the recreational craft directive 94/25/ec (and subsequent amending directive 2003/44/ec) to set pollutant (nox, hydrocarbons, particulate matter and noise) limits for new recreational crafts (boats) placed on the eu market, in line with technological development, international standards and the new legislative framework. com also proposed to enlarge the scope to include personal watercraft (powered surfboards etc). nlf means inclusion of provisions describing inclusion of economic operators, competencies of conformity assessment bodies and market surveillance authorities, new conformity assessment modules and ce marking.
mr president, i abstained on this initiative, which is good for professional mobility at the expense of bilingual linguistic communities such as the basque country. the host state of a professional shall check whether he or she knows the language provided that it is an official language in europe. official national languages such as basque and others are automatically excluded. if, as the commissioner has said, all people and all territories are necessary for growth and competitiveness, what should we think if we do not see ourselves recognized and respected in it? what will commissioner vassiliou think? the problem is that negotiations are always with the member states alone, which, as in the case of spain, are an obstacle to the real recognition of linguistic rights. it is also inconsistent with the decision of this parliament, which recently approved the alfonsi report on the protection of minority languages. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - it is clear that this directive is an important step which will help european professionals to carry out their work in any state of the union. in my view, the directive has a very important weak point. although it is stated that the recognition of a professional qualification requires knowledge of the language of the member state in which the profession is to be practised, in practice only the official language of the state will be taken into account. in countries and regions where there is another language other than the official language of the state, such as basque in the basque country, there is no requirement to prove knowledge of it. a doctor could practice in the basque country, catalonia, galicia, corsica or brittany without knowing the language of those nations, with the communication problem with his patients that this entails. that is not fair, and it is not in keeping with the union's basic principles of respecting and preserving the linguistic and cultural diversity of europe. as it is written, it may prevent the request for language proficiency in basque to practice in the basque country. as the second part of amendment no 160 has been passed, i decided that i could not vote in favour and i abstained.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it improves the recognition of professional qualifications between member states, it does so with the intention of improving flexibility and adapting them to the interests of the common market. the report goes into detail on the technical aspects of administrative cooperation between member states through the electronic information system for the internal market (imi), the introduction of a professional card for the recognition of professional qualifications at european level. the report makes a controversial point about the recognition of nurses across the continent. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − abstention. despite a rather good text, the fact (again) of enforcing that each member state will have only one official language considered is something we cannot accept. in many states there are several languages that need to be taken into account. for that reason, i abstained.
in writing. − labour mobility is one of the great benefits of the eu and in order to promote the free movement of professionals, the creation of a european professional card has been deemed necessary. the main purpose of this card is to facilitate the recognition of professional qualifications in cases where a professional establishes himself in another member state for the purpose of carrying out his activity. the directive also provides for a partial restriction of access to another member state, by means of 'fitness tests', but only in order to ensure that professionals who move are qualified in their country of origin in order to be able to practise in another member state. i believe it is important to provide those professionals who wish to pursue their activity in another member state with all the means necessary to access that activity on equal terms; this directive will effectively regulate this process by recognising the professional competence of every eu citizen on an equal footing.
in writing. − i voted against the second part of amendment 160 because the current text excludes catalan as one of the languages that workers may know in order to satisfy the recognition requirements. the fact that the only languages included are those that are official at eu level undermines the position of the catalan language in the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it implies the recognition of the human right to freedom of movement. visa policy is often used as a tool to restrict the exercise of this right by states. our position on the rights of migrants is that of full respect for their right to cross any border and any administrative limitation is in itself an attack on them. the development of such an agreement on visa facilitation with armenia is aimed at improving the rights of migrants and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the proposals seek to conclude two agreements with the republic of armenia. the first agreement concerns facilitation of travel. not yet visa-free, the agreement sets out simplified conditions for the issue of multiple-entry visas. the new rules will make the procedures quicker (the decision will have to be taken within 10 days, in urgent cases two days or less), cheaper (the visa fee for processing applications of armenian citizens shall amount to eur 35) and less bureaucratic (the documents to be presented regarding the purpose of the journey have been simplified for some categories of persons, in particular for close relatives, members of official delegations, students, teachers, business people, scientists, etc. and there are also simplified criteria for issuing multiple-entry visas). the armenian government already abolished the visa obligation for eu citizens, with effect from 10 january 2013. we approve the visa facilitation agreement. our amendment to postpone the entry into force of that agreement until a similar agreement with azerbaijan enters into force has been declared inadmissible.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the legal status of 'illegal resident' represents a denial by states of their responsibility as guarantors of the human rights of all human beings, regardless of the state from which they come. my rejection of the figure of 'illegal resident' is also because it is a tool for the administration to point out a group of people such as migrants. the administration points out that far-right groups are carrying out violent acts against them, inciting racial hatred as a way to solve the crisis. the administrations share responsibility for such acts, and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − against. the second agreement concerns readmission. the readmission obligation covers both own nationals and third-country nationals and stateless persons (if they have a visa, residence permit or have stayed on the territory of another party). the readmission obligation with regard to own nationals also covers family members (i.e. spouses and minor unmarried children). we approved the visa facilitation agreement. our amendment to postpone the entry into force of that agreement until a similar agreement with azerbaijan enters into force has been declared inadmissible. as regards the readmission agreement, we have serious concerns. on one hand, in accordance with article 72(1) of the partnership and cooperation agreement with armenia, there is a general obligation of readmission of nationals. on the other, the present agreement also covers third-country nationals and stateless persons. armenia has a number of ethnic armenian refugees from azerbaijan, whose situation is not properly resolved. besides, we are against linking visa facilitation with readmission as such. thus, we reject the readmission agreement.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a step backwards in the improvement of consumer information systems in the field of food properties. food information systems are essential to ensure that consumers are able to make well-informed choices. this report seeks to reject the proposal for a council regulation establishing a list of permitted claims on the properties of food other than those relating to the reduction of disease risk and to the development of children. this regulation aims to improve the information available to consumers on the beneficial effects of food. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − against. this text opposes adoption of the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) 432/2012 establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children’s development and health and considers that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the aim and content of the basic act.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it rejects the commission proposal for a regulation on products of animal origin. the commission proposal in this area does not take into account the difficulty that slaughterhouses with a high volume of activity cannot monitor precisely each animal slaughtered. there are many risks for consumers in products of animal origin, and in slaughterhouses with more than 500 animals slaughtered per day it is difficult not only to detect health risks for consumers, but also to verify animal welfare, or any animal health problems that may reduce their market value. this proposal must be rejected in order to develop stricter legislation. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. it opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending annexes to regulations (ec) no 853/2004, (ec) no 854/2004 of the european parliament and of the council and regulation (ec) no 2074/2005, considers that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the aim and content of the basic act, and considers that measures proposed in the draft commission regulation should, in the first place, be considered in the context of the above-mentioned commission proposal on official controls, of 6 may 2013, before any specific measures on reducing control tasks of official veterinarians are taken.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it presents positive aspects of the necessary economic cooperation with china, it only deals with compliance with international trade and investment agreements. the report makes no reference to political cooperation between the two powers, a debate which should be present in the negotiations without being intrusive. the report also introduces the obligation to comply with the general agreement on trade in services, the protection of intellectual rights, accepts the decisions of the international centre for settlement of investment disputes (icsid) to resolve investment problems. the report accepts the tools of neoliberalism for negotiations with china. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − against. we have tabled a green alternative resolution: this is the first negotiation on an eu-china contractual relationship in trade and investment matters, which will receive quite a lot of attention. moreover, on such controversial issues as isds, where the outcome in inta is likely to be replicated in plenary, several meps from other groups (s&d, gue and alde) should have had redlines and thus support our broader line. we have also retabled our most important inta am to the main resolution with rcv attached to them in order to put pressure on such key issues as isds, hr impact assessment, consistency with the eu’s external action objectives or the preservation of policy space and capability of the parties to legislate.
in writing. − china is one of the world's leading investment markets and in the eu 26 of the 28 member states currently have bilateral investment agreements in force with china. the eu stresses the importance of greater economic, social and environmental engagement between the two in order to boost both economies by creating synergies that would promote competitiveness and ensure greater transparency. the common objective of both is sustainable growth and job creation and to this end the eu sees the need to strengthen cooperation and dialogue, which are indispensable to improve investment relations. the eu has expressed the urgency of a change in china's attitude to minimally guarantee these rights. this report sets out the guidelines to be followed in order to promote and protect investors and i believe that if china succeeds in making its economic and social policies more flexible and bringing them closer to the european regulatory framework, it will be possible to encourage smes to have greater access to external markets in the future, thus boosting their internationalisation.
in writing. − even though i understand that some sectors are more vulnerable than others, when it comes to starting a negotiation between two parties it is important that we keep everything on the table. this is why i have voted in favour of amendment 26 to the text. the overall package is clearly in the interest of the majority of stakeholders and we cannot lose this window of opportunity for setting up the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a firm commitment to neoliberal institutions and at the same time it may lead to diplomatic problems with the people's republic of china. the report is a political assessment of the relationship between the two countries, and this assessment is strongly interventionist in nature, since it considers the european model of representative democracy, which is currently in crisis, to be the only one acceptable in the rest of the world. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the new technologies. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − against. the majority in inta was in favour of ‘urging the commission to start talks for eu-taiwan investment agreements’. moreover, such over-simplistic considerations as the fact that ‘any decision to start negotiations should be based on economic reasons and should not be interlinked with the evaluation of bilateral relations between the eu and the people’s republic of china’ also went through. our position was that we did not share the sense of urgency in asking the commission to launch negotiations, not only for the reasons outlined in the background, but also because the eu and taiwan are already well integrated economically, tariffs are already generally at low levels on both sides and the eu is already taiwan’s main investment partner. moreover, the parties already have a well institutionalised dialogue on trade and investment issues aimed at tackling bilateral irritants. given the overstretched staff resources of dg trade (and inta and the ep have already acknowledged this issue many times), such a push on the commission would be in contradiction with the request to focus on real priorities. moreover, we, as greens, are generally critical of a systematic recourse to bilateral negotiations.
in writing. − i support this motion for eu-taiwan trade relations because this is a win-win situation for both economies and access to this market has true potential for our companies. i also hope that this is a step forward to sharing european values such as democracy, the respect for human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it involves a worsening of the working conditions of pilots which may lead to an increase in the risk for passengers. this report clearly implies the introduction of the will of the airline lobbies into the policy proposed by the european commission. there is no scientific argument to ensure that the working hours imposed by this report are safe, and on the contrary, there is a very large number of arguments that claim an increase in risks. pilots take a major responsibility for the lives of passengers and airlines have managed to reduce their labour costs at the expense of safety. this increase in risks for passengers is intolerable and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. for the european commission has played a particularly dangerous and odious game in this matter. the commission has been very active in the field of research and development, and has been very active in the field of research and development, and has been very active in the field of research and development. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. the question whether or not its regulation will represent an improvement on the european and national rules currently in force was, however, pointless, since it ignores some of the most pressing recommendations of the available scientific studies, including the one commissioned by easa in the preparation of this regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must take responsibility for the destabilisation of the country and the civil war that has engendered. so far the neighbouring countries are bearing the brunt of the refugee population, but the union must act to ensure that the flow of refugees leaving the country is helped by the situation of violence directly or indirectly instigated by some member states. it is a balanced report which is only intended to help the hundreds of thousands of refugees who are being produced by the conflict. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. among other things, the member states should be encouraged to make use of the funds that will be available under the asylum and migration fund and of the funds available under the preparatory action to enable the resettlement of refugees during emergency situations, which covers, among other things, the following measures: supporting persons already recognised as refugees by the unhcr, supporting emergency action in the case of groups of refugees identified as prioritary, who are under armed attack and facing situations of extreme vulnerability and of a life-threatening nature, and providing, where needed, extra financial support during emergencies to the unhcr and to its liaison organisations in the member states and at eu level.
in writing. - the dramatic situation in syria calls for eu intervention both in the field of human rights and in the international control of chemical weapons. the conflict has led to nearly two million people being displaced to neighbouring countries, 76% of whom are women and children. the eu must ensure international protection of the rights of refugees and show solidarity with the syrian people who have been forced to flee their country because of the current conflict. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i believe that this report highlights the need for cooperation between member states in coordinating the asylum claims of syrian refugees in order to protect and guarantee human rights during the war situation in syria.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote.
madam president, i do believe that this debate is necessary, because what began as a financial and economic crisis, which has had a terrible social impact, has ended up as a political and moral crisis without precedent in the european union. and this political and moral crisis is the result of an increase in inequalities, injustices and hopelessness, which is the breeding ground for the increase in racism, populism, xenophobia and, in short, anti-european attitudes. and the murder of a leftist militant in greece by golden dawn militants is an expression of that problem, but not the only one. the far right is growing all over europe, across the board, including my country. and it is making itself present in successive electoral processes. it is a threat that will become more and more present in this european parliament unless those of us who are in favour of defending a europe identified with values, with pluralism, with the integration of diversity, with respect for the other and with tolerance do what is necessary. and not just in politics, but also in fighting injustice, unemployment and inequality. and the time to do it is now, because to put it off until tomorrow or the day after tomorrow will be too late. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. madam president, fortunately the system in greece remains the rule of law and therefore those who have to answer criminally for the murder of a leftist militant must do so. and of course we support the strong action of the greek government which has arrested the golden dawn leadership, who must be held accountable for the incitement of hate speech. but it is up to the whole of europe to live up to its values, and i believe that the european parliament itself has a mission to fulfil when it comes to filling in that space of criminal legislation which must criminalize hate speech and incitement to violence throughout europe.
madam president, the rise of violent extremism is not only a greek question. in spain the threat of fascist groups against democratic and peaceful movements is also growing. on 11 september this year these groups attacked the catalan delegation in madrid, injuring one mp and some representatives of european and international diplomacy. the radicals even used tear gas against the people, but the sanction imposed by the spanish courts has been only a eur 300 fine. this violent aggression happened the same day that about 2 million people held hands, forming a 400 kilometre human chain in catalonia, asking peacefully for the right to vote on an independence referendum, as the scottish will. last week the leader of a legal party which harks back to franco stated on spanish tv that no part of spain would separate without blood being spilt. he has not yet been detained by the police, and the spanish government has not made any statement on this issue. i sent links to these videos to all members of this house last week. there should be sanctions against statements like these in europe. the quality of european democracy and the freedom of its citizens is at stake. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue card question. what is it? madam president, first of all, condemn and reject those acts that mr tremosa mentioned. but, mr. tremosa, don't you think that the ends meet, come they from where? i say this because the x-rays you have taken must be completed, and what has happened in our country in these very weeks is that there is a bomb by the extreme left in the basilica of pilar in zaragoza, a bomb by the extreme left in a town hall in the autonomous community of galicia, burning of spanish flags and portraits of his majesty king juan carlos by the extreme left and radical nationalists in his community in catalonia, and something i know well: insults, threats and attacks against members of the popular party and its headquarters in the basque country by the acolytes of the eta terrorists, that is, the extreme left. i would also like to see the autonomous community of catalonia arresting those people who did these things and who, as you know, were arrested in madrid and not in catalonia.
the answer is 'blue card'. dear colleague iturgaiz, bill clinton came to barcelona five years ago and said a very nice phrase: the world will be taliban or catalan. the peaceful spirit has always characterized catalonia, and the incidents you have mentioned are the work of a very small minority, because political catalanism has always been peaceful and has always been democratic. in any case, ask yourself, as camilo josé cela said, why a majority of catalans today think they can do better with an independent state outside spain, because camilo josé cela wrote many years ago: "in the question of separatism, there have always been more separatists than separatists".
madam president, the victims of the franco dictatorship have been deprived of justice, reparation and memory. today, those who are nostalgic for that regime have political parties, foundations and the consequent degree of institutional support. and this contrasts with the justified zeal with which other manifestations of fascism in spain, such as the violence of eta, have been fought. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. that is why the announcement on television by a person with a name and two surnames of the creation of a terrorist organisation to murder independentist citizens, attacks of all kinds and acts of exaltation of this criminal dictatorship are proliferating in spain without a consistent reaction from its authorities. we have already asked the european commission several questions about this phenomenon. neo-nazism is not the only problem of xenophobic intolerance and radicalism in europe. i therefore formally ask the community authorities to be more involved in combating these expressions of intolerance and fascism; the spanish authorities need a european wake-up call to react against this outbreak of francoist far-rightism.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, let me start with a quote from robert schuman when he opened his declaration on 9 may 1950. he said world peace would not be preserved without creative efforts proportionate to the dangers threatening it. the dangers in europe are there. intolerance and discrimination, whatever their shape and form, are dangerous and must not be left ignored. they must not be left unchallenged, because they are incompatible with our democratic values and they destroy our societies. i have heard a lot of contributions in this house. i have heard speeches about young people who have lost their lives. it is true that a young musician was killed in the street in greece, but it is also true that three bank employees were burned in their office. it is also true that in other member states, human beings are chased as if they were animals. ladies and gentlemen, it starts with hate speech and it ends with killing. i absolutely agree with what has been said here: if violence becomes a legitimate means of political action, it is the end of our civilisation. that is the reason why zero tolerance against extremism, be it from the right or the left, or from anywhere, is what we must implement, and we must do so through the rule of law. nobody is put in a prison on this continent by a private organisation, by a government or by the commission, but if people have committed a crime, it is independent courts which decide to punish their criminal behaviour. fortunately we live in a democracy where freely-elected institutions create law and where independent courts judge on the basis of those laws. that is the basis of the democracy which we have been building on this continent for so many decades. let us join our forces – left, right and centre – in order to fight those dangers which could put this democracy in peril.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, honourable members, i take away from this heartening debate a clear resolve to overcome right-wing extremism and intolerance and the racism and xenophobia which accompanies it. moreover, i hear a call to speak out clearly against all forms of extremism. a number of you have referred to specific situations and problems facing individual member states. i will not address the rise of any particular extremist parties, but i will simply reiterate the importance of standing firm in the face of all forms of intolerance, racism and xenophobia, because extremism is the opposite of all that european integration stands for. the european union was built on the hope and inspiration that peoples would learn to live alongside each other without fear of prejudice. right-wing extremism, on the other hand, feeds off prejudice and creates fear. let us together challenge all forms of extremism. individual member states will each tackle this scourge in their own way, within the framework of their own legislation, but we all can and should speak out in support of the values on which the union is founded and underline that extremist views are unacceptable to society as a whole.
author. - madam president, we are asking this oral question on the basis of the european parliament's resolution adopted on 11 september 2012 on the illegal flights of the cia and the arrests, also illegal, carried out on european territory, precisely in order to follow up the previous work of the european parliament. and that is why i have the honour to put this oral question, first of all to the commission, to find out whether the violation of community legislation on asylum and judicial cooperation has been fully investigated, whether measures have been taken to prevent any violation of fundamental rights and to strengthen the european union's capacity to respond to it; and to ensure parliamentary and democratic control of the crossborder activity of intelligence services, in particular in the context of the so-called committees of inquiry, which have taken place in the framework of the libe committee on the cia arrests and the so-called mass surveillance operations. because in a democracy, there's no room for black holes. but we also want to ask the council, of course, whether it has practised the principle of institutional loyalty in providing the minutes of some of the working group meetings in relevant councils in this case, which, according to some information, have been doctored; whether it is aware of the specific activity of the member states and its willingness to clarify with the european security agencies any knowledge it may have of the role played in these cia operations. and also, on the basis of these activities, we have an obligation to know which countries have raised these problems most intensely. we have sent a committee to lithuania, the country which currently holds the rotating presidency, but there have been similar allegations in romania, poland, finland, italy and the united kingdom. we therefore have an obligation to know exactly what has been done, not only to clarify the actions of the cia in those territories, but to ensure that it does not happen again and to also clear away any impression of impunity for these activities. because it is unacceptable that this could have happened without us having a clear and convincing account of what happened, who did what, who was aware of what was happening and, above all, what we can do to prevent it from happening again, because the investigations currently under way do not seem to have reached any good harbour. that is why we are putting an oral question. we also tabled a resolution and asked for the support of this house to send a message - a strong message, a strong message to the council, the commission and the member states - that the european parliament is fulfilling its responsibility by following up on this issue.
madam president, my first words will be of solidarity with the victims and their families. the lives lost, the pain suffered and the consequences for survivors should make us reflect on what more we can do to prevent tragedies like this from happening again. the union has a commitment in terms of aid and a moral commitment. first of all, i believe that legislative reforms are needed, distinguishing clearly between migrant victims, who should be better protected, and mafia members, who should be punished more severely. secondly, in terms of development aid and training, more investment must be made in the countries of origin and transit and in sensitive areas, providing stability and sufficient opportunities for these people to have a future, but also by developing training measures on the ground through our immigration liaison officers, strengthening the role of the competent local authorities in border control. i would like to say a word about a disgusting expression: distribution du fardeau, the distribution of the burden. it is repugnant to reason to call human beings a burden or a load, so, madam president, what we have to do is to distribute solidarity well and to organise solidarity well. and that's not done as in the syrian case, which means that only nine countries support resettlement instead of all the others.
madam president, the death in lampedusa is a tragedy, but it is not enough to say that; it is a disgrace, it is not enough to say that; it calls for the european union's compassion and it is not enough either. solidarity must be practised, which is not a pretty word, but a mandate of the treaty of lisbon - article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union - which the member states must give substance to and, therefore, solidarity must be practised in a humanitarian way with people in desperation, but also between member states in the management of an integrated border policy. and it is time for the member states to know. that is why it is regrettable that yesterday at the luxembourg council they set up a task force again. it is high time that the member states were able to articulate effective solidarity, not only in the integrated management of the external borders, not only with a non-repressive vision of eurosur, but also humanitarian, especially assuming that the policy of border management is finally, after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, a european policy and that it is no longer the sole responsibility of the member states.
madam president, mrs malmström, your speech today was frankly disappointing. we understand you just witnessed that tragedy. we asked him to be there when the last tragedy happened in lampedusa. but the answer today to that problem could not be more disappointing. mrs malmström, humanitarian visas already exist: it is the international protection statute. the problem is that governments do not grant them; they simply do. why should we invent another new formula if, moreover, the member states do not grant them afterwards? when you say that eurosur can be used to detect barges, mrs malmström, you must know that the technical systems for detecting barges are very complex and very expensive. spain set them in motion. we were detecting barges in the strait. many deaths were averted, but we were getting dozens of shipwrecked. they come here by the hundreds. then the alternative has to be different and much deeper than a think tank. it is not possible that at this stage, after we have been detecting these shipwrecks in the mediterranean since the 1980s, they will say that they are going to set up a think tank. don't you have a choice? it is not possible that the commission does not have the strength to tell the council that another alternative is needed. i'll give you two ideas. the joint investigation teams for the trafficking networks, why don't you start putting them in place now? why don't you start the joint patrols now? why don't we invite the countries of the south to cooperate? we involve them in this task and, in addition, we give them the necessary competence. because now they can't, because they don't have that competition. why don't we start organizing these joint patrols? we have already organized them with morocco and senegal, and they are producing very good results. why not involve those countries in that task, instead of creating another think tank again? what's the point? let's start now, because there are solutions. they've been getting started since the '80s. why don't we start applying them now? in lampedusa, in greece, in all those countries.
madam president, first of all, i would like to convey my sympathy to the families of all the victims. the dead of the lampedusa tragedy are an intolerable human toll from the tyrannical regimes and systems of misrule that we have allowed in countries that were european colonies. we focus on the symptom, the problems at the borders, but we still fail to recognize the disease. ending it requires much more than tracking down the culprits, repatriating undocumented immigrants, or tearing up our clothes and burying the dead. let us learn from the photographs of so many of our rulers with well-known dictators who made us blush during the arab spring; let us put the emphasis on more practical, controlled and reinforced cooperation with the countries of origin, and on more solidarity. the world needs a model of diplomacy that lives up to the founding values of the european union, which confronts misgovernment, tyranny, war or poverty that expels human beings from their land without hope because now, unfortunately, geostrategic or economic considerations forget people. mrs malmström, this requires honesty and political will as well as resources. i would therefore like to know why measures which already exist are not being implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'd like you to answer these questions.
madam president, mrs malmström, mr mulder, i would have liked to have tabled an amendment to article 1 because when it says to 'detect, prevent and combat illegal immigration', we should have put 'to combat traffickers'. is that the problem really, because how are we going to fight illegal immigration when they come by the hundreds in boats? it's just impossible right now! right now, it's saving victims, but mixing the one with the other is already starting to confuse us. why are human traffickers not prevented and detected when they go on board ships with joint investigation teams? this is a kind of confusion which is dangerous because, later on, when mrs malmström also says that serious crimes will be prosecuted - i would also like to remind my colleague mrs sippel - it is not just the bossi-fini act, no: when we define serious crimes - and there are 32 crimes defined as such in the european arrest warrant - one of them is aiding immigrants, which is considered a serious crime by the european union. we use it precisely to define serious crime and we must remove it from there, because it is not possible to use that definition and it is not possible to mix that confusion in a document in which it is precisely a question of coordinating and mapping the situation, on the one hand, to fight against human traffickers, drug trafficking, etc., and, on the other, to help rescue. but let's clear that confusion, because it's dangerous in the future.
madam president, i welcome and applaud eurosur. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. we will be with eurosur as we are with schengen or frontex. however, i cannot support the report because article 17a is, in my view, clearly an attempt to circumvent the law and clearly violates the schengen acquis. protocol 19 to the agreement contains the unambiguous legal formula to be used by those states wishing to participate in its provisions. but all this requires the unanimity of the members of the council after receiving the request of the country concerned and the knowledge of the commission. this procedure has not been followed here, which is obligatory as eurosur is a development of the schengen acquis. a member state which is not part of schengen cannot be equated with a third country. the governments that are part of this common area have obligations and responsibilities, in economic, political and solidarity terms, that those european governments that are not part of it, that are not part of schengen, do not have. we cannot, ladies and gentlemen, create a schengen system to the letter, as is intended here, because we would set a precedent which would dismantle one of the great achievements of community policy, which is the schengen area.
member of the commission. − madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here tonight to inform you about the actions i have decided to take following the press allegations about the possible access of the us national security agency (nsa) to the data exchange through the eu-us terrorist finance tracking programme (tftp) agreement. on 24 september i met many of you in the libe committee and informed you about the ongoing efforts to follow up on this matter, which is of course of great concern. the discussions in libe were helpful and confirmed the need to clarify a number of issues. since the first allegations appeared in the press, as i told you then, i have immediately taken action. in july, i sent a first letter to my us counterpart, and on 11 september i called on the under-secretary for the treasury department, mr cohen, and told him that i was waiting for substantial information on the alleged tapping. the next day i also sent him a letter, in which i requested the opening of consultations under article 19 of the tftp agreement. as you know, this is the procedure that is regulated in the agreement in case there are questions or things that need to be clarified. in reply to my letter – and i shared the letter with the libe committee on 23 september – the us authority provided some explanations. but several important questions remained unanswered. i therefore, this monday, met with under-secretary cohen in brussels and i appreciate that he came despite the budgetary constraints. we had open and very long discussions and he clarified a number of points. during that meeting, under-secretary cohen explicitly confirmed that since the entry into force of the tftp agreement the us government has not collected financial messaging from swift in the eu. he also said that the us government has not served any subpoenas on swift in the eu during that period. i insisted to have that very important confirmation statement confirmed in writing. we also discussed in some detail the established channels through which the us does obtain financial information in swift format used by financial institutions worldwide. also on this, i asked for further explanations in writing, in order to be absolutely sure that these mechanisms do not conflict with the tftp agreement. at this stage, therefore, our contacts with swift and the us government have not really given any evidence that the tftp agreement had been violated. some further clarifications are, however, needed before we can draw full conclusions. concluding the consultations with the us remains on the top of my agenda and also for my staff and we intend to do our best to get all information needed in the very near future. of course, i will make sure that you are fully informed about future developments at the outcome of these consultations.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, in the previous plenary session, in the debate on the future internal security strategy, i stressed that in order to fight terrorism effectively, we must focus on prevention. i would also like to make a few comments on this matter today. the media have clearly aroused the concern of the citizens of the union. that's why we're investigating and looking for evidence of the disturbing spying by the us national security agency. at this time, we have no hard evidence to support that. the competent authorities, both mrs malmström and the director of europol have said - and have now reiterated their conversation with mr cohen - that the facts have not been proved. in the face of this reasonable doubt, i consider it rash to take a measure to suspend the agreement. the tctp is a useful tool for detecting and limiting the operational capabilities of terrorist groups. this was demonstrated in the unique case of breivik in norway, where the tctp made it possible to identify within a few hours the channels through which he collected the funds he used in the terrorist attack. i would also remind you that the articles of the convention lay down the procedure to be followed in the event of one of the parties failing to comply with the agreement. and of course, what it does not stipulate is that the decision should be taken unilaterally and the agreements suspended. the logical thing is to follow the legally agreed channels, correct what is necessary and continue with the ordinary application of the same. the concern we have today about the possible violation of our rights and our privacy is reasonable and legitimate. that's why we keep searching for the truth. that's why we're continuing to investigate without acting rashly. but, ladies and gentlemen, one risk cannot be corrected by creating or encouraging others if there are no solid and verifiable foundations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. madam president, mr stoyanov, if you had paid the proper attention to my words, you could not have asked me that question, because i did not make the statement you are saying i did. what i said was there's a reasonable doubt. what i said was that we're worried. and that's why parliament is investigating. and i added that, on the basis of a presumption, we cannot suspend an agreement. we could suspend an agreement based on proven facts, but not based on a presumption.
madam president, the least that could be done is to suspend the agreement, to freeze it. it's the least i can do. and here is the degree of the level of demand that we europeans have to make of ourselves in order to defend our sovereignty and to defend human rights within the framework of the european union. how far are you prepared to defend them? i think it's obvious - and for those who don't, it's because they don't want to see it - that it's the us administration that has carried out the largest criminal spying operation without any authorization since world war ii. whoever does not want to see this is their problem, but there is plenty of evidence, not only in the european union but in the whole world, in latin america. why should we have a different reaction than other governments? i refer to the reaction of president dilma rousseff in brazil. immediately, when he learned that, indeed, with the same evidence as we have, he had been the object of espionage, he immediately demanded an explanation and a rectification from the head of the us administration, president obama. in my view, that is what the european union should have done: it should have gone to the person responsible, president obama, and demanded accountability, because we are dealing with a criminal act. in my country and in many countries of the european union, if you spy without judicial authorization, you commit a criminal act.
madam president, let us see, regardless of what each of us voted for the tftp agreement, the truth is that there is something very troubling about a debate in which the need to be factual is invoked over and over again and what we find is that, despite the efforts of this parliament to verify the facts, representing the legitimate concerns of millions of citizens who are scandalized by mass spying, the truth is that we cannot verify the facts because we are being denied exactly the information. despite the efforts made by the commission, the only thing that is certain is that the us national security agency has not categorically denied that it is obtaining swift data by any other means than the one strictly regulated in the tftp agreement. and this lack of clarity on the fundamental point is itself a challenge to the terms of the agreement. it is, in itself, construed as a violation of the same. and this is very serious, because we have had the opportunity in the committee of inquiry - the surveillance inquiry we are carrying out in the libe committee - to refute this allegation, and the allegation has not been refuted, either by the communication from secretary cohen or even by the representative of the swift company itself, which has been unable to state with certainty that its information, control and security systems for data transmission have not been subjected to a cyberattack by the united states national security agency. and this, in itself, is very serious. the question is therefore: does the commission think, does the commission envisage the possibility of requesting the suspension of the agreement, in view of this clear appearance of a breach of the agreement which means that it cannot be denied with complete certainty that swift data are not being used in any other way than that agreed in the tftp agreement?
madam president, a logical concern - and this debate we are having here tonight shows this - is caused by the news about the information programmes of the us national security agency and the possible massive violation of fundamental rights. the commission, i believe, must gather the information necessary to offer a strong and unique position throughout the european area. in the meantime, all precautionary measures that are appropriate to protect the fundamental rights of european citizens must be taken. but above all, this episode should serve to push for an urgent reform of the regulations on data protection and on the privacy of communications between individuals. it is essential to have a regulation that is in keeping with the times throughout the european area. if the middle ages propagated the idea that the city makes us free - 'the city air makes us free', it was said - to highlight the advantages of royal protection against personal servitude to feudal lords, today it must be the air of european law that guarantees our private life. we therefore defend the air of freedom from the european union against the winds that can unleash other dark and closed powers.
author. - madam president, we all agree that crossborder crime is on the rise in the european union. the final report of the crim commission makes this clear, as does the latest socta (serious and organised crime threat assessment) exercise carried out by europol, which points out that a whole new breed of crime operates in networks or through networks capable of acting internationally in several countries, with multiple partners and in very different areas at the same time. this means not only that the old national frontiers are easily crossed, but also that crime can no longer be linked to specific regions or to a particular centre of gravity. it is therefore very important that these criminal networks are jointly attacked in the european union, with efficient use of all available cross-border mechanisms for exchanging information and coordinating operational activities. so we are facing a major challenge for the european union as a whole and today's debate should try to provide some insight into how we can better structure and organise ourselves to exchange information on the application of the laws of the union so that criminals can be arrested as quickly as possible and at the same time guarantee the fundamental rights of citizens. there is already a panoply, a range of tools for gathering, processing and comparing information between the authorities of the european union in the enforcement of european law, both at judicial and police level, but these tools were not designed from the beginning, but are being developed gradually and, in some cases, there is overlap of instruments, there is also inefficient use and sometimes even little transparency. the european parliament is therefore aware of the need to establish a coherent and consolidated framework in which all these instruments are assessed jointly and we draw up a status map of community and member state legislation in this field, including international agreements governing the exchange of data and an independent assessment to increase our effectiveness in the fight against crime. in this analysis, the commission should propose a vision for the future that translates into a debate on how to optimise efforts to share information against crime within the union, while ensuring that there is respect for privacy and data protection. we are talking, in short, about the principles of necessity, proportionality, transparency, accountability when crossing available data. and this is where, in that toolbox, a reflection is triggered around the so-called prüm decision, which was adopted in 2008. because since 2005, seven member states, under the auspices of the prüm commission, have incorporated into european law a conditional possibility of automatically tracing and comparing personal data relating to dna, fingerprint and vehicle registration databases. prüm has proven to be an effective tool, a useful tool for cross-border police activity in criminal investigations. but what we want to do is to call for the 'lisbonisation' of prüm, an appeal to us to bear in mind that the prüm decision was adopted, at the time, in the framework of the third pillar 'intergovernmental cooperation' and in a way completely unrelated to the democratic control capacities which, at european level, express the greater powers of this parliament after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. so i think the question is whether the commission is prepared to push for the 'lisbonisation' of the prüm decision, in line with what i believe would be a coherent interpretation of protocol 36 to the lisbon treaty, and i would like to hear from the european commission a commitment in that direction.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and its chair for raising this question. information exchange is a very important instrument for law enforcement cooperation in the european union, so we are very happy to see a debate revolving around this important topic. we welcome the changes made by the lisbon treaty, notably the greatly-enhanced role of the european parliament, which enhances the democratic scrutiny and accountability of eu activities in areas which were previously largely intergovernmental. as regards the prüm decision, the commission decided not to consider further changes to the legal basis before full implementation has taken place. otherwise we would have even slower implementation, which would delay the whole process. we are pushing for very swift implementation by member states in a legally-stable environment. this was adopted under the former third pillar, so the commission does not have the usual rules for monitoring national implementation in a transitional period. but from december 2014, the commission will be able, if needed, to use infringement proceedings. in the communication from the commission on the european information exchange model, we concluded that no new eu-level law enforcement information exchange instruments are needed at this stage. the existing eu instruments could – and should – be much better applied in a more consistent way. we have presented a number of specific recommendations, for instance agreeing on a common, standard communication channel – preferably europol – establishing integrated units as single points of contact to facilitate a consistent approach to cross-border data sharing, and stepping up eu training to exchange tools, in line with the law enforcement training scheme. we also need to ensure high standards of data security and data protection, and we need to have meaningful statistics. the debate on how best to improve the effectiveness of the existing instruments, channels and tools for law enforcement information exchange has been under way for a while. it was inspired by the preparation and publication of our communication. we very much welcome the fact that this debate is now going on at a political level, in the council and at the european parliament. we have discussed this in the council of ministers on several occasions and pushed member states to move on with their implementation. finally, on data protection, you are of course aware that the proposed directive on data protection in the field of law enforcement includes a commitment from the commission to review existing legal instruments in this field, involving processing of personal data within three years of the directive entering into force. that is where we are at the moment. we are of course looking forward to your proposals.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, a timely oral question which i certainly welcome very much. the complexity of the fight against crossborder crime should lead us to intensify police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it was, as you know, in 2005 that the prüm treaty was signed, between only seven states, and it was adopted in 2008. its success made new member states want to join it and make it a community tool. however, as the various commission reviews have shown, the assistance of multiple european agencies with varying powers in judicial and police matters, the signature of bilateral and multilateral international conventions by the member states themselves, and the different systems for exchanging information (sis, sis ii, sirene, siena, among others) have created a regulatory framework which does not always facilitate the necessary cooperation at community level. that said, i do agree with the conclusions of the commission in its communication of 7 december, as i believe that there is no need to create new databases or new information exchange instruments, but that existing ones can and should be applied more consistently. it is necessary to adapt this legislation to the lisbon treaty by providing it with greater safeguards and by subjecting its initiatives to democratic scrutiny in parliament. lisbon must replace a decision on the third pillar, and all this without forgetting the substantive principles of the original prüm treaty. how curious for the previous debate! the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals, in particular their right to privacy and the protection of personal data, or the need-based right, i.e. restrictions on the right to privacy can only be justified if they are lawful, pursue a legitimate aim or are necessary in a democratic society. this is also prüm. congratulations to you, juan fernando!
member of the commission. − madam president, it has been a long day. thank you very much for this debate. i will try to answer some of the questions on switzerland. in order to finalise the negotiations on energy, we have negotiations on an institutional framework that should also be finalised before any agreement can be implementable. negotiations on the institutional framework aim at allowing switzerland to participate in the internal market while respecting its rules, of course. as for the questions on san marino, andorra and monaco, we are, as i said, looking at different options in this report that will be published in a couple of months and will be discussed with you. legally speaking, becoming part of the eea happens either through european union membership – and that is a very long-term objective – or through efta, and there has been no request from any of the small countries to do that. so we will probably have to find another solution to accommodate the needs and the desires there. to mrs sanchez-schmid, who is still around, we appreciate the role of foreign policy and the contribution to local development of micro-states, and the report i referred to earlier will try to provide solutions to the concerns that you mentioned. finally, enforcement of eu legislation is, of course, a must for any country willing to participate in the internal market. how this could take place in the case of the micro-states is analysed in the report that we will present, so some more answers will be given there. we will convey your questions and concerns to high representative ashton, and she or someone from her cabinet will come back to you and discus this in a couple of months. thank you very much for your input and thank you, madam president, for leading this and many other debates this afternoon.
the first item on the agenda is the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on caste discrimination, by eva joly, on behalf of the committee on development (o-000091/2013 - (2013/2676(rsp)) - b7-0507/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank eva joly for asking this question. it enables me, on behalf of the high commissioner, to discuss the very important matter of caste-based discrimination in several world societies. we are strongly committed to fighting all forms of discrimination. combating discrimination is high on the list of human rights priorities in the current eu strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy. caste-based discrimination is an essential part of it. the eeas, the commission and member states make use of a number of tools and instruments such as bilateral dialogue and eu financial support to civil society organisations. caste-based discrimination is systematically included in our regular human rights dialogue and in our regular contacts with human rights defenders. this concerns our partner countries in which this human rights issue is particularly relevant, such as india, nepal, bangladesh and pakistan, but also mauritania. the eu provides support to address caste-based discrimination and the consequences thereof by means of eu instruments, in particular the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr). the eidhr strategy documents for 2011 to 2013 contain an explicit reference to caste-based discrimination. allow me to give you a practical example. in india, caste-based discrimination is considered a cross-cutting human rights and development issue and is included in many calls for proposals. the commission has funded projects worth eur 4 million on discrimination and violence against women and girls. we are also taking a multi-layered approach based on the promotion of human rights and the socio-economic and psychological emancipation of victims. development aid has supported initiatives that promote access to education, labour rights, and the rights of women and minorities. the eu funds several projects in bangladesh that focus on poverty reduction and the rights of the most vulnerable and impoverished groups. we are also funding projects that aim to improve access to justice for victims of caste-based discrimination. in this regard, the commission is devoting eur 30 million to projects in bangladesh and pakistan that aim to improve access to and the functioning of local justice and police systems. allow me to stress that humanitarian aid is always non-discriminatory, based on needs, and pays particular attention to the most vulnerable. consequently, humanitarian work funded by the european commission in south asia explicitly addresses caste-based discrimination and refers to the lowest castes as among the most vulnerable when taking funding decisions. at the multilateral level, we have been very active in the un context and have contributed to the work of the former un sub-commission for promotion and protection of human rights. we also contributed to the debate on caste-based discrimination in the un universal periodic review for india, pakistan, sri lanka, nepal and bangladesh. in conclusion, caste-based discrimination is a high priority for the eu. we want to combat it and we do so in the most comprehensive and effective way as part of our overall strategy to wipe out all kinds of discrimination. we have a number of tools and instruments at our disposal, such as bilateral dialogues and financial support for civil society organisations. we use them in a flexible manner, taking an approach which is tailor-made to the countries most affected by this problem.
thank you, cecilia. knowing your commitment, we are confident that you will do all you can on such a tremendous and dramatic issue.
i can't resist sharing a little reflection with you. a delegation from the committee on development has just returned from the summit on the achievement of the united nations millennium development goals. there was mr mitchell, there was mr nicholson, there was mr cashman and myself. and i have to say that i don't remember this issue being brought up, perhaps because of something that was also indicated by some of the speakers, perhaps not to disturb the largest democracy in the world. but it is good that we are reacting to this issue, because, before the world community - as i say - the issue has seemed rather silenced, when we all agree that it is a problem of tremendous injustice and tremendous drama. forgive me for this comment, but it is good that the few of us here are aware of this phenomenon.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for raising this question. i fully agree with you that, in 2013, to have millions of people considered as untouchable and discriminated in the horrendous ways that you have borne witness to and that we all know, is of course not acceptable. we must do everything we can not only to raise awareness, but to fight against this. as some of you highlighted, there has been certain progress. for example, in india, the government has established a regime providing for affirmative action quotas for these castes, to ensure their political representation, as well as quotas for access to higher education and employment in public service. in nepal, there is a new law on anti-discrimination that was enacted in 2011 and is now under implementation. so there is progress. but surely, so much more needs to be done. we try to use our existing tools to the maximum, as i told you in my introductory comments, to try to support the most vulnerable and constantly raise the issue in our human rights dialogues with these countries. we will keep on pushing for change with the different instruments that we have. we are also publishing, as you know, an annual report on the implementation of the eu strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy, and caste-based discrimination is fully part of it. that report is shared with the european parliament and fully available. let me say that deep-rooted discrimination and attitudes of course do not change in a couple of weeks. it takes time, and that is why it is so important to raise awareness, not only in those countries, of course, but also here in europe. i would like to congratulate the european parliament on this report by ms joly, with cross-border support from all political groups, to raise awareness and make sure that these people, who are very often forgotten, are not forgotten, but are given a face, and that the world and its citizens are aware of the full extent of the discrimination and realities that they live under. you can count on the commission and the high representative’s continued commitment to do whatever we can in order to fight this discrimination.
a motion for a resolution was tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the rule of law and human rights in russia, in particular as regards xenophobia and homophobia, by ulrike lunacek, raül romeva i rueda, marije cornelissen and werner schulz, on behalf of the green group/european free alliance (o-000089/2013 - (2013/2836(rsp)) - b7-0506/2013). the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the rule of law and human rights in russia, in particular as regards xenophobia and homophobia, by cornelis de jong, patrick le hyaric, marisa matias, paul murphy, helmut scholz, alda sousa and gabriele zimmer, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left (o-000101/2013 - (2013/2836(rsp)) - b7-0513/2013). question for oral answer to the commission on the rule of law and human rights in russia, by kristiina ojuland and sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-000102/2013 - (2013/2836(rsp)) - b7-0514/2013). the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the rule of law and human rights in russia, in particular as regards xenophobia and homophobia, by véronique de keyser, libor rouček, ana gomes, maría muñiz de urquiza, knut fleckenstein, michael cashman and sergio gutiérrez prieto, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o-000103/2013 - (2013/2836rsp)) - b7-0515/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, i know that this is a concern which this house has raised several times over the last month and we share the concerns about the human rights situation in russia. let me start by assuring you that the concerns expressed here have been met with determination and consistency in our response. from the outset the european union has made clear that we believe that russia should respect its international commitments and strive for a system fully based on the rule of law, respect for human rights and an ever more democratic society. we have repeatedly flagged the inconsistencies between these commitments and the new laws recently adopted on libel, treason, demonstrations, ngo foreign funding, blasphemy, so-called homosexual propaganda, as well as on internet control. the questions that you have raised essentially draw on two of these recent pieces of legislation: the law on foreign agents and the law on promotion of non-traditional sexual relations among children and minors, as it is called. i would like to highlight the ways in which we in the european union have reacted since last june. first, we have continued to pursue intensive diplomatic efforts to express our concerns with regard to the adoption and implementation of these laws. the high representative has reacted publicly every time new problematic laws were passed, which has made our position very clear and very well known. we have also systematically raised these issues in all our discussion with our russian counterparts. we are convinced that the law prohibiting so-called homosexual propaganda stigmatises particular groups and individuals and leads to violence. therefore, we have called on russia to amend this legislation in our human rights consultations, but also in other political dialogues. i, myself, have regular contact with the russian authorities especially from the ministry of justice and interior, and i have raised this question numerous times in moscow and in meetings here in brussels and elsewhere. we have also engaged in moscow in dedicated exchanges with representatives of the presidential council for civil society and human rights, who have been at the forefront of the proposals to amend these laws. these questions were raised at the yekaterinburg summit last june. in particular, vice-president/high representative ashton emphasised the eu concerns with the shrinking space for civil society, which is leading russia in the wrong direction. we further stressed the importance of having a better format for our human rights consultation, which in our view should take place in moscow and with the participation of russian ministers. the next round of talks is foreseen for the end of the year. thirdly, we have also been active on the multilateral front. most recently, the european union called upon the united nations human rights council on 17 september, during its 24th session, to pay urgent attention to the situation in russia with regard to these two pieces of legislation, and called upon the russian federation to uphold its commitment to protect the enjoyment of basic rights of expression, of assembly and of opinion by all. we invited russia to actively strive towards a more conducive attitude regarding the inclusion and tolerance of minorities in russian society. we have issued similar statements in the council of europe and in the osce. we very much hope that russia will look again at these texts and the implementation of the legislation and fully heed the recommendation by the venice commission, due early next year. the very existence of a number of human rights ngos in the russian federation is at stake. some of them, like golos, an election-monitoring organisation, have been closed or fined. around 70 organisations have been warned not to receive foreign funding, or have received a notice of violation according to which they should register as a ‘foreign agent’. this label is a clear attempt to discredit these organisations or to silence them through self-censorship, harassment, or by cutting down their sources of financing. therefore, our efforts have also aimed at continuing to support these ngos so as to help them continue their legitimate work. we believe that our support in areas as different as the rights of conscripts, the protection of journalists and minority rights contribute to the establishment of the rule of law in russia. we will continue supporting civil society organisations, notably through the eidhr in russia. we will continue to keep in constant contact, in moscow, in the regions and in brussels, with these organisations. the eu special representative for human rights, mr stavros lambrinidis, is engaged with human rights officials and with civil society and he will travel to russia at the end of this month. over the last month we took every opportunity to restate our firm support for their work, whilst stressing that they are not, in any way, anyone’s agent. this message was stressed during the visit of the eeas senior officials to russia at the end of september. it was repeated by eeas senior officials during the last general assembly of the eu-russia civil society forum just this monday and we also, together with the member states, engage actively in trial observation to assess the fairness of the justice system. the crackdown on civil society, the discrimination against sexual minorities and the persisting deficiencies in the rule of law will not be without effect on bilateral relations with russia. russia should know that these developments will not strengthen our relationship. we believe it is in russia’s best interest to foster the rule of law and to adopt legislation in conformity with its commitment and the values shared by the members of the council of europe. we stand ready to support russia, our neighbour and strategic partner, in doing so, in a frank and, we hope, constructive dialogue.
i would like to add my condolences to the family of mr martens, whose death we have just learned. but i want to pay tribute to him in the sense that everyone knows he was not from my 'political family' and yet both his and mine share a set of values which are linked to the issue we are discussing this morning: respect for human rights, respect for the human condition. the human condition can be violated in different ways, by different causes of inequality, by different failures to respect fundamental rights, and one of them, of course, has to do with the free choice of sexual orientation of each person. i therefore believe that when we are asking russia to respect the rule of law, we are not defending the rights of just a certain number of people, whether they are older or younger, but the rights of everyone, because it is the human condition that is put at risk when those rights are violated. i therefore encourage, support and encourage the work being done by the commission and mr lambrinidis. and we must send a clear message to russia - an important neighbour, as you have just said - that our whole relationship is a global relationship, and in that global relationship there are not only economic or energy interests: there are fundamentally the values we defend in the union.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start on behalf of the commission by paying tribute to mr martens, who was a great european; our thoughts today are with his family and his friends. can i start this quite morose debate with one piece of good news? this morning russia has suspended its 100% checks on lithuanian lorries and this is as a result of hard work by the commission, the eeas and persistent support and solidarity from the presidency. however, the ban on dairy products is maintained. so that was the good news. now the bad news. there are more concerns on the human rights front. the verdict on tuesday sentencing the bolotnaya square demonstrator mikhail kosenko to psychiatric internment is a bad souvenir of the past. the world was also shocked to read the letter written by nadezhda tolokonnikova from pussy riot, describing her horrible detention conditions and the hunger strike that she has started. we have initiated a demarche to express our deep concern to the russian authorities and to ask for her detention conditions to be eased and for her family and lawyers to be granted access to her. you will also have read about greenpeace in the news recently. we are in permanent contact in brussels and in moscow with both greenpeace and our member states and the different consulates and embassies. for the time being, all have favoured a consular approach, rejecting the charge of piracy. we will give all support to obtain the early release of the 30 people under arrest and of the boat. let me also apologise to mr cashman because i forgot to answer his question on visas. this is something that takes up quite a lot of my work. in the visa liberalisation process, we are negotiating in four blocks and one of those is human rights. this is also the block in which we have made the least progress. so this is continuously raised in our dialogues on all levels – at ministerial level and at working level – with the russian authorities. so my apologies for not coming back to that. i am struck, i must say, by the very strong consensus in this house. we are all extremely concerned about the situation in russia, especially with regard to the two laws we have been discussing, but also in respect of other issues. in my introduction i gave you quite a long summary of everything that the high representative and the commission are doing in order to continuously use all the tools that we have to raise these issues, to condemn, and to try to work for a change. i hear the very clear support for that and your concerns in this house. that is very important and i am sure we will come back to this issue because it is not likely to change in the short term.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, 2012 saw an increase in the number of cases brought before the committee on petitions due to a greater awareness of european citizens regarding their ability to demand, as well as an increase in the problems they face. the issues raised range from fundamental rights to economic and social rights, environmental, cultural and individual rights. many petitions denounce the loss of biodiversity and the erosion of ecosystems, the poor management of waste, the dangers of nuclear energy and the extraction of shale gas by fracking. the committee calls for the precautionary principle to be applied to technological innovations involving genetically modified organisms and nanotechnology. it stressed the need to avoid discrimination on grounds of gender, religion, belief, disability, membership of minority groups, age or sexual orientation, and warned that the roma population continued to face obstacles to integration. the deep economic and social crisis in europe has been manifested in the increase in demands related to housing, employment and speculative practices in the financial sector. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against the dangers of radiation and the protection of the environment. member states must reduce the gap between national laws and the fundamental rights of union citizens. finally, the investigative role of the committee on petitions should be strengthened by organising public hearings and by increasing its full capacity.
mr president, i too regret that the rapporteur for this report is not here today to hear what we have to say to the other colleagues. i do not know the reasons, but i would certainly like to make a comment to mrs auken before i begin. i regret that mrs auken does not understand what democracy is, that she does not accept what majorities and minorities are, granted by european citizens and voted for by european citizens, mrs auken. we have experienced the resentment you have against the people's party and against all the petitions from spain in the committee on petitions, but when it comes to you and when it comes to the danish government, we clearly see the intransigence you apply to these issues. but let me also focus, mr president, on what the committee on petitions is. i shall dwell on a particularly sensitive subject, namely the handling of petitions relating to the application of the spanish coastal law of 1998. for us, this is an example of how a parliamentary committee should not function: our rules of procedure establish the right to petition in article 201 et seq. and make it clear that the committee is competent to examine citizens' complaints and to analyse whether or not they respect community law. the case of the spanish coastal law in this committee is one of those cases in which petitions remain open, despite having organised several sessions with the petitioners and the authorities, despite having carried out an investigation mission and having drawn up a working document on it. i do not know whether this is in the interests of some or the political agenda of others. the political use of this committee in this matter is scandalous, and this despite the fact that it has been made clear in various ways that we are not competent to intervene and that this is a matter of national concern, thus enshrining the principle of subsidiarity. this has been stated on several occasions by the european commission and the legal service of the european parliament. the latter's opinion has been hidden by all means because its conclusions were not liked. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs auken, this is a european parliament and the committees of the european parliament are committees where politics is discussed, where there are majorities and where there are minorities. you have to accept, when there are agreements with the liberal, socialist or the people's group itself, the decisions, and that is the problem you have, that you do not like the majority decisions taken in the committee on petitions. that is not a problem of the ppe: it is a problem that you have, because you do not accept the majority decisions taken in the committee on petitions.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because, although part of the eu's financial aid to jordan is intended to alleviate the serious effects of the syrian refugee crisis, much of it is linked to economic and political reforms implementing or benefiting the european union's interests in the country. this aid will always be in addition to the aid previously granted by the imf to deepen the neoliberal economic reforms which have led the european continent into the current economic crisis. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. parliament is asked to give its consent (by adopting a protocol to the eu-jordan association agreement) to jordan’s participation in eu programmes open to partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). the possibility of participating in eu programmes is open to all enp countries: currently, such protocols are in force with ukraine, moldova and morocco, and have been signed with israel and armenia. a formal request was made by jordan in march 2011 and the protocol was signed at the eu-jordan association council in december 2012. the positive recommendation by the committee on foreign affairs (rapporteur annemie neyts-uyttebroeck, alde): (1) stresses the importance of promoting close cooperation with and support for jordan; (2) stresses the severe impact of the influx of 500 000 syrian refugees on the country’s economy and finances, while finding the closure of the jordanian borders to palestinian refugees from syria regrettable; (3) lauds the personal commitment of king abdullah to ‘promoting a very wide-ranging process of reforms’, while stressing the importance of achieving sustainable results especially in terms of social justice; and (4) welcomes jordan’s constructive role of mediation in the middle east conflicts.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the eurosur surveillance system is a step forward in building a 'fortress europe'. eurosur is a monitoring tool that violates fundamental rights in different areas: from the criminalisation of immigrants, through the confusion between irregular immigration and the fight against crime, the violation of the privacy of data on immigrants, etc. a control machine with the very expensive budget of 338 million euros that could be increased in the future. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted against. our group is very critical not only of the prospect of the development of a major surveillance system of drones and satellites, controlling our external borders, but also of the externalisation of border control which the proposal implies. furthermore, the explicit goal of preventing illegal migration and closing the borders is of major concern, as it is not the way to handle migration. the proposal is costly and ineffective and has the wrong aim.
in writing. - i voted in favour because it is a project of great interest to spain and is intended to deal with a situation which is really dramatic, although the text voted on suffers from certain inaccuracies. the commissioner said that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's citizens were not left behind. someday we'll have to put a stop to this brazenness.
mr president, i would like to point out that our group of the european people's party voted in favour. we think that the revision of directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators containing cadmium is an important initiative, as it calls for them to be banned and for the waste from these batteries to be easily removed from equipment that has reached the end of its useful life before 31 december 2015. it should be noted that, although it is beyond the scope of this commission proposal, the revision of the exemption for cadmium is an opportunity to remove, also, another exemption which seems to be out of place today, such as the possibility that button batteries still contain mercury. the commission report demonstrates the need to reduce the risk of mercury being released into the environment and therefore the rapporteur has proposed this mercury ban on button batteries.
in writing. - cadmium is a very toxic metal. for some years now a policy has been developed to eliminate the use of cadmium and replace it with safer alternatives. the proposal is a further step along this road, which could have been more ambitious in terms of timetables. i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i consider that the proposed amendments to directive 2006/66/ec improve environmental aspects and consumer protection. the report points out the problems of the directive on certain types of button batteries which may be left out of the collection system and which contain high levels of mercury. the report seeks to introduce such batteries into the directive in the face of the problems of mercury pollution which have been detected in various european countries; it is necessary to tackle the possible sources which release this component into the environment. the proposal states that batteries and devices which do not comply with the new rules should be withdrawn from the market. i voted in favour of this report because of its more restrictive approach to polluting devices.
in writing. − i voted in favour. directive 2006/66/ec prohibits the placing on the market of all batteries or accumulators, whether or not incorporated into appliances, which contain more than 0.0005% of mercury by weight. however, button cells with a mercury content of no more than 2% by weight are exempted from that prohibition. the button-cell market in the union is already experiencing a shift towards mercury-free cells. it is therefore appropriate to prohibit the marketing of button cells with a mercury content exceeding 0.0005% by weight.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint resolution because it is intolerable that the various european institutions involved in this scandalous violation of human rights should remain silent. the democratic control which parliament is supposed to exercise over the commission and the council is being violated by these institutions. the case of cia flights within european airspace without any provision of information is a direct violation of the sovereignty of the member states of the union and the silence maintained by the institutions is nothing more than direct complicity in the human rights violations that the us government has committed and continues to commit. this resolution reflects all that and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. for i welcome the adoption of this resolution following up on the recommendations adopted last year. it is clear that the european commission and the council, which hide indecently behind an alleged lack of competence, are not doing so. the ostrich policy in the member states remains in force. the case is not closed. the echr has condemned macedonia for violations of the european convention on human rights in the extraordinary transfer of khaled el masri for a year, and is about to hear other cases involving poland, lithuania, romania and italy. new victims have lodged complaints in lithuania and poland, italian courts have convicted cia and italian secret service agents, an investigation has been launched in finland - all these are examples of the obligation on the member states and the union to continue the search for truth and justice.
in writing. - §17: i voted in favour of the text although i would like to hear from the proponents a list of those countries where there is 'effective democratic parliamentary control of the intelligence services'. paragraph 22: i abstain because the text is mixed up with a great variety of subjects.
mr president, the stockholm programme and the security strategy called for a more ambitious and forward-looking approach to the various crossborder instruments. the report does indeed complain at some point about the lack of ambition on the part of the commission. the rapporteur has clearly explained that a more ambitious vision is needed on how to set up and optimise the exchange of police information in the union, while also ensuring data protection and privacy. the report therefore encourages the creation of a framework for the implementation of the exchange of this information, based on the principles of necessity, quality, efficiency and accountability. and that is why we voted in favour, because we think that is the way to reach a positive resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it proposes, in a balanced way and with full respect for the law of the member states, an improvement in security cooperation. the resolution stresses the importance of improving cooperation between the different police information systems in the member states and the importance of bilateral agreements signed with third countries, so that what one country knows can be useful to another member state. the report seeks to harmonise the wide variety of instruments available in the different member states for requesting information in this area and thus improve crossborder cooperation. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the commission communications take stock of the various existing cross-border law-enforcement information-exchange instruments, channels and tools in the eu. the current ‘landscape’ of instruments, channels and tools is complicated and scattered, resulting in inefficient use of the instruments, inadequate democratic oversight at eu level and, in some cases, ‘function and access creep’. the commission should perform a mapping exercise of eu and national legislation, including (bilateral) international agreements, regulating the cross-border exchange of law-enforcement information. the commission believes that more meaningful statistics are necessary to measure the real value of instruments, and it calls for an independent, external evaluation of the existing instruments for eu law-enforcement information exchange in order to assess their measurable impact. so do we.
mr president, the european parliament resolution we voted on today condemns the constant violations of human rights perpetrated by those who believe in and suffer from the caste system. it is a tremendous discrimination, which denies the principle of equality, the values and everything for which the european union is fighting. among other things, it denies access to employment and the judicial system, and this permanent segregation and the obstacles imposed by caste deny the exercise of the most basic human rights and ultimately the development of the person. i think it was a very timely initiative to ask the union to promote this proposal on the principles and guidelines of the united nations for the effective elimination of this kind of discrimination based on employment, as i have stressed, and therefore to say that we voted in favour and that it was a great resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it introduces the concern about combating the caste system still existing in many asian countries into the european union's external diplomatic activity. the caste system produces a constant violation of human rights based on the political, religious or cultural tradition of some asian countries. these countries have not tried to eliminate these systems as they are functional to capital accumulation and therefore benefit from perpetuating them. the report calls for the eu to include a clause on combating such systems in its trade or association agreements. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour. we condemn the continuing human-rights violations committed against people suffering from caste hierarchies and caste-based discrimination, including the denial of equality and of access to the legal system and to employment, continued segregation and caste-induced barriers to the achievement of basic human rights and development. identity cards should avoid references to caste, as these are contrary to the principles of equality and social mobility. we welcome the report by githu muigai, the un special rapporteur on racism, and stress that all victims of caste-based discrimination throughout the world should receive the same attention and protection.
mr president, the spanish delegation of the pp and i voted against the annual report of the committee on petitions, and the reason is very clear: it was an open criticism of the recent coastal law adopted by the spanish government, whereas we are absolutely in favour of this law which has combined, for the first time in many years and in a very courageous way, the protection of the environment with the protection of private property as well. to tell them that "for example, a button": i come from the balearic islands, where there is a small island that is the island of formentera. it is an island which, under the old coastal law, was practically all but razed and, thanks to this new law promoted by the spanish government minister, mr arias cañete, is protected by a new line and no buildings will have to be thrown away as they were under the old coastal law. and like this, lots and lots of examples. it has provided a solution, it has been a courageous law and that is the only reason why we voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i consider it to be an appropriate summary of the work of the committee on petitions of the european parliament during the financial year 2012. this report attempts to summarise the information available on the various activities carried out by the committee, such as the number of petitions registered, the progress of the procedures opened in previous years, etc. it also strongly urged the member states to cooperate and participate in the work of the committee and regretted the lack of cooperation by some states. the report also draws attention to member states in various cases, such as the respect of directive 2004/38/ec which guarantees equal rights for european couples of different or same sex. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. i am especially happy that the following text was adopted: ‘notes that fundamental rights remain a key subject of the petitions submitted, notably raising issues related to the rights of persons with disabilities, children’s rights, property rights, the right of free movement, including the portability of social security entitlements, without encountering any form of discrimination on any grounds, the protection of freedom of expression and privacy, freedom of association, and the right of access to documents and information; calls on member states to apply correctly and respect those rights as set out in the treaty and calls on the commission to take the necessary measures to oblige non-compliant member states to close the gap between national laws and the fundamental rights of eu citizens; considers that special attention should be given to the right to historical memory and the rights to truth, justice and redress for families which suffered under franco’s dictatorship, as well as to the right of spain’s abducted children to know the identity of their biological parents.’
in writing. - amendment no 1: i am in favour, but i would have liked to add 'the franco regime and the civil war', because during war there are victims on both sides. the issue of stolen babies has certainly continued in spain until the 1990s and this reality should have been mentioned in the text put to the vote.
member of the commission. - the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles; i would like to join with you, ladies and gentlemen, in sharing the growing concern that you have expressed and that we feel about the escalation of violence in iraq. this country had begun a difficult transition to democracy that we hoped, that we still hope, is irreversible, and everything must be done to ensure that it remains so, despite the major challenges facing this country. the recent spiral of violence is dangerously weighing on the stability and future of this country which is in a crucial and pivotal position for the balance of this entire region. the figures, unfortunately, speak for themselves and many of you have cited them, with levels comparable to the black years from 2006 to 2008. almost 1,000 people died in september, nearly 6,000 since the beginning of the year, the overwhelming majority of them civilians, in an unprecedented outbreak of violence indiscriminately targeting pilgrims, passers-by, participants in religious celebrations or funerals. baghdad is the epicentre of this violence, and the shiites seem to have recently become, if i may say so, a prime target. the most worrying thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that this violence is taking place in a context of increasing exploitation of religious and sometimes ethnic divisions, including by the political class itself, which is also contributing to the entrenchment of these divisions in the population. it is clear that terrorist organisations such as al-qaeda or the islamic state in iraq, whose main objective remains to destabilise the country, will emerge strengthened from this climate of instability in a troubled regional context of which iraq is also and globally the victim. the european union, through catherine ashton, condemns this intolerable spiral of violence. it was able to express its concern for the stability of the country by calling on all iraqi political and religious leaders to show responsibility, to overcome religious divisions and to commit the countries to a genuine national reconciliation enabling a more effective fight against the cancer of terrorism. the high representative has put iraq on the council's agenda on several occasions, most recently in april, to ensure the commitment of member states on this issue and to consider how the european union can best engage more in iraq. in june of this year she went to iraq, met with the leaders of the various groups and encouraged efforts towards reconciliation and genuine national dialogue, as i have just said. ladies and gentlemen, iraq is perhaps one of the countries where catherine ashton has been most active and has made the most statements to remind us that violence cannot be forgotten or trivialised, and that political and religious authorities have a responsibility to make real efforts to promote peace and stability. i would also like to recall the unequivocal condemnation by mrs ashton of the attack on camp ashraf on 1 september, which mr kelly and several of you have mentioned during this debate. i would also like to recall the request to the iraqi authorities to investigate without delay and objectively who is really responsible for this attack. more than ever, it is urgent to secure a lasting solution to this issue with the transfer of the approximately 3 000 people now in the houria camp. as regards the seven hostages that some of you have mentioned and catherine ashton's letter to a member of parliament mentioned in the resolution, catherine ashton was indeed informed at the time that after the attack seven residents were missing from the call and appeared to have been abducted. rumors had circulated in the following days that they were being held in iraq and at risk of being transferred to iran. the information was neither clear nor proven, but it seemed plausible. the high representative therefore mentioned this, including in her contacts with the iraqi authorities. since then, there has been no official confirmation of these reports, which have been denied by the iraqi authorities, nor any clarification of the identity and fate of the alleged hostages. that is what i can say on his behalf on this point, and overall at the end of this debate, mr president, we welcome parliament's resolution as a useful contribution to the support that the european union can and must provide to help iraq get out of this impasse. it would be absolutely tragic to get used to such violence and also to trivialize it.
mr president, i think that this parliament should welcome the judgment which the european court of human rights has delivered today in the inés del rio case. the declaration of the illegality of the so-called 'parote doctrine' will help to remove one of the obstacles to the peace process in the basque country - the last armed conflict in western europe - and, moreover, it implies the recognition of the rights of prisoners. europe has taken a step towards peace with the decision of the european court of human rights.
mr. president, thank you for your patience. i would like to refer briefly to the victims of the consequences of the judgment of the court of human rights in strasbourg. it is unequivocally clear, mr president, that human rights must protect the victims more than the murderers. and that is why, mr president, i reject it - because it is here that the substance and form of that judgment can be politically rejected.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i do not know whether we should dismiss those responsible for this issue, but the fact is that it comes as a surprise to us, although it should not be a surprise to them. to find out on a weekend that you can get into a default is no small matter. i think that, as so often happens, this parliament will take a responsible position, even though we do not yet have the specific texts, even though we are not sure that it is absolutely necessary to adopt it in this house, even though we do not have enough confidence that the reasons we are being given are the real reasons and that there is no trick in the procedure. but, in view of all that, i think the president's proposal is correct and we must ensure that, if the committee on budgets finds that the proposals are sufficiently clear in the texts and do not affect the sum of 3.9 billion and that it is essential to approve it in this house, this item is placed on the agenda and is debated and approved next thursday.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the climate change conference in warsaw (cop 19) by matthias groote, karl-heinz florenz, dan jørgensen, corinne lepage, bas eickhout and sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000096/2013 2013/2666 ((rsp)) b7-0518/2013).
mr president, the latest report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change is devastating. we are responsible for the destruction of the planet - we know this - and, as governments and responsible for the institutions of the world, we are not doing what is necessary to prevent that destruction. we are responsible. there are too many excuses and too few commitments, and at the moment there are plenty of excuses. the warsaw summit must be crucial to moving forward on the durban platform and preparing the conclusions of that legally binding agreement we need. we cannot use the crisis and industry as an excuse. the industry is being strangled by the greed of some bankers and financial elites, not the commissioner or european regulations. we have to be very clear about that. this parliament must be ambitious and it cannot give up 30% or lead the fight against climate change which has achieved so much, in the little that has been achieved, but has achieved so much by setting a standard and pulling the rest of the world. it would be a shame if, at a time when the summit is being held in a member state, we were unable, because we wanted to give up that 30% target, to reach an agreement and present a common and ambitious position of this parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like first to thank the committee on international trade and, in particular, the rapporteur, mr proust, for the intensive work and constructive approach during the negotiation process. doing our utmost to prevent the manufacture of illicit drugs is, simply, our moral duty. in that regard, efforts made by the eu authorities and industry in controlling the external trade in certain legal substances used for the manufacturing of illicit drugs are already quite significant. but these efforts must now be extended to new substances that drug manufacturers are using in order to replace precursors which the existing legislation already controls. this is why i consider the amendment to the regulation on the international trade in drug precursors as a major step forward in our fight against the illicit manufacture of drugs. firstly, the regulation will respond to the united nations’ call for better monitoring of international trade in medicines containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine. this will help to prevent their use in producing the illicit drug methamphetamine while maintaining fair access to medicines. secondly, the new regulation will provide the union with fast-reaction mechanisms to address trafficking trends in new chemicals used as drug precursors. it enables the relevant eu authorities to seize shipments of those chemicals if they have sufficient evidence that they are intended for the production of illicit drugs. furthermore, it foresees the possibility of incorporating newly-identified substances firstly into voluntary monitoring by the industry and, where necessary, into the list of substances formally controlled by the customs authorities. this is a major contribution to international efforts against the diversion of drug precursors and therefore a great achievement in the fight against the manufacturing of illicit drugs.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the drug problem, but that we should be concerned about the problem of drug trafficking. to date, medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine were excluded from controls. these commonly used medicines - as mentioned here - for colds and allergies, used by everyone, could be manipulated and from them could be extracted the so-called drug precursors, narcotics. this regulation controls the movement of these substances through customs. it has to be easy and accessible, simplified, free of cost. the rapporteur has had a very good idea, which is to simplify the report by adding a new category, and this opens up the way for the future in the face of new substances that may appear. the truth is that this little report is in favour of the fight against drugs. we hope that the meetings taking place in the framework of the codecision procedure will not hinder its development and will make it possible to implement this new regulation, which is an important contribution to the fight against drugs, as soon as possible.
mr president, several members of the european parliament from different parts of spain have submitted written questions to the commission on the increase in vat in my country to 21% for services in schools, school canteens and extra-curricular activities, which represents a brutal increase for families. the 2006 directive is clear in article 132 as regards the vat exemptions. the court of justice of the european union has supported this interpretation of the exemption from vat on the supply of these services. commissioner šemeta has replied to members that he has asked the spanish government about this matter and is awaiting a reply, but spanish minister montoro has said that he will withdraw it if the commission asks him to. the commission has been quick to send a letter to the government against andalusia's decision to make a law against evictions, but what is the commission waiting for now for the spanish minister to withdraw this vat which deprives many families of these canteens which are now, in many cases, the only means of support they have for their children? please, commissioner, inform the commissioners concerned.
mr president, originally i was going to speak on racism and xenophobia, but recent events in western sahara have forced me, with the presidency's permission, to raise my concern that the visit of the united nations special envoy to the occupied territories of western sahara, mr christopher ross, is being ruthlessly repressed by the moroccan occupation forces. hundreds of people have been injured in the saharawi people who have wanted to express to the united nations authority their desire that they be given the opportunity once and for all to exercise their right to self-determination. i find these arrests in the presence of the special envoy scandalous and i believe that this parliament, the authorities of mrs ashton and the european commission should send a swift and unequivocal signal to stop this repression of the saharawi people. it seems to me unusual that the european union, which maintains a high-level association agreement, does not exercise that moral authority to stop this repression in the occupied territories.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the brutal relocation of an american company from gijón, in my constituency, to russia. i know that vice-president tajani, without going into the internal decisions of the company, is arguing that these things do not happen with european industry. i have visited tenneco-monroe and, believe me, it is exemplary, of an extraordinary quality. the workers and the equipment in general are great and the productivity is high. there are no economic reasons. it's a trap for the naive and a first transfer to poland. it can't be. the usa and europe are preparing a treaty of great scope that before birth should not have disloyalty between partners, such as tenneco-gijón. no one in poland should support this diabolical manoeuvre. we are really protecting european industry.
mr president, sexual and reproductive health is simply a matter of fundamental rights. the right to health for all people, the right to freedom in basic matters of people's life choice, such as sexual identity, equality, education and matters of child protection are involved in this issue. i therefore welcome the breadth and multidisciplinary approach to this work of the european parliament, its ambition and its attempt to deepen and to commit itself to values which are among those which gave rise to the union as an area of freedom and respect for fundamental rights, a form of coexistence in which practices such as genital mutilation have no place and within which i personally advocate a more active intervention model against trafficking in human beings, which makes businesses such as prostitution or pornography possible.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of mr peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on in vitro diagnostic medical devices (com ((2012) 0541 c7-0317/2012 2012/0267 ((cod)) (a7 0327/2013), and the report of mr dagmar roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on medical devices (com ((2012) 0542 c7-0318/2012 2012/0266 ((cod)) (a7 0324/2013).
mr president, we are in the 21st century, although the cuts in health care in some countries make it seem as if we were in the 19th century, and in this century we have had some problems, such as the breast prosthesis scandal, which, although it is a matter of fraud, indicates that some things should be changed. the work done by my colleague, mr dagmar roth-behrendt, to ensure that, in a complex and conflictual matter such as this, prostheses and medical devices are clearly identified, labelling is clear, supervision is guaranteed, transparency makes it possible to ensure traceability of each product, and that manufacturers are strictly controlled and inspections can be carried out without prior notice, was the minimum that this parliament could require in order to be up to the task and to meet the first objective to be protected, which is the health of patients. we are talking about prostheses that accompany people for the rest of their lives inside their bodies and in this issue there can be no alibis or excuses, as if we demand more transparency and more control measures there will be more unemployed. not again, please. it's about people's health versus interests that are sometimes just an alibi for not doing what we have to do. that's why i congratulate you. it was a very complex issue, and they did a very good job of resolving this conflict of interests in favour of health and patients, who are the ones we have to take into account in this parliament.
i congratulate mr liese on a work which has been recognised by the commission and all the colleagues who have spoken on the subject. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by monika hohlmeier and anne e. jensen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 (13176/2013 - c7-0260/2013 - 2013/2145 (bud)) (a7-0328/2013).
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as president of the council it is my pleasure to attend the european parliament’s debate on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. on 10 september, i had the honour to present to you in detail the commission’s position on the draft budget as adopted on 2 september, and last week, at the budgetary trilogue, we had the opportunity to discuss the amendments which the european parliament intends to vote on. i would like to stress that the council fully shares the european parliament’s political priorities. we both agree that the eu budget is one of the tools to promote growth and employment in the european union. however, the overall level of appropriations retained should be sufficient but not overestimated. let me now point out some of the issues to which the council attaches particular importance. firstly, the council regrets the significant increase in appropriations that the european parliament intends to vote on, especially when they go beyond the commission’s initial proposal. we believe that this approach is not the most appropriate at a time when the member states are facing difficulties and having to make sacifices. secondly, the council considers that the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework (mff) should be respected. the council is particularly concerned about the european parliament’s idea of drastically reducing the margins available under the mff ceilings and to propose the use of the flexibility instrument for a number of headings, leaving no leeway to cope with unforeseen situations in 2014. to conclude, let me reiterate the council’s hope and conviction that the existing excellent climate of constructive interinstitutional cooperation will prevail during the rest of the budgetary procedure, leading to a mutually-satisfying agreement on the budget 2014. i share the view of ms jensen that we will be able to bridge the gap between our respective positions in order to adopt the 2014 budget in a timely manner for the benefit of the citizens of the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, we are discussing next year’s 2014 budget in a context that is not very favourable, and i can only agree with ms jensen that it would be better to negotiate next year, with the multiannual framework 2014-2020 as a stable point of reference – not only agreed on politically, but as legislation. as a point of detail, i would like to remind you that seven years ago, everything was done in may and june, leaving six months for the member states, the beneficiaries – all sorts of beneficiaries – to prepare the new generation of programmes. we are now at the end of october, and we still do not have the stable basis for the next seven years. it would also be better to discuss next year’s budget with the 2013 budget solved. already now, as you know, we are slowing down compensation due to cash-flow problems, and we need to take into account the fact that the necessary reinforcement of 3.9 % is not coming on time to call for money this year. therefore, i think parliament needs to respond. i very much welcome the fact that the only chance – i repeat, the only chance – to continue paying out this year is to go for the revenue side – that is, for draft budget no 6, which has already been agreed in the council, and i very much welcome the extraordinary effort of parliament to agree to it this week. that is the only way to avoid stopping payments this year. so the context is not very favourable; also, as has been mentioned, the ceilings for 2014 are not that good when it comes to accommodating all the needs of the european union. but this is the reality, so i very much welcome parliament’s reading; not only because it mainly restores our draft proposal for next year but also because it integrates the so-called amending letter which provides corrections to next year’s budget. i also welcome the efforts by parliament’s committee on budgetary affairs to restore the level of administrative expenditure. this is not for administration, it is for the proper and timely implementation of the operational programmes. this is generally reoriented, with the restoration of the draft budget towards growth opportunities – especially for the younger generation – and investment in growth, so this is the right direction. i see that it also has to do with mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for commitments of eur 274 million – more than the commission was asking for – and this is a fund especially for the most deprived people. the central issue, drawing on the lessons of the past and of this year’s budget, is the level of payments – a full amount of payments in order to compensate for what it should be obligatory to pay out in 2013. that is true, the ceiling level for the next year is eur 8 billion less than for this year, also accommodating the amending budget. we have an accumulation of problems resulting from artificial under-budgeting in previous years. it cannot continue. therefore, our proposal is to go up to the ceilings, and parliament also proposes to go beyond the ceiling in some cases, via the flexibility instrument. there is slight disagreement on the centralised agencies, as our proposal was in line with our commitment for all the institutions to cut the number of posts by 5 % in five years, and now i see an increase of almost 4 % for the decentralised agency. that is not quite in line with our commitment to cut, if we are growing. another legal concern is about the fund for european aid to the most deprived. i am not contesting the need for this. however, it should be done as part of the overall allocation to structural funding, so if we are increasing aid to deprived persons by eur 1 billion in this period in the future, that is at the cost of some lines in cohesion policy. i note also the transfer of appropriations for special representatives for common foreign and security policy to the section of the external action service. i think this is inconsistent with point 24 of the draft interinstitutional agreement. also, there is the transfer of pension funds from parliament for members of parliament to the commission. however, i see this as a problem of the overall institutional framework and the pension system of the institutions. everything will be done in more detail in our letter of execution, also our comments on pilots and preparatory actions. thank you for doing a lot of work before the holidays, which has made the evaluation much easier. now we need goodwill to properly shape the difficult 2014 budget, not forgetting that we still have some jobs to do regarding the overall framework for seven years and compensating for what is missing in this year’s 2013 budget.
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on foreign affairs has been concerned about the significant reduction of 10.5% in commitment appropriations and 8.2% in payment appropriations. we believe that these reductions in the preliminary draft budget are not in line with and are not compatible, firstly, with the amounts provided for in the multiannual financial framework and, secondly, with the ambitions set out in the lisbon treaty. in this connection, and in a very particular way, i would like to refer to the neighbourhood policy. we have important appointments, such as the next vilnius summit, and in that respect i think we should make a major effort. i would also like to mention the policy of the southern neighbourhood, with the challenges we have in relation to the countries of the arab spring, egypt, syria and the middle east peace process. at the same time, commissioner, we understand that the activities of the new european external action service must be adequately equipped. we therefore hope that in this budgetary debate, mr president, parliament will live up to its responsibilities and that we will appropriately equip the external dimension of our political project.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs jensen, for her work and effort in getting a common position from this parliament. the socialists have tabled almost 300 amendments and we had very clear objectives: to make the most of the budgetary tools available to increase the budget lines in those areas which we considered to be priority. innovation in smes, research and development, a programme to combat gender-based violence and a european programme to help the most disadvantaged have been lines which the socialist group has increased. and we have also paid particular attention, of course, to the youth employment initiative and to external action and development cooperation policy, increasing by eur 200 million the lines relating to decentralised cooperation, poverty reduction, humanitarian aid or aid to refugees. but as we have seen here, if there is any real consensus it is on the problem of payments which we are having at the moment and which we have dragged out for several years, because the council's attitude, frankly, is inexplicable. we have called it shortsighted, irrational and ineffective, but we no longer know what we have to do in this parliament to get the council to react. and because of the council's attitude we have to call an extraordinary committee meeting this week inexplicably to save in extremis from the suspension of payments to the european union. and this is no surprise. we have been warning the council that we have been dragging a payment problem along for the last few years, and that problem is not only not being solved but is becoming more serious. we started with a deficit of 11 billion, last year it was 16 billion and this year, according to the figures of the european commission, we are going to end up with a deficit of 20 billion. this is an untenable situation, and we ask the council to please react and put money on the table to pay for programmes that have already been implemented.
mr president, international trade can be a possibility and a way out of the crisis. that is what the commission, the member states and various reports we have discussed in this parliament have told us. we have added a number of trade-related lines, but not enough, because we have big challenges ahead, such as the us-china agreement, which is being sold to us as a possible way out of the crisis. but not only new agreements are needed, but also improvements to existing ones, particularly in relation to customs control, the fight against piracy and counterfeiting, aid to the ilo so that international agreements also support development aid. and i complain, as many members have done here, about the disappearance of small and mediumsized enterprises... (inaudible text) ...the crisis through smes and that, however, they are not budgeted.
mr president, tomorrow, with the vote on the budget amendments, we are entering a political period of great responsibility for the council and this parliament, a period of responsibility and, i hope, of fruitful conciliation. we need budgets for growth and employment, budgets which help to consolidate the structural reforms of the member states, which are in solidarity with the efforts and sacrifices being made to increase productivity and competitiveness, to achieve also what this parliament demands of the member states, which is macroeconomic balance in their accounts. we cannot, in the sixth year of the crisis, let anything go to waste that serves as a lever to consolidate and expand our industrial fabric, without which there can be no social and economic future for the european union. we cannot afford to let down the 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises that are waiting for an effective boost to fulfil their mission as entrepreneurs and job creators, nor the more than 24 million people who are looking for work. each member, each political group, each government has its task, but all with the same objective: to reach a budgetary agreement that meets the challenge of the times.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although it deals with a subject of great importance for european farmers, it constitutes legal recognition of the republic of kosovo. the republic was the product of an imperialist military intervention. the us imposed an artificial process of separation and independence on serbia to entrench its political and economic interests in the region. my position is strongly against this kind of intervention by us imperialism and therefore i do not recognize the republic of kosovo as a sovereign state but as an artificial protectorate created by the us. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the issue at stake: in the case of wine, the regulation established a global annual quota of 50 000 hl, which all balkan countries could have used after the exhaustion of their individual quotas established under the individual stabilisation and association agreements. the exception is kosovo, the only country with no such agreement and hence with no individual quota. the problem is, therefore, that as soon as other countries start using the global quota, they would soon fill it up, thus leaving kosovo deprived of the possibility to export duty-free to the eu. since kosovo has good export potential for its wine, the com proposes to allocate an individual quota for kosovo of 20,000 hl/year in the framework of regulation 1215/2009, which would be deducted from the global quota (reduced to 30,000 hl/y).
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this report because, although it is a matter of macrofinancial assistance, which i strongly opposed at the time, this vote concerns the procedural mechanisms for the final delivery of the assistance. as this is a macrofinancial assistance already agreed, it is not the task of this report, of a technical nature, to set any conditions for the assistance. the macrofinancial assistance granted is an attack on the sovereignty of the country, in the same way that the troika has struck at different countries in the european union. this aid includes the traditional package with the imf conditionality which requires the introduction of neoliberal policies and is an attack on the sovereignty of kyrgyzstan, but this vote is about technical aspects of aid already approved. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it increases the requirements imposed on companies in the sector in the development of this type of medical equipment. in vitro diagnostic medical devices encompass a wide range of devices that can pose risks to public health, from blood sugar tests to hiv tests. that is why this new regulation proposes a risk-based classification and imposes rules for producers to improve the information available to the consumer, as well as improving other aspects such as the protection of minors and disabled people, etc. i voted in favour of this report because the requirements imposed reduce the risks of this type of device.
in writing. − in favour. ivd medical devices are medical devices intended for diagnostic use outside the human body (in vitro) which may be in a laboratory or near the patient, for example, at the bedside. it covers a huge variety of tests such as a self-testing for blood sugar measuring, hiv tests and dna tests. ivd medical devices are products that can circulate freely in the common market. there are no national borders for these products in the european market. that is why it is an obligation for the european union to ensure the highest possible safety. the proposal is based on articles 114 and 168 of the treaty. article 114 calls for high levels of protection of human health. article 168(4) (c) gives an additional specific legal base.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it represents a step forward in protecting citizens against abuse and fraud in this area, such as defective silicone implants. the text adopted has, however, gaps and parts that could be improved, such as the one on the safety assessment of nanomaterials.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the regulation of medical devices. the pharmaceutical industry is one of the most dynamic sectors at international level and often develops products that pose risks to public health. this is evidenced by numerous scandals of pollution, disease and even deaths caused by the introduction of products on the market that endangered the lives of consumers of such products. the report proposes stricter regulation; only through greater public control of these products can the health risks to which these companies expose the public be reduced. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. implantable devices are not like medicines: when a serious incident occurs, it is not possible to just stop the treatment – the patient has to be operated on again. the recent scandals with faulty breast implants, hip replacements and other devices have underlined serious flaws in eu legislation on medical devices. the greens/efa supported the rapporteur, who pushed for a pre-market approval, but epp, alde and ecr were strictly against. faced with this political reality, we supported the stronger controls so as to have a better evaluation of high-risk devices before they are put on the market. we succeeded in getting our proposal that innovative high-risk devices should always be assessed against the existing reference treatment adopted. both of these provisions are crucial for ensuring that such devices are safe for public health and actually represent added therapeutic value. we were the driving force for restrictions of hazardous substances. however, the text adopted in envi is not consistent (scope of medical devices covered unnecessarily wide, phase-out time too long, very narrow definition of endocrine disrupters).
in writing. - i voted against this report because it allows this activity to continue outside the european borders. the recycling of ships is an activity with serious environmental consequences, the waste of which has been classified by the oecd as very hazardous. however, 90% of european ships are recycled in countries that lack environmental or labour legislation to protect the environment or workers from pollution. with this report the european union maintains its hypocritical position of banning the activity within the territory but allowing shipowners to dismantle ships at low cost in south asian countries that do not consider the activity as dangerous. we see that the concept of competitiveness which is demanded of the european shipbuilding industry is nothing more than the total lack of rights and impunity in other countries. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. i fully suport the proposals from the rapporteur, carl schlyter, from our group, who initially envisaged extending the scope of the regulation to all eu-owned ships, but had to look for other solutions to strengthen the commission proposal in light of the opinion of the legal service that the nationality of the ship-owner may not be relied upon as a criterion for the scope of the regulation. he suggested introducing the following key modifications to the commission proposal: a) a financial mechanism to finance environmentally sound ship recycling, b) an inventory of hazardous materials for all ships calling at eu ports, c) a ship recycling plan for all eu ships going for recycling or older than 20 years, to be approved by the competent authorities, d) more explicit requirements on ship recycling facilities, not least to exclude beaching, as well as auditing and regular inspection of these facilities, e) criminal sanctions for certain violations.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it introduces a neoliberal ideological bias into the indicators which european demographic statistics must develop. any progress or improvement in the production of european statistics implies an improvement in the information available and in scientific knowledge; however, this report introduces not only improvements but also impositions of policy criteria. for example, this report suggests the creation of the indicator 'demographic vulnerability index' in clear reference to the economic 'sustainability' of public pension systems. under the pretext of statistical formulation, the report aims to develop an indicator to justify cuts and austerity policy in the field of pensions. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. it is especially important to get data disaggregated by sex too. the strategic objective of the beijing platform for action (1995) provides a reference framework for the generation and dissemination of gender-disaggregated data and information, for planning and policy evaluation reasons.
in writing. - my vote on the report on the human rights situation in the sahel region is in favour. we are talking about one of the poorest regions in the world, with great challenges ahead in terms not only of human rights but also of democracy and conflict resolution between border countries. the problems of hunger and the existence of thousands of refugees from the conflicts taking place in the area are aggravated by the trafficking of people and weapons. in this report we ask the commission to take a long-term approach, because we are talking about improving daily life and ensuring that the rights of a group of countries that will reach 150 million inhabitants in 2040 are respected. it also pays particular attention to children, who are often used to participate in armed conflict, and to women, who are the main victims of violence, discrimination, physical insecurity, poverty and marginalization in the sahel.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it makes some improvements to the eu's position on certain conflicts, it welcomes the french intervention in mali. the report develops aspects that represent a step forward in the european union's position, improving the vision on the situation of women, access to natural resources, climate change, etc., but its most important advances are in the position on the western sahara conflict, where it calls for negotiation between morocco and the polisario front, recognizes western sahara as a non-self-governing territory and, therefore, pending decolonization, calls for the incorporation of human rights monitoring in minurso and urges morocco to immediately release all sahrawi political prisoners. however, i could not vote in favour of this report because it welcomes the french imperialist invasion of mali and because i believe that it does not sufficiently emphasize the moroccan occupation and the plundering of the natural resources of western sahara.
in writing. - abstentions from voting. the final text is very unbalanced. although some of the amendments tabled by several members of this house concerning the situation of the saharawi prisoners have been incorporated, others have also been adopted which greatly deteriorate the situation in the occupied territories.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it implies the implementation of a policy in the field of international cooperation which promotes participation and democracy. the report suggests that the european commission and the european external action service should implement the human rights approach and the involvement of civil society organisations in development processes in their work with third countries. the report also highlights many positive aspects of ensuring a development cooperation policy focused on the need for a development model based on decentralisation and local and territorial democracy of the communities concerned. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. local democratic governance, decentralisation and territorial development are increasingly high on the development agenda. however, both their definition and practice remain ‘work in progress’. they are, in fact, the result of different experiences that respond to particular political, cultural and historical backgrounds. the ep considers that the support to local governance, decentralisation and territorial development should be framed in a more ambitious policy dialogue with partner countries. it is particularly relevant that the commission and eeas undertake analysis of ‘political economy of decentralisation reforms’ and strengthen local actors’ capacities to influence and monitor decentralisation reform processes. for maximum impact of aid effectiveness and to strengthen local democracy, cooperation between las and csos is crucial at local level in territorial development.
in writing. − in favour. though, there is nothing new in the report: it is a concentration of many recommendations made in different reports on youth strategy, early school leaving, bologna process, modernising european higher education systems, volunteering, etc. the result is a remixed list of recommendations, which are in line with our own sensitivities and concerns in our group (societal development, youth strategy, balance between ‘human’ sciences and ‘hard’ sciences, social skills at same level, youth guarantee, quality education, but at times also trying hard to join all fronts (some articles are stronger than others in focusing on market needs to be better fulfilled). this shows only that the report doesn't achieve a good balance in drafting its objectives. the point on public-private partnerships remains ambiguous and imprecise enough to raise concerns as to the interference of businesses interests in the ‘education sector at all levels’ (art. 48).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a boost for the rule of law and the end of corruption in the candidate countries to join the european union. the report shows deep concern about institutional corruption and its relationship with organised crime networks in the balkan countries. the report proposes measures to effectively prosecute corruption cases, including those involving high-level officials. the need to assess the situation in relation to corruption is stressed, including civil society organisations that can participate in such assessments. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the importance of an independent judiciary, of the protection and promotion of fundamental rights and of an effective fight against corruption in strengthening the rule of law and democracy is unquestionable. the eu’s new negotiating approach, which firmly anchors these core areas at the heart of the accession process and includes the early opening of chapters 23 and 24 on the basis of clear and detailed action plans, stimulating the establishment of the necessary legislation and institutions, and solid track records of implementation, stresses the need for setting transparent and fair benchmarks for the entire process that can translate the criteria into concrete steps towards accession.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it represents a commitment to improving the safety of european patients when receiving treatment in a hospital. the report notes that many of the adverse events that occur when a patient is receiving treatment are preventable and that approximately 5% of patients treated in hospitals suffer from some healthcare-associated infection. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body of the person who is infected. it also introduces the need for patient empowerment in the face of problems that may arise during treatment or hospital stay. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it is committed to patient safety and to improving public health.
in writing. − in favour. access to safe healthcare is the cornerstone of a high-quality health system and is recognised as a fundamental right for european citizens by the eu and the european institutions. patients are therefore entitled to expect that every effort should be made to ensure their safety. there are substantial risks in the healthcare sector owing to the possibility that an incident in the course of the patient’s treatment unrelated to the condition being treated could cause serious harm, suffering, complications or even death. some such incidents are associated with the risks inherent in vital operations or drugs, but others are caused by avoidable medical errors or by shortcomings or deficiencies in treatment systems.
in writing. - i fully share the report's objectives of identifying the most common bad practices in the area of commercial communication and of pointing out a series of measures to be taken to combat these practices and to defend the consumer. i think that an important step has been taken and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to improve the control of misleading advertising practices and the protection of consumers against them. there are deceptive advertising practices used by companies to trap the funds of european citizens, who are left totally defenseless because states do not usually take measures to ensure consumer protection. companies take advantage of the small print to mislead consumers, in spain we have seen how thousands of people were deceived with preferential shares while the government allowed such deceptions. the text tabled in parliament cannot put an end to these practices, but it calls on the commission to take responsibility and ensure that consumers are protected against these practices. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. misleading marketing practices can take many forms, with the most prominent being misleading directory company schemes, in which a rogue company sends out forms inviting businesses to complete or update their business name and contact details, seemingly for free. signatories later discover that they have, in fact, unintentionally signed up to a contract, normally binding them for a minimum of three years, to be listed in a business directory at a yearly charge of up to eur 1000 or more. other misleading marketing practices include misleading payment forms disguised as an invoice for services that the trader has purportedly already ordered where in fact he has not, offers to extend internet domain names whereby a rogue trader provides false information and exercises psychological pressure in order to conclude a contract for a much higher price than when the registration would have been obtained through official providers, and offers to extend the protection of trademarks in other countries while such protection may only be granted by official bodies.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs sonia alfano on her successful presidency and also mr salvatore iacolino on his very accurate and thorough report. i would also like to congratulate all the authors of the thematic papers, with the exception of myself, who was the one who brought the ideas concerning the drug cartels and their relationship with organised crime. i have so much to say, mr president, that i will say very little. first, i think it is appropriate to take into account recommendations such as strengthening maritime cooperation as an instrument to eradicate trafficking in human beings, drugs and tobacco, as well as other illegal and counterfeit products. secondly, a matter of rabid current affairs. i am in favour of maintaining the tftp. yes, in favour of maintenance; with more controls, but in favour of maintenance. thirdly, i believe that cooperation with third countries should be strengthened in the fight against the illicit trafficking of organised crime and money laundering. i also believe that the role of liaison officers - a key figure in european and global security - needs to be improved, so that they can tackle all forms of crossborder crime. i would also like to stress to the commission the need to present a proposal for the harmonization of criminal legislation on money laundering; we also need to fight cybercrime effectively and decisively by strengthening the recently created ec3, which has a short budget. and finally, mr president, i think we should ask the european commission, which has shown so much effectiveness, to take all these recommendations into account when implementing the internal security strategy in the european union.
mr president, i join the expressions of support in advance for this report which we are going to vote on. it is a special mandate of this european parliament and it is the result of the work of the committee i chair, but it certainly owes a great deal to the impetus given to it by the chairman of the crim committee, mrs alfano, and the rapporteur, mr iacolino. the final report contains some recommendations already contained in the partial report, several of which are aimed at improving the european mandate for this parliament to act as a criminal legislator against organised crime, against money laundering from illicit business and against corruption, by harmonising the criminal response in common and minimum standards and establishing a common penology prohibiting the public tendering of any convicted person for acts of corruption. i think the first result of this report is that it has made this european parliament aware that we are not talking about an 'italian' problem, as has often been thought when we talk about the mafia and organised crime, but about a european problem, which runs through europe, which is a threat not only to the european social model, but also to economic growth and, more importantly, to the soundness of the rule of law and, of course, to democracy and the confidence of citizens in public institutions. that is why i also support in particular the recommendation to establish a special day, a european day for the victims of organised crime, and to ensure a common, forceful, repressive and criminal response, by acting as a european criminal legislator against all forms of corruption.
mr president, i would also like to thank mrs alfano for her presidency, mr iacolino for his report and, especially, mrs borselino for all the help and strength she has given from our group. i shall concentrate on the fight against trafficking in human beings, because the tremendous figures have already been mentioned, namely almost one million forced labourers in the european union, of whom a third are victims of sexual exploitation, but the other almost 600 000 are victims of forced labour. we must bear in mind that this is a crime which has been essentially european since enlargement and that it is one of the most lucrative forms of crime which must be tackled once and for all. that is why the 2011 directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and the strategy that the commissioner has put in place to eradicate it are so important, as is the work of europol - and we thank them, because they have certainly helped us a lot - and the coordinator for the fight against trafficking in human beings. but we need to maintain the crime classification, the data collection system, the observatory for the fight against human trafficking and also awareness campaigns against human trafficking. only with firm sentences and with the seized goods destined to help the victims can we continue to fight this traffic absolutely ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to raise my voice against the increase in international organized crime which we are suffering in europe and which is leading to human tragedies such as the one that took place on the island of lampedusa. we cannot forget that the proceeds of this crime amount to 25 billion euros, that there are more than 880 000 forced labourers within our borders and that more than 3 600 criminal organisations operate within the union. i thank mr iacolino for this initiative. i think we all do. and i would also add that no country can fight organised crime on its own, since it crosses our national borders. we must stand together, cooperate to eliminate tax havens, to abolish banking secrecy, to fight drug trafficking, to guarantee mutual recognition of judicial measures - which we discussed in a report i produced this spring - or, above all, to eradicate human trafficking and forced labour. i offer my cooperation and support in this initiative to mr iacolino and to all of you and to all the others who are pursuing this objective.
mr president, we are talking about crime here today and i think we cannot forget those who really suffer from it, who are the victims. i therefore have to express my deepest disagreement with the judgment of the european court of human rights, which obliges spain to release without delay an eta terrorist convicted of 24 murders and risks that very bloodthirsty criminals in prison today will ask for the same thing. this judicial decision has been taken in the name of human rights and i wonder: where are the human rights of the victims? why does justice seem to turn a blind eye to the most vulnerable? i feel shame and pity at a verdict that has not heard those who pleaded with us not to turn our backs on the victims. and i think this ruling is a step backwards in the confidence that citizens have in the european area of justice and security. and it can never - i repeat, never - be a fair decision, no matter where it comes from, no matter what court it comes from, when this decision makes the victims cry and makes their abusers be on the street enjoying a freedom they do not deserve.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the first action plan on e-justice was adopted in 2008 for the period from 2009 to 2013. it established the use of new technologies as a means of better rationalising and simplifying court procedures in the member states. its aim was to reduce procedural deadlines and operating costs for the benefit of citizens, businesses, practitioners and, in general, the administration of justice. there has been a clear shared commitment at both national and european level to work to implement the principles, objectives and means established by that action plan. i would like to highlight some of the more significant results. the first one was the creation of the e-justice portal. it was opened in july 2010 and should serve in future as a one-stop-shop for justice. it is available in all the official languages of the union and is free of charge. it contains a vast array of information in the area of justice. the council has adopted the european case law identifier. this system has been developed to facilitate the proper and unequivocal citation of judgments issued by european and national courts. a set of uniform metadata will improve search facilities for case law. much progress has been made in the area of videoconferencing. many member states have introduced videoconferencing systems to help accelerate judicial procedures and facilitate the hearings of witnesses or of the parties. significant work has been undertaken to interconnect certain member state registers in the field of justice. a pilot project was prepared on insolvency registers. in addition, work is under way to create a single point of access to member states’ land registers via the e-justice system. the council decided that the e-justice portal should incorporate the websites of the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters and that of the judicial atlas. the council also adopted a decision establishing cooperation with the european judicial network in criminal matters. this should ensure a more consistent approach and avoid overlaps. the e-codex project, which is led by a significant number of member states, aims at developing interoperable technical solutions for the cross-border exchange of judicial information. this will soon be incorporated into the e-justice system. these are just some of the positive results of the first action plan. there are a number of other initiatives in the area of e-justice which have been taken up and implemented in several member states. these results show that we are on the right track, but of course much remains to be done. implementation of the first action plan must continue, but examination is also under way of a new action plan for the period 2014-2018 on the basis of a draft action plan prepared by the presidency and in full cooperation with the commission. i would like to highlight some of the main objectives set out in this plan. first, we need to continue the work on the e-justice portal. it should be enriched with further information in the area of justice. secondly, access to courts and court procedures should form a core for strengthening e-justice in the future. member states should be encouraged to develop the possibility of making an e-application to the courts in cross-border situations, e-service of documents, e-taking of evidence, or e-payment of judicial costs. in addition, the e-justice system should create the conditions for e-mediation between member states, taking into account the legislation adopted at eu level and, in particular, online dispute resolution. thirdly, it is important to enhance communications between member state authorities in the field of justice. we need in particular to explore the possibility of creating a system for cooperation between the competent authorities in the field of legal aid. fourthly, work on the interconnection of registers should be continued. it should in particular be possible for all member states to have insolvency registers and for them to be interconnected through the e-justice system. this model could form the basis for interconnecting other registers of the member states. to achieve these objectives, we need to take a number of initiatives. we will need to harmonise – or at least to create – the technical conditions for the proper interoperability of technical communications between member states in the area of justice. e-justice stands to benefit from the broader work in this area in the field of e-government. this should allow for a better flow of information and better compatibility of judicial communication between member states. there are practical e-justice tools that should facilitate its application, such as a machine translation system that is sufficiently reliable. work should also be carried out on the court database, a european legal semantic web and standard multilingual forms. finally, there should be further efforts to integrate the websites of other relevant networks into the european e-justice system. we need to continue our efforts to ensure that in 2018 we are closer to achieving an operational and effective european e-justice system. we are counting on the involvement of the european parliament in this endeavour. we believe that the views of the european parliament are particularly important in this area, which affects the daily lives of all european citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the chairs of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs have put a question to the council precisely on the importance we attach to computerization, the digitisation of justice and judicial cooperation, to assess, firstly, what has been the performance of the action plan on e-justice from 2009 to 2013 and, secondly, what are the lessons we can draw for the preparation of the next action plan on e-justice 2014-2018; but, thirdly, especially, to know when you intend to submit to the judgment of this european parliament the next plan for the digitisation of justice, called e-justice, we give its importance to the electronic administrative character in the realization of a digital space of freedom, security and justice, because we strongly support the implementation of the first edition of the action plan on e-justice and judicial cooperation, which has been crucial in the implementation of the digital portal, in particular, for the improvement of the efficiency of judicial and administrative cooperation, and the transfer of documents between different judicial authorities, which has been crucial in the implementation of the digital portal, in the whole, and in the implementation of the digital cooperation. the justice scoreboard is also recognised as a fundamental criterion for the effectiveness of justice; i believe it is a fundamental instrument, particularly for strengthening mutual trust and recognition of judicial decisions between the judicial authorities of the member states. we therefore table a motion for a resolution which seeks to emphasise the importance of reducing costs, not only administrative but also procedural, through computerisation and the automatic exchange of judicial data - ecris and sis ii practices make this clear - and, above all, the importance of training the legal professions, not only lawyers but also the judiciary and the prosecution, in the use of digital tools, because otherwise such important cooperation instruments as the european arrest warrant may be hampered by the lack of specialised training and adequate training in the use of these computer tools by legal operators and the judiciary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to support this resolution, which consolidates the objective set out in the action plan on networked justice for 2009-2013. the aim was to make justice and the legal order more accessible to citizens and to improve mutual understanding between legal practitioners and administrations by providing electronic tools for information and cooperation. as a member of the committee on legal affairs and as rapporteur for the report on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, i can only applaud, support and appreciate the importance of the existence of a networked justice system in which all member states participate and collaborate. these networked justice systems not only allow greater access to legal and judicial information for all legal practitioners and citizens, but also facilitate and improve trust and mutual recognition of judicial decisions, reduce judicial and administrative costs and, thanks to initiatives such as this, we are on the way to achieving a true european legal culture.
on behalf of the s&d group. i do not entirely agree with my colleagues that we accepted at the time that parliament, as it has done in other appointments, had already passed us the hungarian member, the spanish member, etc. in other words, we had fights in which it was not clear that parliament was receiving all the necessary respect from the council. but in the case of the croatian member things have gone further, because, although we might agree that it is true that the council has full capacity to override the opinion of parliament, which is legal, but of course absolutely illegitimate, because it turns out that, in the case of the croatian member, this man lied to us. i mean, the problem is, he lied. regardless of what you think and the legality, he is a member who has lied in writing, saying that if he did not get the support of parliament he would resign. and then, by some subterfuge, it turns out he hasn't resigned. that is the problem we have, that we have a candidate, a future member of the court of auditors, who is also already sitting on the court of auditors, who has of course lied to this house in writing. and that's clear to us and let's see how we can clarify that. that is why we are asking the council to withdraw this appointment, which would be in the best interests of everyone, first of all of the court of auditors, the council and, of course, this parliament. and in future we will require that candidates have at least some notions of european governance, european institutional governance, because a candidate who does not respect and who clearly lies about the governance of the european institution, because we find it very difficult that he can be a good candidate for the court of auditors, which is a very good instrument and a functional body for parliament, which must continue to be respected.
mr president, we have been fighting for many years to make europe a true union of countries working together for the common good and not just for national interests, and we cannot afford to throw away what we have worked so hard to achieve. we have made important steps. the schengen area strengthens the free movement of citizens and helps to advance the community dimension by increasing cooperation between member states. the right to free movement is one of the european rights most valued by citizens and it is clear that mobility, within and across national borders, is necessary, both economically and for job creation. but we need to guarantee those people who are moving a number of basic requirements. we are working to improve the working conditions and safety of posted workers and we have adopted a report on pensions in which we stress the need to ensure that mobile workers acquire and retain their retirement rights within the european union market. the european union is not perfect, but it is in our hands to improve it. i hope that the directive will reduce the differences between labour markets and social security systems and also prevent existing fraud, such as what we call in spain medical tourism.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, commissioner, we are still having a credibility problem. for all the statements you make about interlocking, about linking our neighbourhood policy directly with human rights, the practice is dismal. i am referring to a part of the southern mediterranean. i will not go into the arab spring, which we have already discussed and criticized for how much we were oblivious to the pain that was being caused by keeping the association agreements intact. i am referring to israel and morocco. we have partnership agreements. in the case of morocco, an advanced statute. the united nations special envoy, christopher ross, was recently in the occupied zone of western sahara on the 18th, 19th and 20th, in el aaiún and smara. the occupied people have come out to defend their legitimate right to self-determination, to demand a referendum. it's been repressed. hundreds of people have been injured, arrested, including a human rights leader, brahim dahane, and i am sure that nothing will happen, despite the statement that neighbourhood agreements must be conditional on human rights. a fundamental right: the right to decolonization. it is the last territory in africa to be decolonized, and europeans have a lot to say about it because of the pain we have caused on the african continent. and yet, the right of self-determination is not even demanded. well, i'm very skeptical, what do you want me to say?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after congratulating the rapporteurs, i would like to remind you that the objectives of the european neighbourhood policy must be translated into greater levels of democracy, progress and stability in the countries closest to us. this morning we held the budget debate and we noted with concern the reduction in the amounts allocated in the 2014 budget to the neighbourhood policy, and this at a time when we are going to hold the vilnius summit. i would like to stress, commissioner, that all the political groups in this parliament, including my own, want this summit to be a success and i would like to know whether, at this stage, following the statement by the president of ukraine, progress has been made with regard to the signing of the association agreement with ukraine. as far as the southern neighbourhood is concerned, i believe that we have carried out successful exercises, such as the task forces in tunisia, egypt and jordan; in the case of egypt, it has failed for reasons beyond the control of the european union. but it would be useful if you could give this house a view of the possibilities that the holding of the geneva ii summit will bring in relation to the syrian case, the recent visit of your colleague, mrs ashton, to egypt and the prospects that the process of resuming peace negotiations in the middle east presents. i believe, commissioner, that we must not lose sight of the future and that we must proceed to carry out appropriate evaluation and controls in relation to the achievement of the objectives we seek to achieve with our neighbourhood policy, so that the efforts made by the european union, not only economically, not only financially, not only commercially, but in all respects, will be translated - as i said at the beginning of my speech - into greater levels of democracy, greater levels of stability and greater levels of progress for the countries in our immediate vicinity.
madam president, the southern neighbourhood must remain a priority for the european union, especially now that these countries are experiencing the effects of the arab spring. the situation in the southern neighbourhood is very heterogeneous. from the reformist, effective and stable way of morocco to the military intervention in egypt or the civil war in syria. in the face of this diversity of situations, some of which are tragic or disappointing, the european union cannot ignore this neighbourhood. the union must continue to assist these countries and their peoples politically and economically, on the basis and in accordance with the values, principles and interests which should govern our foreign policy. with sufficient funds, commissioner, with sufficient funds. we are bound to our neighbours not only by geography but also by many and varied ties of interest. and we must look to these countries for a shared future of peace, freedom and prosperity. finally, i should like to express my satisfaction that tomorrow a meeting of the so-called '5+5 dialogue' of the foreign ministers of the western mediterranean countries, focusing on economic cooperation, will be held in spain.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think what we have in front of us for discussion is a very important issue, because this is our opportunity to use the taxpayers’ money in the best way in order to go for sustainable and responsible fisheries. this is what our proposal aims to do; it is a great responsibility, and we should all keep it this way. because for me and for the commission, it was an honour to attend the discussions between parliament and the council and now to attend the trialogues in order to have a concrete conclusion about a new fisheries policy. the members of this house have voted with an admirable majority for a new fisheries policy, and now we are discussing together with the council how to move forward with it. so what i am asking from you now – and i am asking it very openly – is to decide, by means of your vote and your decisions, on the funding that can support this new policy which you have already decided on. we are not working here to create a fund from scratch. we have already taken, all together (parliament, the council and the commission), a decision for a new fisheries policy. what we have to do now is support it, but with taxpayers’ money. in the middle of an economic crisis, the way we are going to spend the taxpayers’ money is very important. that is why i think we have to pay attention to what you are going to decide and what all the institutions are going to decide afterwards. what is at stake here is almost eur 1 billion a year. i think that is a lot of money, and we need to have a serious discussion about it. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cadec, for his work, and i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the other members for what they have done. they have done a lot of work through the report of the committee on fisheries. they have also done a lot of work on amending the report. i welcome many of your proposals because many of them already support the key measures of the reform. you have in particular supported measures to improve the european control and inspection systems; you have supported measures on data collection, and you have supported the possibility of interrupting or suspending payments in the event that a member state does not comply with the rules of the common fisheries policy. so we are really going to have a strong instrument here, and i am grateful to you all for this decision. the commission would also like to have these elements further strengthened by, for example, providing for minimum amounts of money for data collection, control and enforcement. i also welcome very much some of the amendments and some ideas in mr cadec’s report, and i would like to thank him for that. for example, the amendment on support for young fishermen. this was a common position of the council and the commission, and we would very much like to see this support for young fishermen to enter the profession come into being. however, there are some amendments which would represent a major step back in reforming our policy, and let me be completely open in referring to this. this is the case with giving taxpayers’ money for new vessel construction. i would like to remind you that as long as a decade ago, the european institutions had decided to avoid that practice. now we are coming back and trying to reintroduce vessel construction, and this is something that does not make a lot of sense. i do not think such an amendment would be profitable either for the fishermen or for the stocks. it would be damaging for both of them, because such a measure goes against the basic principles of the reform that you – this house – supported just a few months ago. we voted for a new policy, so now it makes no sense to go back and undermine this policy – none at all. this is something which is very obvious. also, this vessel construction would inevitably increase fishing capacity, because new vessels are able to fish more, even if their engines are less powerful, so that this amendment would also crowd out money for more important objectives. we are going to spend taxpayers’ money – but in a more cautious way – on targets such as gear selectivity or training for our fishermen, or by giving more money to young fishermen to enter the profession. i agree with these targets, but to do all this we do not need to build new vessels. these are very good ideas about training fishermen, about young fishermen and how they are going to enter the profession. i very much support this. so this is my question, and i would like to put it to everybody: do you really want to spend european money on building up to 2 000 new vessels that could each cost up to eur 3 million? because this is the limit we can reach. not all the vessels will cost eur 3 million, but this is the target that is there. if we agree with these amendments, we may find that we are obliged afterwards to give up to eur 3 million. these are the calculations we have made. so i do not really think it makes sense. to be honest with you, i fully respect parliament – i have been a parliamentarian throughout my whole political life – but i think that, precisely because the commission respects this parliament, the commission needs an informed parliament, and i would like everybody to be informed. i wish i could have the possibility to call you one by one on the phone to inform you. unfortunately i do not – that is obvious – but i would have liked very much to inform everybody about this, because this is my responsibility. i have to draw your attention to what will happen if this amendment is adopted in the vote. finally, i understand that you are also going to decide about some other measures: scrapping or temporary cessation. my message is clear: if you are going to decide about this, it has to be capped, because this is the best way to spend our money. to cut a long story short, i hope we will cooperate. i will, of course, respect fully whatever you decide, as always. we are going to have trialogues, but what i would like to say is that you have already taken a decision, and i think that, for everybody’s sake, that should be respected.
opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - mr president, commissioner, the fund is part of the europe 2020 strategy, so it is important that it has a social dimension to improve employability and safety at work. i wanted to highlight several aspects. small-scale fishing, besides being less harmful to the marine environment, is more labour intensive. it is important to focus on this type of fishing, as it is key to the development of coastal areas and the local industrial and business fabric. secondly, the role of spouses is also essential, particularly the wives of fishermen, who will be able to benefit from training aid and participate in social dialogue. safety and health are also important: the risk of accidents in the fisheries sector is 2.4 times higher than the average for industrial sectors, and measures must be taken to improve it. finally, i think it is essential to stress the role of training, not only in promoting initial and lifelong learning but also, and this is essential, in facilitating diversification into other maritime sectors through alternatives such as eco-tourism.
opinion of the committee on regional development - mr president, i would like to reiterate my support for the maintenance of aid to adjust the fishing capacity of the fleet and to compensate for the economic cost in critical situations, such as the termination of fisheries agreements. i believe that aid for temporary and permanent stopping should be maintained, especially when it has been decided not to apply a system of transferable quota rights, which would have allowed a substantial improvement in the management of fisheries resources. the new fund should be endowed with support lines to facilitate fleet adaptation, once the system of transferable rights has been discarded. in this connection, i applaud my colleague and colleague, mr alain cadec, for having negotiated, within the european people's party, an amendment which reintroduces aid for the decommissioning of ships, in order to cope with the necessary reductions in fleet capacity. i also think it is very important to support the socioeconomic measures to support fishermen affected by the cessation of fishing activities, measures which are also included in the amendment tabled by my group in the framework of aid for permanent cessations.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the fund must provide budgetary cover to achieve the objectives we have already agreed on the common fisheries policy and the reformed maritime policy, which i can summarise in three general points: to contribute to the new requirements of the cfp, to promote sustainable and competitive fisheries and aquaculture and to promote the territorial development of areas dependent on fisheries. the new common fisheries policy sets new rules of the game for the fisheries sector, which must understand, accept and apply them. it is clear that this transition is an adjustment and that this requires the appropriate structural aid. the sector will have to comply with a zero-discharge policy and there will be greater regionalisation of the measures to be taken to meet the cfp objectives, all on the basis of a fishery in which marine resources are managed at levels above maximum sustainable yield. this is essential: no subsidies that contribute to overcapacity, no subsidies that support the sector solely through subsidies. in general, we can say that there is a balance between the number of ships and the availability of resources. however, there are fisheries where further reductions in fishing capacity are necessary. to this end, provision should be made, even if only temporarily, for the availability of aid for the permanent cessation of the fleet, commonly referred to as 'disposal aid', which is a highly helpful instrument for the achievement of the objectives of the cfp if the appropriate disposal plans are adopted. it is also the only tool in the whole fund which could help to reduce the fleet. in addition, incentives should be provided for the adoption of new fisheries management models, in line with the new cfp, which lead to good practices. i would also like to mention briefly aid for temporary standstill, since it is not lost on anyone that a multitude of unforeseen circumstances can occur affecting both the high-water fleet and the craft fleet. that is why i also say that sustainable and competitive fisheries and aquaculture must be promoted, including the processing and marketing sector, which is one of the sectors that provides the most employment and is not sufficiently recognised in the fund. i am glad, because i come from an ultraperipheral region, that the increase in the budgetary amount, which has been in place for a long time, since 1995, has been taken into account in this respect. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the green group, mr president, when this house voted on the reform of the fisheries policy - as the commissioner has very well recalled - it opened a door that was unprecedented at the time. he voted for sustainability and not for the interests of a part of the sector, a part of the fleet, which is also the most powerful. and this is what we have to rubber-stamp today. so we talked about policy and today we talk about the money that has to be used to implement and implement this policy. when we are adopting a text as important as the one on the european maritime and fisheries fund, we must be clear on at least three things in relation to what this money is and should be used for. firstly, it is clear that public aid must be used to encourage good practice and to provide us with a fleet that is responsible and of a size commensurate with the possibilities of the sea. and above all, it can in no way be used to finance the illicit and illegal practices that have occurred in recent years and which, moreover, have been carried out precisely with public money. this has happened and it must be stopped in a very sharp way. secondly, all the evidence, all the evidence, of economic theory shows that subsidizing the construction and renewal of the fleet leads to overcapacity. it is what we have been suffering from for the last few years and, indeed, as mr milana said, it is what we must break once and for all. we have the opportunity to do so now, and to do so we must not make the same mistake as we have historically made. we have the opportunity not to put more money into that excess capacity; on the contrary, we have the opportunity to find ways of adapting this capacity -- i insist -- to what is possible, to the reality that we have in the seas today. and finally, the third point which i think is fundamental: without control and without good scientific analysis we are not going to have a good fisheries policy. that's where we have to put the money. that is where we must put our resources and, above all, the political will to allocate priorities, both at the level of the states and, as we are now proposing, at the level of the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr ferreira, you know very well that we have defended and continue to defend precisely that part of the sector which acts responsibly and which, moreover, is the traditional or, if you like, artisanal or, if you like, small-scale part of the european fleet. and there are many ways that we can help with that. mr milana has raised some very interesting points from the point of view of the training of young people. we raise others. as we get the stocks of the seas back, this responsible fleet will be able to do its job much more effectively than it is doing now. it is not by making more ships that we are going to achieve this, it is by ensuring that these people and these vessels can carry on their business with full guarantees.
mr president, as the commissioner has said, this proposal for a new fisheries fund was put forward in parallel with the reform of the basic regulation, which originally contained an important innovation: the modification of the anachronistic and uneconomic system of conservation and management of resources. this change, in an already endemic context of fleets not being adapted to existing resources, would have allowed the sector to evolve towards models of greater economic efficiency and thus to make its profitability calculations and self-regulation without relying on public aid. in this context, i would have been in favour of eliminating most of the subsidies to the fleet, as you proposed in your first proposal. but since this change has not taken place, we have no choice but to finance the scrapping, because it is unthinkable that in the present situation a company should use its money to destroy itself. and i think that, among the whole panoply of measures proposed in this report, it is not right that it is the aid for the disposal of the fleet that is lacking, because if there is one thing on which we all seem to agree, it is that the fleet must be adapted to the resources, a phrase which is already a best seller in this house. that is why my group, together with the socialists and liberals, has tabled amendments in this respect and i hope that, in the same vein as the council has adopted in its common position, this parliament will be able to reintroduce aid for the scrapping of the fleet. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i have made it clear that, for me, the first aid needed for the fleet, that is, for the reduction of the fleet, now that the individual transferable rights, which could have led to a reduction of the fleet, have not been supported, is precisely scrapping. to me, it's the first and most important aid we need for the fleet. that's what i've always said and what i've always fought for. i don't get involved in all the other help. for me, the main and essential thing is the aid to the scrapping.
mr president, more than a year and a half ago we started working with the involvement of the sector, of various social and environmental actors, and i have never felt pressured or impressed. i would therefore like to say that if we are debating today the purchase or new acquisition of ships as a fundamental element, it is not because that was at some time a proposal by the spanish socialist delegation. we have indeed proposed that in an economic fund which is so diminished, which should be increased, more resources should be provided precisely to the great forgotten ones: small-scale coastal artisanal fishing, which takes the greatest care of the environment, which offers the greatest sustainability. and of course, we have to tackle the new ppc and for that we have to tackle something that we do not like and that is that it is going to have to act with the paralysis, whether total or partial. in addition, there is the issue of training, the employment of young people, the relegation of women, the great forgotten for 15 years of the resolutions of this house; their situation is not economically visible. these are our proposals, ladies and gentlemen, and not others that have been leaked to us.
madam president, the agenda of the next european council certainly has ambition. so much ambition that i find it unrealistic, because any of the issues on that agenda would deserve a monographic analysis. in addition, we shall be discussing lampedusa, a collective disaster which calls for action now and on three fronts: firstly, in the countries where the tragedy originated; secondly, on the networks of criminals who traffic in human beings; and thirdly, in the design of a common immigration and asylum policy, which should be the responsibility of the community institutions, that is to say, the commission, parliament and the council. i have little confidence, madam president, and i would like to say to the honourable member that i have little confidence in the european council, a body which was not in the plan of the founders and which should not be in the future of the european institutions, because the european council is the place where matters are not treated with the warmth of the community method but where they sleep the sleep of intergovernmental laziness.
madam president, as always, the agenda for the next council meeting is very full, but as always, it is repetitive. as always, it seems that we are about to make a final decision, but as always, we will return to the question of implementation at the next part-session. one example: the youth guarantee fund, in relation to a drama we have to deal with, which we have been talking about for months and months, but for which we have not yet put anything into practice. we're in the process of replacing bubbles. we've had the financial bubble and the housing bubble, which has led to a disastrous crisis, and now we're building a complacency bubble and an inequality bubble. self-pleasure. there is an avalanche of statements telling us that we are already out of the crisis, that things are going well. but the reality is that growth is zero or close to zero and that there is no indicator that is better now than before the crisis. we are told that there is money lurking, coming from everywhere. it comes from everywhere but nowhere except the stock market or speculative money. that money is missing in the productive economy in small and medium-sized enterprises. the stock market goes up, but so does unemployment. unemployment is rising all over europe. wages are falling and, at the same time, social benefits are falling. he also talked about an inequality bubble. why would you do that? because at the same time as the number of rich people, the number of millionaires in the european union, is increasing, poverty is doubling, and, moreover, inequality is not only spreading across europe, but it is unequal within europe. the latest eurostat data show that while in some countries, such as my own, spain, the inequality between the richest 20% of the population and the poorest 20% has increased by almost 30% since the start of the crisis, on average in the union it has increased by 4%. so a more unequal europe and more unequal among us.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we could look forward to the agenda. we want to deal with youth employment, but where are we today? we're at a dead end. you have spoken a lot about the youth employment initiative, which would be the solution to this problem. what are the means available to us? six billion euros! what are you talking about? this is very insufficient in the face of the reality of the problem, which is that today 22.9% of young people between 15 and 25 are unemployed, whether they are young people without qualifications or young graduates. and if we take the 15-30 age group, we double the number of young people who are unemployed. there is a generation that is in despair and it is not the youth employment initiative, which is the real answer, as we are led to believe, but the youth guarantee. what is the youth guarantee based on? it is based on the european social fund, but we are having difficulty in obtaining the necessary funds for this fund. i would also add that in this reflection on youth employment, you must not forget that young women are incredibly behind men in terms of hiring. i come back to the european social fund. it is the essence of our social cohesion tool. but you do not want to guarantee a sufficient share of the european social fund to meet this need for human capital. i'm mad at you! you have to make an effort!
madam president, we have come a long way since the fear of the disappearance of the euro and the bankruptcy of several member states was expressed just over a year ago. the financial turbulence of the past year is behind us and the reforms undertaken are the solid foundations that guarantee a sustainable exit from the crisis. however, ladies and gentlemen, we are now in a fragile situation. financial stability still needs to be ensured. the european central bank's role as the single supervisor will be decisive in putting an end to doubts about our banking system. in order to ensure that this process is carried out safely, the necessary safety nets must be provided for at both national and european level to cover any capital needs that may arise. these exercises should be seen as an opportunity rather than a threat. spain, ladies and gentlemen, is a good example of this. the spanish financial system has already undergone an unprecedented exercise in transparency and analysis. the reform of the spanish financial sector has been set as a model of transparency and efficiency. the success of the programme of financial assistance to the spanish banking sector will lead to its closure without the need for any extension or accompanying measures. today our banking sector is in a better position than many european banks, not only in our opinion but also in the opinion of qualified and rigorous observers. what's the matter? mr barroso has said that what is lacking are measures to revive credit. we must move from macroeconomics to microeconomics. entrepreneurs need to find confidence, to find resources, to gamble, to take risks, to create wealth, which is the only way, of course, to create jobs and is the only way to create welfare for states.
mr president, i have asked to speak in this debate to express my protest, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, at the wording of paragraph 39 of the motion for a resolution, not only because it is lukewarm, pathetically inexpressive, and because it fails to mention what needs to be done, namely to strengthen cooperation with the countries of origin, to strengthen, above all, the saving of lives at sea and to apply at once the solidarity clause in the treaty on european union on integrated border management, but also because it postpones the decision on the new strategic orientation and the planning of the definition of asylum and refuge policy until june 2014, that is, exactly in the time between the expiry of the mandate of this european parliament and the constitution of the european parliament that will come after the elections in may 2014, in order to avoid the definition of that european policy and to avoid the mandate of the european parliament, and to hear precisely the views of the citizens, so that the mandate of the european union can be defined and the mandate of the european parliament can be heard in accordance with articles 10 and 11. it is simply unacceptable.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to take part in this debate on the european semester. it is very timely, given that we are about to embark on the next european semester cycle in a few weeks’ time when the commission publishes the annual growth survey. this semester is of growing importance. even though the next semester is, technically speaking, the 2014 semester, work will begin this autumn, and this debate is also particularly valuable, given the work we have done on the council side on the lessons learnt from the 2013 semester. yesterday’s general affairs council concluded our evaluation phase. it endorsed the presidency synthesis report on lessons learnt from 2013 and the recommendations for 2014 and future european semester cycles. i would like to take this opportunity to present the key elements of this report. the main message is that the council considers the 2013 semester to have been successful. it was in many respects an improvement compared to its predecessors, and this was mainly because it was based on a more substantial and continuous dialogue between the commission and the member states, and also between them and the parliaments at european and national level – and other stakeholders, of course. effective dialogue is key to a shared understanding of the challenges, enhanced ownership of the recommendations and, through that, better implementation. the 2013 semester was more european, more multilateral in character. member states took a more active interest in the situation and in the recommendations of the other member states. this peer review and peer pressure should lead to better implementation. we have made good progress towards a better sectoral balance. in recent years we have seen a steady increase in the number of employment and social recommendations in the semester framework. there has also been more focus on the single market, starting with the annual report on the single market that the commission presented together with the annual growth survey for the first time last year. we are therefore seeing greater involvement of a wider range of stakeholders in the member states. at the same time, it is important that country-specific recommendations remain focused on the main objectives of growth and jobs. in this respect, a good and focused balance between macro-economic, micro-economic, employment and social aspects is essential for a semester to contribute to the achievement of these objectives. on some, there was good progress, but our lesson has been learnt: the process made it clear that we cannot rest on our laurels, and further positive refinements can be made. there is still more that can and should be done. we must use the european semester to the full to enable europe to put the crisis behind us. there is a long way to go. there is scope for improving the national ownership and implementation rate of country-specific recommendations. many of the reforms are of a long-term nature and require proper preparation together with national stakeholders. europe cannot afford to be complacent when the first weak signs of economic recovery are emerging. at european level, the semester should be further geared towards implementation of the recommendations. this could be achieved through better dialogue, improving the quality of the recommendations and improving the monitoring by the council of implementation at national level. during the 2014 semester, implementation will also be helped by the new tools following the ‘two-pack’ and, hopefully, by the new mff. the ‘two-pack’ will be key to improving surveillance and coordination of euro area member states’ economic and budgetary planning processes. the draft budgets were submitted to the commission on 15 october. they will now be scrutinised by the commission in the light of the country-specific recommendations, the stability and growth pact and the excessive deficit procedure targets for the country concerned. if they do not comply with the stability and growth pact, the member state concerned can be asked to submit a revised plan. before closing, i would like to commend you for your impressive report on the 2013 semester. i was glad to know that we largely agreed on the key issues. we are making progress towards a semester that better captures the employment, social and micro-economic aspects of reforms without undermining efforts to strengthen public finances. i also agree with your approach to competitiveness, which calls for simultaneous action on industrial policy, financing of the economy, innovation, energy, education and other fronts. these are all issues which we on the council side have discussed and continue to work on. i would like to refer specifically to our effort under the competitiveness council on the framework conditions for a competitive european industry. the european semester is a tool to facilitate the necessary reforms at national level. at eu level we have to keep refining this tool so that it fulfils its purpose. at the same time, as co-legislators, we have to continue to work to conclude the priority files for jobs and growth before the end of this parliamentary cycle.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, elisa ferreira, and all the other members involved for their work on this report, which is a timely and important contribution to the debate about economic governance in the european union. i am glad to see that we agree that this year’s european semester has been a clear improvement compared to the previous ones and that you appreciate the stronger degree of country-specificity and concrete detail in the recommendations. this is encouraging, and it confirms that we are on the right track in reinforcing our economic governance for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation. today, europe is at a turning point in economic terms. we have a subdued, modest recovery under way this year and will be moving onto a stronger footing next year when we also expect better improvements in employment, which is of course a critical yardstick for the performance of our economy. together with the enhanced credibility of member states’ fiscal policies and the decisive action to stabilise finance and bond markets by the european central bank, strengthened economic governance has been one of the key factors which have contributed to this economic recovery. we are not, of course, out of the woods yet, and there are several things that will be decisive for sustained recovery to which we have to commit ourselves. firstly, it is essential that the eu member states stay the course of economic reform. we recommended to several member states that they should continue with their consistent but somewhat slower pace of fiscal consolidation on condition that they commit themselves to substantial economic reforms. indeed, we cannot afford to scale back the level of ambition for reforming europe and our economies, and we cannot go back to business as usual. the commission therefore fully agrees with your report on the paramount importance of the monitoring and implementation of the country-specific recommendations. we will present our assessment on progress in both fiscal policy and structural reforms in mid-november, in a few weeks’ time. i am pleased that i will meet the committee on economic and monetary affairs soon afterwards to report on that, and i count on your support as regards our assessment. secondly, while we in the past few years have taken a quantum leap in reinforcing economic governance, there is still much room for further progress. we need to further strengthen the economic pillar of the economic and monetary union, which requires ensuring that there is also a strong social dimension in our policies. likewise, a key priority is maintaining the momentum for the completion of the banking union, as we discussed in the previous debate on the european council this week. to this end, i count on the support of parliament in finding a solid and timely agreement on the single resolution mechanism so that we can conclude the work on this before the lithuanian presidency comes to a close at the end of this year. thirdly, we need to complete the repair of the banking system and financial industry in europe in order to restore confidence and ensure that households and businesses – and especially smes – have access to finance for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation. the banking union is one key objective, but the current gaps in private sector lending also need to be bridged, including by other players such as the european investment bank. to conclude, i see much common ground between your report and the views of the commission. this is good news for the community method, which merits being strongly defended against intergovernmental temporary solutions. the community method is the way of democratic governance that makes the european union work and deliver, and i know that i can count on your continued support to this effect. thank you for your attention, and i look forward to having a constructive and productive debate with you here today.
opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - mr president, the economic crisis has put the sustainability of the european union as a whole in question, raising fears of the disappearance of the euro and the bankruptcy of several states. thanks to fiscal consolidation efforts, these doubts have been dispelled and the sustainability of public accounts and the maintenance of the welfare system have been guaranteed. the improvement of markets and the reforms undertaken must now be translated into the real economy. in my country - spain - these measures are beginning to bear fruit. we call for the european semester to focus on the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and we need to improve the labour market situation. this requires further reforms of labour markets to increase internal and external flexibility, improve adaptability to change, reduce segmentation and facilitate career transition. credit needs to flow again, particularly to smes and entrepreneurs.
mr president, mr rehn, what did you want to sell us today? the recovery? the success of your strategy? more words of complacency, mr rehn, which are overtaken by a reality that grows stronger every year. because, commissioner, you are starting to create a discourse of recovery on the basis of growth data that we have been promised for some time. or is it not true, mr rehn, that you, two years ago, told us that in 2012 we would grow by 0.4% when we fell back into recession? or is it not true that he also promised growth of 1.4% this year when, in reality, we are going to do so at three times the rate? or is it not true that he has not been right in any of his forecasts for italy, greece, spain or portugal when he denied the effects of tax multipliers? no, mr. rehn, you cannot lead a recovery speech because you lead the face of economic and social failure. because the important thing, mr rehn, is not just that the growth rate is weaker and slower than he had promised; the important thing is all that we are leaving in the way of achieving that growth by applying his country-specific recommendations, that double mantra of austerity and structural reforms. because yes, mr. rehn, the stock markets go up but the workers' wages go down. trade deficits are falling, but economic and social disparities are increasing. we are winning competitively, but not because we are more innovative or more productive, but because we are collapsing our social model. and yes, mr rehn, risk premiums are falling but the levels of euroscepticism and euro-phobia are undoubtedly increasing. you, mr rehn, have not once again spoken to us about social indicators or automatic european stabilizers or the damage that labour reforms have done to the quality of employment or to social benefits. it has not at any time spoken to us of the economic exile in which millions of young europeans live. the commission has not spoken of the real consequences...
mr president, after five years of economic crisis we are beginning to see positive signs in our economy. this is due to the major reform processes undertaken by the member states and also to the fiscal consolidation processes. this has created a trust that didn't exist two years ago. and this confidence is also due to the fact that we have laid the foundations for a genuine economic and monetary union. that is why this european semester report is so important and i would like to highlight the work of the rapporteur, elisa ferreira, the alternative rapporteurs and the european commission. but this confidence is also due to the banking union, which will help to defragment the financial markets and to ensure that credit reaches small and mediumsized enterprises, because without credit the economic recovery will not be consolidated. we have to keep working. it was good news that the council approved the single supervisory mechanism, but we have to continue to work on the single resolution mechanism. in addition, as this house has stressed, greater democratic legitimacy is also needed throughout the process. and finally, i would also like to stress the need to adopt active policies to combat youth unemployment, the scourge that is plaguing many countries in europe.
the vote was not clear, i ask you to take it back, because it was a bit confusing.
madam president, there is an oral amendment tabled by the s&d group: it is no 570, concerning the art of fishing for oil.
madam president, this is a matter of order. an oral amendment was voted on in the wrong place. we were not talking at the time about that amendment. the oral amendment was not to amendment no 595, which is what we were going to vote on now, but to amendments subsequent to it. it is the amendment to article 3 (2) after point 18. that is when the oral amendment will be tabled and we will have to decide whether or not to vote, not at this moment, which has nothing to do with this amendment.
madam president, i agree with mr weber's reasoning, among others, because there is still time to be able to make a joint resolution which reflects the general feeling of the house. and it is still dependent on us finishing the work of the european commission, the research work of the committee of parliament and also the powerful, unequivocally clear work of mr moraes. that's why, madam president, i think it's better to have a common voice, and not a partial voice, before we go to washington on the 28th. and so i think we can give ourselves a wider negotiating margin, probably, perhaps, until the november part-session.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains an approach aimed at preventing the activity of methamphetamine producers, it does not include norephedrine. the report focuses on the control of medicines containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, components used in the manufacture of methamphetamine. it proposes lists of medicines and better control systems for them. methamphetamine is wreaking havoc in many working class areas of the european union and it is essential to pursue the activities of the producers of this type of substance by controlling the supply of its components. however, excluding norephedrine, which is currently being used in production, means that this initiative will not be as effective as possible. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − against. greens in committee supported the original line of the com to react to the requests of the who and create additional measures for the control of trade flows in medicines containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine. however, we are against the unlimited extension of the control of the trade in medicines for a number of reasons. medicines by and large serve health purposes and not illicit drug production purposes. any addition of medicines to lists of controlled items need to be carried out carefully and proportionally. in the past, we have witnessed the licit trade in medicines being prevented under suspicion that the receiving country was working on the manufacture of generics. any powers of given to member states to seize and detain shipments simply because ‘sufficient evidence’ of diversion is available could be easily misused for other purposes. giving member states the right to seize shipments under mere suspicion would constitute a return to pre-lisbon treaty times. fighting organised drug-related crime should primarily focus on illicit money transfers and consumer information. the administrative costs of monitoring mechanisms could be considerable.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it does not involve sufficiently forceful action to have an effect on trade in substances potentially used for the manufacture of narcotics. the report draws attention to the problem of chemicals traded by the various european industries and their potential uses in the manufacture of narcotics. but it only proposes the creation of a database on what these products are, a new database that has no real effect on the traffic of these products. we believe that more coercive measures are needed to impose real control. i have voted against this report because i do not think it increases the actual control of these substances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it improves transparency and access to information on the functioning of the judicial institutions in the member states of the european union. the member states' justice administrations often lack the transparency needed to ensure the participation of all citizens. in the face of the collapse of traditional systems, which are running into alarming delays, e-justice systems should serve to allow greater access to justice for european citizens and to enable them to defend their rights in a more agile and adapted way to new technologies. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. joint juri-libe initiative on the e-justice portal launched in 2010 for enabling greater access to legal and judicial information, and to judicial and administrative proceedings, for both citizens and practitioners. greens expect procedure rights to be guaranteed through this process.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam vice-president/high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate mr brok, the rapporteur, on a balanced report which, without exalting lights or hiding shadows, gives an accurate picture of the state of the common foreign and security policy. positive aspects: the presence in ukraine, the nuclear negotiations with iran, the ability to talk to egypt, the task forces in tunisia, egypt, jordan and now, as we have recently been told, myanmar and, of course, the humanitarian aid to syria. the problem, mrs ashton, is that we often give the impression that we are more like a sort of international red cross, which is only there to sign the cheque for the great international tragedies, rather than having a proactive and preventive capacity. i think that, for the moment, we are reacting rather than anticipating events. mr president, the european union is a large market of over 500 million consumers, 300 million of whom use the same currency. we are the world's leading importer and exporter of goods and services and the leading donor of humanitarian aid and it is clear that we must aspire to weigh in on the international scene in terms of our economic, commercial, financial and industrial weight. and that is why, madam high representative, this parliament in general and my group in particular have been supporting you in the area of our capacities, as well as the european external action service - we have just heard the budgetary colleague speak - we have also supported them on the budgetary aspects and i am glad that you have acknowledged this in your statement at the beginning. but, as the rapporteur says in his report, we must defend our interests effectively and we must affirm our values and we must also do something that we in this parliament tend to neglect, namely to ask the member states to take a constructive attitude when coordinating the european union's position in international bodies. only in this way can we build a powerful europe and be a factor of stability in the world, in a globalised world in which the old motto of the roman empire that unity makes strength is truer than ever and in which unilateralism, even that of the most prosperous or the most powerful, is today, madam high representative, an impossible dream. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i would like to tell you, my dear colleague, that by his speech man is superior to the animal, but by his silence he surpasses himself. you have missed an excellent opportunity to overcome yourself - which is not very difficult - and i want to tell you that gibraltar is the last colony that exists in the territory of the european union and that it is an anachronism for a colony of one member state to exist within the territory of another member state.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, you know, and mrs ashton and mr brok in particular, that my group has put forward a minority view because we do not share - and we do so year after year - the current security system, which in our view makes the world more insecure. we would like to admit that we are wrong and that, therefore, year after year, the world is safer, there are fewer conflicts and international law and the un charter prevail in international relations. unfortunately, that is not the case. and that's why we've put forward this minority opinion. we believe that it is wrong for the european union to base its security on the atlantic link, namely nato and the american bases deployed in the european union; a mistake because nato has adopted, since 1999 and repeatedly, a strategic concept that allows it to intervene outside the united nations charter, the express mandate that the security council must authorize the use of force. from our point of view this is a leap backwards in civilization. i think that after the first and second world wars we should have learned that the use of force must always be in accordance with this charter of the united nations. and therefore, the values of the american administration are not our values. the us administration is carrying out extrajudicial executions. mr. president, i thought i had a minute and a half. - i know. well, i'm sorry, i'm sorry. i was just...
yes, my good friend, i think it is in order. (applause)
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate elmar brok on his report, an excellent analysis of the european union's foreign policy. i believe, as does mr brok, that an active, effective and coherent european foreign and security policy is necessary. in this multipolar, changing and global world, we are stronger together than we are apart. but this european policy requires the political will to act together, as well as the means and leadership of the bodies created by the lisbon treaty, and these are the issues on which mr brok's report focuses. i would like to stress the importance of close relations with the united states. i regret that the annual eu-us summit has not yet taken place and that the climate of relations is somewhat affected by the revelations of the so-called 'snowden case', but the most important strategic relationship the european union has is with the united states. the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment agreement also provide an important opportunity to strengthen this relationship. i would also like to see us in the future sharing a broader perspective of transatlantic cooperation, including in certain areas the countries of latin america and even the atlantic coast of africa. ladies and gentlemen, in this world not without risks, in which the rise of the asia-pacific region is a major factor in changing international geopolitics - and i am referring, for example, to the turn of the united states towards asia - it is also necessary to deepen european security and defence policy. events in areas as close to europe as libya and mali show that foreign policy still needs instruments of defence. the necessary fiscal consolidation must not obscure this truth and i therefore welcome the fact that defence policy will be the subject of the next european council in december.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the maldives (2013/2895 ((rsp)). i am told that mrs ashton is obliged to leave us and that she has delegated it to mr leškevičius, who will therefore be the one to put the matter before the house and close the debate. i would also like to inform everyone that we will not be applying the 'catch the eye' procedure in this debate, nor the 'blue card' procedure, for reasons of time.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking catherine trautmann, like my colleagues, for her report. as we all know, she is an extraordinary expert on the subject, since she was also the rapporteur for the directive on this subject five years ago. i think that, as she says, a review is necessary. i also believe that the review - as the commissioner said - has its deadlines and that - as someone said - in the digital world there is no yesterday, there is no today, there is only tomorrow. and so we must always look to the future in that direction, taking into account the circumstances of this sector in which we are working, and we must therefore combine the assessment of what is happening with the standards we have with the new problems that are emerging. and in that sense i think that the commission's proposal, which we have discussed many times, and i myself have said it, is contextualised. it could have been done earlier, probably without any problems; we would have gained time, but the circumstances are what they are. and in this parliament, particularly in the committee on industry, research and energy, we have already discussed this subject. we are determined to go on. to go ahead means that we can get a position adopted in this parliament, which of course cannot be negotiated with the council in this parliament, because there is no time for that, but that does not matter, because the important thing is to establish a position and then be able to negotiate with the council. and one more thing: i will not go into each of the issues specifically, but in terms of time, imagine that we tell the european citizens that in seven months we do not have time to fix a position of parliament. it would be a bit ridiculous. we're talking about issues we've been debating for many years. we didn't start from scratch on spectrum, or roaming, or neutrality, or anything. i am talking about matters which have already been the subject of much debate, and it is now up to parliament to give a new impetus so that what we decide is really effective. that is where i think we have to contribute to what the commission says.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by referring to the general strike taking place in my country, spain, in defence of public education, against a law the wert law which calls public education in my country into question. and in connection with the subject of this debate, my group is particularly concerned about everything relating to european production, as well as the defence of small and mediumsized production, of cooperatives. we believe that there is a concentration in large companies which puts european production at risk. this is the case, for example, of the garcía carrión wineries in my country, the first winery in europe and the fourth in the world, which imported 17 million litres of wine from chile in january. 17 million people. of course, it puts national production, european production, small and medium-sized production at risk; and, moreover, these concentrations of production receive a very important part of the cap money. the concentration of production is therefore a danger, a danger we warn this house against.
mr president, i also begin my speech by paying tribute to the thousands of men and women, boys and girls, who are demonstrating today in spain against cuts and for the right to public education. as regards the wine sector, i think we all agreed today in this debate that we are talking about one of the most competitive sectors of our agri-food industry and that, although it has been subject to certain uncertainties in the context of this whole process of debate on the cap and therefore on the single cmo, today we can be satisfied with the result of this work of cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission's high level group, which i believe has ended up finding a solution that is beneficial to the sector, an instrument that guarantees the stability of a sector as important as this one we are talking about. but i also wanted to ask the commissioner a question, because at the moment there are certain areas in this sector where there is overproduction and i wanted to know whether the commission has provided any instruments to deal with a possible destabilising situation in the sector in certain areas.
mr president, commissioner, the system of aid for the european wine sector has undergone major changes in recent years following the reform adopted in 2008. this reform ended the intervention system and meant that some countries, such as spain, lost a considerable amount of aid to the sector. fortunately, with the support of parliament, the decision to liberalise plantations has been reviewed and a production control regime will be maintained until 2030 through a new authorisation system which will replace the plantation rights-based system. i think it is still too early to know the outcome of the changes introduced by the 2008 reform and, moreover, the sector must prepare for this situation which - as the commissioner has said - will be created from 2016 with the introduction of the authorisation system. i believe that the quality policy we have today must be maintained in future. commissioner, at the moment the european wine sector is functioning well despite the crisis. i therefore think it would be a mistake to change a policy which is currently producing positive results.
mr president, the rapporteur, mr brok, seems to have negotiated with the various political groups an oral amendment which they have on the voting list and which i shall read quickly: 'calls, as a contribution to this debate, for the european council in december to further elaborate on the european global strategy initiative. " i 'm not
in writing. - i voted against this draft budget because it implies the implementation of the austerity policy at the level of the european institutions. in a context of crisis, and in the face of the evidence of the austerity policy implemented in the countries of southern europe, the austerity policy is being the mechanism for the destruction of the welfare state; finance capital is the only beneficiary of this destruction. the budget adopted accepts the cuts proposed by the council, except for some items which are even increased, including the item to allocate more funds to frontex. parliament approves more funding for the walls of fortress europe and less for the interior. this is the 'austerity' of the european economy in the name of financial interests. that is why i voted against this draft budget.
in writing. − the european parliament has adopted a responsible budget for 2014 that honours our values of solidarity and our commitments to developing countries. with its adopted position, the european parliament has strongly rejected the radical cuts proposed by the conservative majority of the members states and the european commission. we have ensured sufficient funding levels for the development cooperation instrument, the humanitarian aid budget lines and the emergency aid reserve, as well as for the eidhr, which supports our increasingly human rights-based approach to development cooperation. an increase of eur 200 million in respect of last year's budget for the external action of the european union, especially as regards development cooperation and humanitarian aid, is not a waste of resources, but an investment in the world's future. we will be able to help more than 150 million people in syria, haiti, egypt, latin america, africa and asia. the european parliament will keep fighting for a progressive europe, the one i believe in, the europe that we all pursue, a europe that does not turn its back on those in greatest need and on the challenges of eradicating poverty and inequality.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it approves the draft budget for the financial year 2014 which will lead to a serious reduction in programmes and projects that are key to boosting growth on the continent. the report contains all the opinions that parliament's various committees have issued to evaluate the budget, opinions which are very favourable in general, where the majority parties in parliament have shown their commitment to obeying everything that the council of the european union requires of the majority parliamentary groups. political groups participating in most of the governments which make up the council and whose differences are merely temporary. that is why i have voted again against the 'austerity' in this report.
in writing. - abstentions from voting. the european parliament is proposing an eu budget for 2014 of €142.6 billion in commitment appropriations (planned expenditure) and €136.1 billion in payment appropriations (actual expenditure). these amounts represent a reduction of 8 100 million and 4 300 million respectively compared with this year's budget. the council had proposed a total of 141 800 million in commitment appropriations and 134 800 million in payment appropriations, which is a difference with the commission's draft budget of 240 million and 1 060 million respectively. meps have followed the budget committee's recommendations to curb cuts in areas crucial for growth, such as research, unemployment (including youth unemployment), entrepreneurship and the digital agenda. the council suggested in july that these items be reduced by 629 million, while the members are proposing that they be increased by 34 million. however, there have been a number of worrying amendments, such as the strengthening of frontex.
in writing. - amendment no 47: i vote against because what is proposed is not 'radical changes' to the cap and the cfp but rather their current essential aims. amendment no 48: i vote against because the wording of the amendment is too vague. amendment no 53: i agree that 'these kinds of events [the recent ones in lampedusa] are absolutely unacceptable', but it cannot be said that community funding for programmes such as frontex and the european return fund is intensifying the incidence and scale of these disasters and catastrophes. amendment no 15: i am voting against because the concern expressed in the amendment is already reflected in many other points in this budget. amendment no 66: i have already expressed my concern about this matter in other explanations of vote and my wish that general expenditure should be subject to greater transparency and greater accountability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to address a historical shortage of comparable data in the sector, which would allow an analysis of the reality of the sector in the different member states. the report includes aspects essential for the correct collection and sharing of data; it also seeks to involve small fishermen in the collection of data. this acknowledges the multi-functionality of the fishing activity and encourages the financing of activities that serve to collect data. the report calls for the responsibility of member states to take appropriate data and information on their fisheries resources and to submit them to protocols which allow comparison of these data with those of other member states. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. in august 2012 the commission submitted the green paper on ‘marine knowledge 2020: from seabed mapping to ocean forecasting’, as part of the action being taken to promote, develop, and expand the ‘blue economy’. the blue economy will serve to meet the europe 2020 strategyʼs targets as regards the sea, combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation to achieve smart, sustainable, and inclusive growth. with that end in view, a seamless multi-resolution digital seabed map of european waters is to be produced by 2020. this is an ambitious, wide-ranging, multidisciplinary project intended to make information available to a wide variety of stakeholders interested in ocean data, whether representing public bodies, industry, education, research or civil society. digital mapping of this kind encompasses several areas, including information on seabed topography, geology, habitats and ecosystems, and on human activities. data will record the physical, chemical and biological state of the overlying water column, and oceanographic forecasts will be made.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it does not call into question the international trade rules imposed by the world trade organisation. although the report proposes operating rules to protect the interests of the member states in the event of unilateral action, we cannot share a system of regulation of international trade which is illegitimate. the current rules governing international trade are imposed by the large countries, which can influence the trade policies of the smaller ones. we live in an international trading system inherited from imperialism where the first world continues to import natural resources from impoverished countries without offering anything in return. that is why i voted against this report.
mr president, as i said in my speech, it is very important for the spanish delegation that aid be maintained to adjust the fishing capacity of the fleet and to compensate for the economic cost in critical situations such as the termination of a fisheries agreement. and we argued then, and we continue to argue, that aid for temporary and permanent stoppages should be maintained, especially when it has been decided not to apply a system of transferable quotas. once this system of transferable quotas has been discarded, the new fund must be provided with lines of aid to facilitate its application to the fleet.
in writing. - in my region, cantabria, the fisheries sector is very important, not only from an economic point of view but also in terms of its social impact, and its effectiveness and competitiveness over the next six years will depend to a large extent on this fund. the spanish socialists have proposed in this report a strong and useful european maritime and fisheries fund for the period 2014-2020 and we have asked for an additional eur 900 million to be added to the figure proposed by the council, thus reaching eur 6.5 billion. we want to ensure that more training aid is provided to promote youth employment in the sector, equality and generational renewal. we have shown clear support for small-scale fishing and for improving the working conditions of those involved in this sector, in accordance with ilo standards.
in writing. - i abstained from the final vote because i believe that the proposal adopted has positive aspects, such as those concerning aid for fleet modernisation which imply greater safety for the crew, but the aspects which affect the basque fleet negatively, such as the definition of small-scale fleet, have a significant weight.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains various positive measures concerning the functioning of the fund, it introduces other aspects which will make it possible to finance large fisheries groups. the report introduces a number of important changes to benefit small fishermen, from funding for biological stops to modernising engines on small-scale vessels, etc. however, the report maintains certain points which can be used by large fisheries groups to benefit from public funds. we are still committed to small-scale fishermen, but legislation must also be put in place to protect the environment effectively against the exploitation of the seas by large companies. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. − against. meps have today voted for a fisheries fund that is at odds with the goals of the recently-agreed reform of the common fisheries policy. instead of voting to end the use of public funds to subsidise overfishing and the over-exploitation of fish stocks, they have voted to give eu funds to practices that are in direct conflict with the goal of more sustainable fisheries. of particular concern are proposals to reintroduce subsidies for funding for engine replacement and grants for purchasing boats for young fishermen. this would essentially subsidise an increase in fishing capacity in the eu: a totally wrongheaded approach at a time when the cfp is looking to reduce, not increase, fishing capacity. thankfully, meps at least rejected proposals to reintroduce subsidies for new fishing vessels. one important improvement is the adoption of green proposals to increase funding for research and control and to enable oversight by the commission on how member states disburse these crucial funds for eu fisheries.
in writing. − this first reading of the emff corresponds to the reform of the cfp and the need to have sufficient resources for its effective implementation in order to ensure the socioeconomic and environmental sustainability of aquaculture and fisheries activities. we have successfully defended the financing of fisheries and aquaculture, as well as related activities, marketing and diversification. as a socialist from a region heavily dependent on fishing, galicia, i am pleased to see support for our proposals on the integration of young people for generational renewal, in cases of natural and environmental disasters, and those aimed at alleviating the effects of temporary and permanent cessations. there is ample scope for institutional agreement with the commission and the council, which i hope will reflect these priorities in the revised text, with a view to its adoption by parliament at second reading. i regret that the aid for fleet modernisation and transfer of vessels has not been supported, nor has the socialist proposal for a definition of coastal and small-scale fishing that is more flexible and with more open parameters than the current 12 metres, extending it to vessels up to 15 metres and those operating at tides of up to 24 hours.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe in the need to act in the face of the climate change that human activity is producing on the planet. the report seeks to build on the work done in the various international fora dealing with the subject. the report is a political statement by the european parliament, which congratulates the countries which have taken the initiative in implementing international agreements and calls on the rest of the union to do the same. the report contains a number of proposals on the implementation of international agreements by the various european sectors and also outlines the action to be taken by european diplomacy in the various international fora. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the warsaw conference (cop 19) will be crucial for ensuring the necessary progress in advancing the durban platform to pave the way for the preparation of commitments and the conclusion of a global legally binding agreement by 2015. such a global legally binding agreement must be consistent with a 2°c-coherent carbon budget, equity and the principle of ‘common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities’ (cbdrrc) and must recognise the need for all major emitters to adopt ambitious and sufficient targets and corresponding policy measures for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, reflecting evolving responsibilities and capabilities; the resolution reiterates that 90% of the global emissions growth takes place in developing countries which have no reduction obligations under the current kyoto protocol.
in writing. - amendment 1: an ambitious eu emission reduction target is itself an objective of technological and industrial development, energy saving and energy independence; the eu strategy should not be left to external will. amendments nos 7 and 11: i voted against because both ideas are provided for in the text of the resolution. amendments nos 9 and 10: i share the view that a joint international response is necessary, but it is not the only solution, as the amendment states, and the principle of 'different responsibilities' must be taken into account. the aim should be to achieve the binding global agreement at the 2015 cop as agreed in durban.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it introduces fundamental elements in the fight against organised crime, it does not go into detail on the prosecution of it at all levels. this report is the propaganda product of various members of the european parliament to claim that they are fighting crime, but the report leaves out of its reach the economic and financial consequences and the use of the funds of this type of crime that the european and worldwide financial institutions make of them. without including the beneficiaries, the root causes of organised crime are not being tackled, and this report, while providing progress on certain issues, will not be enough to impact organised crime. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the position of the greens/efa group in the crim committee has always been in the direction of developing evidence-based law enforcement, preventing stigmatisation of migrants and ethnic minorities and prioritising white collar and economic crimes as those inflict the highest social harm. for this reason it is very welcome that the crim committee also covered the related issues of corruption and money laundering, which highlights the links between organised crime and tax havens. the final report of the crim committee unfortunately failed to provide a convincing answer to the challenges presented by organised crime, corruption and money laundering. we cannot oversimplify the various threats posed and recommend a one-size-fits-all approach based on repression and surveillance. it was particularly unfortunate that a majority of crim members endorsed an amendment calling for an eu passenger name records system and eu terrorist finance tracking system. as this has been solved in the plenary vote, we voted in favour.
in writing. - amendment no 56: the original text of the report covers the idea of effective action and it is not necessary to detail the measures which are specific to the action plan. amendment no 60: i voted against because i do not agree with the radical wording of the amendment (it can only be effective), but i am in favour of a european work permit to combat forced labour. amendment no 64: i voted against, but i am in favour of the vatican bank complying with all the international rules against money laundering. amendment 66: the idea of regulating cash payments to fight corruption is appropriate, but requires another legal formulation. amendment no 36: i vote in favour but i do not agree with the wording of the amendment, which suggests that the eu's migration policy is based only on security; it is a general statement that does not correspond to reality.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because the european neighbourhood policy is an instrument of political interference in the countries neighbouring the european union. we have always opposed the way in which this instrument has been put forward because it calls on the neighbouring states, both to the east and to the south of the union, to undertake economic reforms of a neoliberal nature which are what led to the political process of the arab spring. instead of proposing an instrument for regional cooperation which would allow for political debate and cooperation while fully respecting the sovereignty of the countries, the eu has provided itself with an instrument for intervention in exchange for the cooperation funds it offers. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new instrument for implementing reforms of neoliberal ideology in the economic policy of the member states of the european union. the european semester is a mechanism for european economic governance to ensure that the neoliberal fiscal policy and austerity policies that are leading the european economy to disaster are implemented. the report includes particularly harsh aspects, while support for the banking sector and its 'rescues' are maintained. it also openly proposes to cut pensions, privatise public services and increase competitiveness. since these neoliberal reforms are aimed at destroying the welfare state, i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − in favour. it calls for direct banking recapitalisation by the european stability mechanism (esm) to be available as soon as the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) is in place, as announced by the heads of state and government of the eurozone in their june 2012 declaration; given the urgency of having a single resolution fund to accompany the ssm, supports the immediate establishment of a backstop mechanism, with a reimbursement period by industry; asks the commission to put forward a proposal to bring the esm under the community acquis while providing for comprehensive european parliament democratic accountability.
in writing. the ferreira report is the european parliament's contribution to the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, which for the first time completes its cycle after the entry into force of the two-pack of economic governance. the democratic legitimacy of the process requires the involvement of the european parliament and the national parliaments. the new country-specific recommendations adopted by the council recognise the need for policies that reconcile fiscal consolidation with the stimulation of growth and employment. for them to be useful, they need to be more detailed and precise. the systems for assessing compliance with them and the national reform programmes also need to be improved. the european union needs to boost its competitiveness in the world economy. this requires more than a cost-cutting strategy; it requires increased productivity and more investment in education, research, innovation and development. the text adopted calls for the creation of a social pillar in economic and monetary union and for the introduction of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in the recommendations to member states under programmes to reduce excessive deficits or imbalances; that is why i have supported it.
mr president, as a result of the increase in migratory flows in the mediterranean, we have witnessed many human tragedies, such as the one in lampedusa last week, and that is why my group - the epp group - has given this matter a very thorough consideration. it is clear that the instruments and measures currently in force do not allow effective solutions to be found to prevent such tragedies from happening again, as the italian authorities have indicated. we are asking for immediate humanitarian aid to be given to all the survivors of these tragic events, in particular to unaccompanied minors. of course, we also acknowledge all the efforts made by the ngos - especially caritas and the red cross - and the local population in all these tragedies. bilateral agreements are very important - and we have stressed this. we support the working party that has been set up in the council and, above all, the coordination of all the means.
in writing. - the tragedy of lampedusa has shocked the conscience of mankind. with my group i have tried to vote on some of the contributions of the greens/efa group aimed at extending the interpretation of the dublin agreement, which is too restrictive, in order to better distribute the consequences of the emigration that reaches our borders, because it is clear that italy alone cannot face this serious european problem. one of the first to arrive in lampedusa was the asturian priest don ángel garcía, from the ngo messengers of peace, whose voice, as well as his own from syria, must be heard. i express my admiration for don ángel, the red cross and caritas mentioned in the resolution, and the italian and maltese citizens who have been involved in the rescue at sea.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is absolutely necessary that some institution of the european union should take its share of responsibility for the deaths of the migrants in the shipwreck off the island of lampedusa in italy. the report is a non-binding communication, but it makes important references to the fact that this tragedy must be a turning point and calls on both the member states and the european institutions to reformulate their migration policy in such a way as to guarantee the right to life and protection of the same in such tragic events. without being sufficiently forceful, a resolution of this nature is going in the right direction. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. the european parliament makes a clear appeal to the union and its member states to put an end to the tragedies which have claimed the lives of more than 20 000 people in 20 years. this massacre is the most dramatic proof of the failure of european migration policy. while european border surveillance instruments must be fully used to strengthen the means of rescue at sea, this remains an urgent response. the european parliament has called on the council to adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural products. more generally, european migration policy, deeply perverted by nationalist approaches and security obsession, urgently needs to be re-thought on the basis of the realities of migration and driven by a european spirit of pragmatism, fraternity and responsibility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it took account of several amendments by my group in this parliament which allowed a just expression of condemnation of the spying carried out by the nsa in the different member states of the european union. this joint resolution has brought to light the motion for a resolution tabled by the european people's party, which was little more than a slightly dismissive comment on the pernicious espionage activities carried out by the united states, which have violated the right to privacy of european citizens and their political institutions on millions of occasions. once again the epp has shown itself to be the servant of american imperialism in the eyes of the european citizens. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this joint resolution which excludes the position of the right wing in the european parliament and which also calls for a suspension of the swift agreement.
in writing. for parliament called for the suspension of the swift agreement. it thus paves the way for the european council on 24 and 25 october, when the heads of state or government of the member states will have the opportunity to demonstrate that the defence of citizens' fundamental rights takes precedence over all other considerations. a few days after the revelations of the nsa's spying on the private communications of french citizens, after the adoption of our resolution on the prison programmes and secret flights of the cia on 10 october last, it is time to put an end to the climate of impunity surrounding the fight against terrorism by the united states on the territory of the union! the european parliament is sending a clear message: enough is enough! the new surveillance scandal makes absurd the agreements between the union and the united states to combat terrorism. the agreement (official name: tftp treaty terrorist financing tracking program) to track money transfers that finance terrorism is based on mutual trust. what's the point of such an agreement if it's bypassed by the us intelligence?
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an indispensable step towards ensuring that the financial commitments made by the european institutions during the financial year 2013 are met. this amending budget gives access to the eur 3.955 billion owed by the european institutions to the member states. these are payments for services already acquired and without the adoption of this amending budget the european union would have run a considerable risk of being suspended in payments during the financial year 2013. the council has tried to make the 'granting' of this amending budget conditional on acceptance of its proposal for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. but this vote only refers to the release of the resources needed to deal with the payment of the 2013 debts. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - abstentions from voting. on 18 september, the european commission sent a letter of amendment (com ((2013) 0655)) to the european parliament to revise mainly the estimates of traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and the vat bases to modify the own resources available to the union. the greens have asked that such a sensitive matter not be treated indifferently, without political debate, without public debate and without all the information parliament needs to corroborate the real state of the figures of the community executive. the greens specifically demanded an extraordinary session on the subject. it should be recalled that the greens and the european federalists are also those who maintain that the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework should be voted after the parliamentary elections, so that it can be the subject of debate in the election campaign. the greens have also historically been the champions of the fight for the eu's own resources, which would give more political weight to parliament's decisions vis-à-vis the council.
mr president, i would like to stress that the union's environment programme up to 2020, which we voted in favour of, aims to increase the contribution of environmental policy to the transition to a resource-intensive and low-carbon economy. we therefore think that the rapporteur has strengthened environmental legislation and the integration of environmental issues into other policies with his report and therefore we believe that it is a very positive and priority issue for improving the health and well-being of citizens, because it provides programmes for the overall environment policy framework for 2020. we therefore think that this report is a positive one and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i have not been able to support this report because, although it introduces many positive aspects about environmental conservation strategies in the member states of the european union, it fails to dissociate them from the neoliberal objectives set out in strategy 2020. the environment is a public good or a common good of the whole society. the state must therefore be the guarantor of their protection, including the participation of all citizens of a country. the report includes the agenda of their protection under the interests of international capital and starting from the basis of the introduction of the neoliberal and privatization objectives developed by agenda 2020. i have therefore been unable to support this report.
in writing. − in favour. the last european union environment action programme ended on 31 july 2012. it is therefore high time to agree on the new general framework for the period up to 2020 and propose an ambitious and realistic vision for 2050, as part of the process launched at the rio+20 conference. the very title of the programme ‘living well, within the limits of our planet’ suggests a philosophical reflection on humanity’s relationship with nature and on the need to reconcile economic activity with the environment in line with the notion of sustainable development. in other words we should transcend the blind will to survive, and seek instead to live according to an ethic of responsibility summed up in the proverb: ‘we haven’t inherited the earth from our ancestors, we have borrowed it from our children’.
mr president, i wanted to explain the vote in favour of a proposal for a recast of the council directive laying down basic safety standards and taking a further step towards improving protection against exposure to ionising radiation. the main objective has been that reformulation to remove provisions which are contrary to existing legislation and, basically, the main objective for us has been the protection of the general public; that is a very positive step. and in the area of dumping the rapporteur has set out a timetable for amending the rules governing naturally occurring radioactive materials, which we also found highly positive.
in writing. - i could not support this report because, although it introduces many positive aspects concerning the control and protection of european citizens from this type of radiation, it does not address the main sources of pollution which are causing the increase in this type of radiation on the earth's surface. the emission of gases which affect the ozone layer has been an environmental problem for decades and there has been absolute collusion between public authorities and the industries which manufacture products containing these types of gases. in this report industry is absolved of its responsibilities for the adverse environmental effects caused by the pollution it causes. i therefore, although i share the concern expressed in the report, have not been able to support it.
in writing. i voted against. it is certainly welcome that the legal basis has changed, that is to say that this directive will no longer be based on the euratom treaty, which is in the hands of nuclear experts, but on the treaty of lisbon, where parliamentarians have the power of codecision. however, the greens/efa group voted against this text because it does not guarantee the health protection of the population and workers, both in normal situations and in the event of an accident. a recent independent epidemiological study of 4500 medical records has shown that the passage of the chernobyl radioactive cloud into corsica has caused an increase in thyroiditis and thyroid cancer. unfortunately, the commission's proposal for a new radiation protection directive does not take account of the latest available studies and shows a flagrant lack of will to effectively protect the public from ionising radiation. in the event of a nuclear accident, the text sets reference levels comparable to those experienced by the people of fukushima. this allows nuclear operators to minimise the costs of compensating and compensating victims, not to mention the insurance they would have to take out to meet them.
mr president, this annual owninitiative report assesses the union's common foreign and security policy and makes a number of recommendations for improving it, in particular to make it more comprehensive, more coherent, more effective and more visible. we therefore believe, first of all, that the objectives of this policy must have adequate resources and that, within the framework of this strategy, clearer priorities must be set and the resources of the union and the member states better used, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon. the priorities must be the atlantic partnership, the economic and political development of the neighbouring countries and the peace process in the middle east. we think it is fundamental, and that is why we vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it presents a shameful position of the european parliament vis-à-vis the common foreign and security policy pursued by the council throughout 2012. the report elegantly sums up the council's work in its imperialist work in the different regions of the world. it is shameful that such a policy is praised, which encourages the intentional violation of rights in many parts of the world. my group in this parliament has developed a minority report because of the lack of reference to open conflicts in which the council has not stopped intervening, either by action or by omission, favouring the interests of its military allies, who are known gross violators of human rights. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − abstention. again, a very unbalanced report, including some good recommendations, and many bad references to a model of europe based on values that contradict the very spirit of the european idea.
in writing. - amendment 3: i vote against because i do not support the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo on 17 february 2008; this has also not been recognised by serbia, russia or the united nations. amendment no 5: i am voting in favour because it is important to relax tensions with iran in order to resolve the problems arising from the lack of freedom and human rights violations (the special case of the ashraf refugee camp). paragraph 46: i abstain because i share the spirit of the paragraph but do not support the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo.
we voted in favour of the proposal because we believe that the rapporteur's own-initiative report paves the way for a major renewal of the current regulatory framework, which, although approved and adopted in 2009, is far from being fully implemented in the field of telecommunications in the european union and the internal market for electronic communications is still incomplete. we therefore think that what the report does is to pave the way for this review, a review which should provide a stable and sustainable framework, ensure its harmonised, coherent and effective application and facilitate the development of pan-european suppliers. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an assessment of developments in the field of electronic communications which, while recognising their progress, focuses on the importance of continuing to make progress in developing better service to european consumers. the report points to a number of areas where the sector needs to improve due to the high level of consumer rights violations in the sector. in many member states, telecommunications companies are engaging in abusive behaviour in the various services in the sector and this report proposes that abusive practices be reviewed in order to improve consumer protection. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the commission presented its most recent proposals for amending the union framework for electronic communications in november 2007; the revised framework was adopted by the parliament and council two years later, in november 2009, after lengthy and difficult negotiations. the deadline for transposition into national legislation was 25 may 2011, i.e. 18 months after adoption. however, only a small minority of member states transposed the rules in time and the last member states to notify full transposition did so only in january 2013. while the commission has the obligation to review the framework periodically and has recently committed to a review of two integral parts of the framework (directive 2002/58/ec on privacy and electronic communications and the recommendation on relevant markets) it has not so far announced its intention of a whole review. that is why we welcome this opportunity to weigh up the framework and consider where the commission stands on questions that were already on the table in 2009 but only touched upon at that time owing to lack of consensus.
mr president, commissioner, if there are two issues which concern young people, one is their vital employment project and the other is their sense of belonging to a political and cultural community, which is the european union. we talk a lot here about providing jobs for young people, and it is good that we do, but now we also have the opportunity to talk about those shared values, because the erasmus programme has allowed many young europeans to feel part not only of their countries but also of the european union. you have said in your speech that the budget is going to increase at european level and for that reason it is hard to understand why in some countries, such as my own, spain, where the flow of students in both directions is one of the highest in the european union, there has been uncertainty about the future of this programme, when what the spanish administration should have done was to promote it as the commission did.
mr president, without going into the new criteria for allocation, we are clearly and unequivocally in favour of the erasmus programme. and that is why i cannot but regret and reject the unfortunate statements by the spokesman for the commissioner for education in reference to the position of the spanish government. let there be no doubt! spain, which is the member state with the largest number of participants in the programme, ensures that all students receive the linear aid they counted on when they enrolled in the programme. absolutely peaceful in that sense. these doubts are now cleared up, and we welcome the new 'much broader' programme, which merges existing programmes while establishing a sports chapter for the first time and increasing the budget for the period 2014-2020 by 58%. more erasmus means more opportunities. and that is precisely why i have no doubt that the future of erasmus is assured. the young people can rest assured that we will not allow anything else.
mr president, i would like to welcome the improvement that this 'erasmus for all' programme has brought to earlier initiatives. the programme is now better structured and clearer for users, and there will be more funding to support student mobility in europe, from €3.1 billion for the period 2007-13 to at least €4.92 billion for the period 2014-2020. this is one of the great achievements of the union, it makes it clear that europe is good for something and it has encouraged many young people to mobilise to maintain and improve a programme that serves them, helps them and links them to what we do here every day: european politics. i am also glad that the data confirm that one of the countries most affected by the crisis, spain, will see european contributions increase by more than 4%. we have also learned that ministers in madrid, such as the spanish minister for education, have decided to cut back on spending, in spite of the efforts of brussels: it is not unusual for a government official to be more interested in making students spanish than in improving their education, despite the unequivocal european commitment.
the next item is the report by mrs silvia costa, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the creative europe programme (com ((2011) 0785 c7-0435/2011 2011/0370 ((cod)) (a7-0011/2013).
thank you, doris, and i take this opportunity to thank you for all that you have done for culture over the years in our committee and in parliament as a whole.
we have just finished a very fruitful session on the use of the word 'catch the eye' and, by the way, we should congratulate the croatian members because in a very short time they have become experts in the use of this procedure and there are many of them speaking this session. (end of speeches under the 'catch the eye' procedure)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 19 november, at 12 noon.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by adina-ioana vălean, dominique riquet and inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a connecting europe facility (com ((2011) 0665 - c7-0374/2011 - 2011/0302 ((cod)) (a7-00021/2013), and- report by georgios koumoutsakos and ismail ertug, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on union guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network (com ((2011) 0650 - c7-0375/2011 - 2011/0294 ((cod)) (a7-00/2013).
the rapporteur. - mr president, i too would like to acknowledge, first of all, the effort and leadership of vice-president kallas and his services in dg tran in bringing this regulation on the 'connecting europe' financial mechanism to fruition. i would also like to thank my colleagues and my colleagues in the committee on transport and tourism for their hard work and patience, for the diligent cooperation of parliament's various services and for the dedication and ability of our assistants to bring this regulation to fruition. we have now - and i am pleased to say so - obtained a budget which is sufficient to act as a lever, precisely to pull in those projects which up to now have been purely national, purely limited, and which have not had much momentum. i believe that with this regulation and the guidelines we are actually putting in place two networks in themselves: the global and the basic. both are complementary, necessary and articulated through nine corridors that make up the basic network, although they also accumulate other sections that are fundamental. we have managed to identify for the first time - i think that is to give eyes, nose and mouth to these networks that always appeared as very virtual - urban nodes, ports, airports and logistics platforms, where exactly the different means of transport are to be found. these axes also promote a transport mode as fundamental to europe as rail, which is the most sustainable, but they are also multimodal corridors, where motorways of the sea and other key innovation formulas also appear. parliament has also called for synergies between the transport, energy and telecommunications chapters, because they are key elements of future transport and mobility, as well as key systems such as sesar or rtms, and interoperability appears as one of the key principles for getting the most out of all these networks. in the future, we have presented a budget and conditions in parliament for the networks and for what will be the future european area of citizen mobility, where we also intend to overcome national selfishness, the myopia of governments who are settled in the mantra of 'austerity' and cuts. this is happening even as some 'surplus-based' government sees its infrastructure deteriorating and ageing. i believe that it is precisely on the basis of this regulation, this innovative proposal, that we have succeeded in doing our job as europe. there is funding, there are ideas and there are concrete proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is the challenge for the future, and we hope that, contrary to what has happened in the past, the governments which have contributed and which have also fought, even to include their projects, will not take a step back and forget what has been achieved so far. they are now facing this challenge, because the ball of european mobility is on their roof.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank all those who have worked on these reports for the effort they have made to respect the methodology and reach the agreements contained in the transeuropean transport networks and their 'connecting europe' financial mechanism. i think we all see them as basic initiatives to improve our competitiveness and to be a genuine common market. that is why we are prioritising, setting projects and deadlines, and we are advocating more powers for european coordinators and more control and transparency in the implementation of all projects. one of the basic objectives is to eliminate the bottlenecks which today prevent the free and effective movement of goods and people in europe. to achieve this, the key word is 'commitment'. the basque country, for example, had to bet on one of these projects in a key location to connect the iberian peninsula with europe. from euskadi we are making a great economic effort and facing terrorist threats that cost the life of the businessman ignacio uría, whom i remember and pay tribute to. today the violence has disappeared, but despite the crisis, we are still determined to finish our stretch of the atlantic corridor, the basque y. such a sacrifice would be a waste of time if the neighbouring states did not comply. the same is true of other bottlenecks in europe. we must do this, because improving mobility in europe will be a source of quality employment. it will serve to mobilise private capital that needs legal certainty and, in addition, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, oil dependency and logistical costs. it should be remembered that the saturation of transport networks costs us 1% of european gdp every year. to really want a united europe means to be consistent with the commitments contained in these initiatives in the commission and in the member states. if we are, then the public will see that europe is worth living in, working in and trusting in.
madam president, commissioner, spain has succeeded in integrating many of its proposals which had as their main objective the common interest and, above all, european added value. the configuration of the mediterranean and atlantic corridors with their respective areas covers the basic needs of our national project. spain also welcomes the inclusion of the central pyrenees crossing in the main network, in connection with the studies for the project evaluation and the choice of the route. in addition, in view of the importance of tourism for our country, a number of airports with more than 1% of passenger traffic in the union will also be included in the main network. it should also be borne in mind that several logistics platforms such as alcázar de san juan, león, antequera, murcia, valladolid and zaragoza will also be part of the main network. finally, i would like to point out that the port of vigo has improved its position in the guidelines for the trans-european transport network, thanks to the inclusion of the logistics platform associated with the port to receive funds. but we are not satisfied and want it to be included in the main network. we have tabled amendments, mr vice-president, and we expect support. we naturally want this project to be complete and we believe that the port of vigo deserves that consideration.
madam president, as a catalan member of the european parliament, i welcome the agreement on the ten-t network and transport financing under the connecting europe facility. the port of barcelona will be included tomorrow, for the first time ever, in the map of european railway and flight transport priorities, which was not the case in 2003. ten years ago, the spanish government of mr aznar and the people’s party (pp) excluded all the mediterranean ports from the european network. i hope this will not be the case tomorrow. i also think that we need more money in order to realise all the core priority projects by 2030. i really hope the resources agreed in the deal on the mff will allow us to achieve at least some of the projects identified. hopefully, these will include the ones with capacity to create the highest added value for the european economy such as, in my opinion, the mediterranean corridor. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue card question. what is it? madam president, mr tremosa, it is not necessary to tell lies to praise the inclusion of the port of barcelona in the network, which is the result of everyone's work. it would be much easier not to be untrue and not to say what you have said: that the aznar government excluded all mediterranean ports. that is absolutely uncertain and you should be held accountable for such a felony.
blue-card answer. – in 2003 the spanish government only proposed one train to the commission: that was the train through madrid, zaragoza and the central pyrenees. i am not against that corridor but feel that the ports of valencia, tarragona and barcelona, the ports of the cantabrian sea and also other mediterranean ports, were excluded from that network. so i am pleased now that all these ports will be included in the priority network, along with the aragon pyrenees route originally proposed.
madam president, i would first like to say that all the pp governments in spain have given high priority to the so-called mediterranean corridor, and that is the truth of the matter. that said, my speech has one main objective: to reiterate that the port of vigo must also be included in the main network of the trans-european transport network. in the course of the report with koumoutsakos and ertug in this parliament, since 2012, i and many other members, mr commissioner, have been insisting from the committee on transport on the need to complete the main network with the port of vigo. now, again, many members of the european parliament have signed an amendment along these lines which is fully justified. the port of vigo is the world's busiest port for fishery products for human consumption, a strategic port for the north-west of the iberian peninsula in terms of the volume of goods it handles, and the motorway of the sea linking it to france will soon be put into operation. the enlargement of the panama canal will also - as you know, commissioner - mean a very significant increase in its volume of charter traffic. at the moment, thanks to the work of the council and the transport committee, the agreement reached on the draft regulation already contains important improvements for the port of vigo and its associated structures, such as the intermodal platform. but the main network will be incomplete if it does not include the port of vigo.
the rapporteur. - mr president, allow me to highlight in this second reading the potential of the connecting europe instrument which we will be adopting tomorrow for a territory that is as emblematic of the periphery as it is of the unfortunate crisis management of an amalgam of governments and institutions anchored in an ideology and a strategy for which history will one day demand payment. i am speaking of the iberian peninsula, a global mobility hub and a privileged crossroads for the current and future flows of the mediterranean and the atlantic. i am sincerely convinced that the european union and this parliament are now consolidating the link between the peninsular territory and the two transfrontier rail corridors already mentioned, the atlantic and the mediterranean, which have the ambition of finally crossing the pyrenees by activating and connecting ports, airports and multimodal and logistical platforms: ten spanish airports, fourteen maritime ports - although the port of vigo also deserves to be a nodal port, which is why we support and have tabled the amendment in question - and ten multimodal and logistical platforms. i also envisage financial support for urban nodes, where the majority of citizens live and where all means of transport intersect: rail, sea, air, road, etc. these two corridors will also be supplemented by a section linking the ports of valencia and bilbao, which will form a transversal axis and thus link up a territory in need of economic development such as the province of teruel, among others. we have not forgotten the ambition of one day crossing the pyrenees through the centre of the region, and so we in the european parliament have managed to recover the central pyrenees crossing project, as has been said. i only hope that the minister of transport in my region, aragon, does not end up jeopardizing the logistical capacity on which this project rests. and this european parliament has also provided that those projects which are important to us, such as the restoration of the canfranc or the logroño-castejón railway corridor, are likely to be financed by devoting 5% of the global network to these projects. this funding may also be used for road sections needed to improve, inter alia, road safety. all these legitimate ambitions, now set out in this regulation, will be of no avail if the concern and the european network are confronted and contradicted by national decisions on medium- and long-term plans which do not even provide for approximations to their flagship projects, such as the lyon-turin line. we cannot accept that national governments, which have fought until the last minute to include all their priorities and projects, should, at the moment of truth, that is, 1 january 2014, sit on their surplus - in the case of germany - or on their deficit, whether possible or real - in the case of france or spain - and again paralyse what is now a hope for economic development and job creation. if the experts say that every euro in infrastructure multiplies by two digits, they also say that if that euro is invested.... (the president cut the speaker off) )
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank parliament, its rapporteur mr takkula, and the chair of the committee on culture and education, mrs pack, for this report. we all agree that this programme is of high value for european citizens. whilst there were initial disagreements between parliament and the council regarding the legal basis, very constructive and creative solutions were ultimately found. we appreciate this constructive approach and welcome the fact that parliament intends to give its consent to this regulation. in the context of the current general economic situation and the union’s challenging agenda for the following years, it is now more important than ever for citizens to help shape european union policies. as members of the european parliament, you know how important it is to bring the union closer to its citizens and the citizens closer to the union. these assumptions are at the core of the new programme. complementary to instruments such as the european citizens’ initiative introduced by the lisbon treaty, the europe for citizens programme aims to further encourage the involvement of citizens in shaping the future of the european union. this will be done by, among other things, supporting an active civil society and through reflecting the importance of understanding europe’s recent past, coming to terms with it and passing the message on to europe’s young generation. the new programme will build on the successes of the current programme. as this programme is already the smallest instrument of the 2014-2020 generation, i share your disappointment regarding the reduction of its budget. i nevertheless welcome the effort made by parliament in proposing an amendment to increase the budget available for the programme in 2014 by eur 2 million. i particularly wish to thank parliament – as well as the council and its successive presidencies – for their flexibility and spirit of compromise. last but not least, let me once again recall the importance of having this programme adopted in time. i appreciate parliament’s decision to proceed to the vote in this plenary session. with fewer than 200 days to go before the european elections, consent will allow the programme to be adopted quickly, which will be in the best interests of future beneficiaries.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, as the rapporteur, mr hannu takkula, has explained, there was a problem with the legal basis in this report, because in the committee on culture and education we understood and continue to defend the idea that the procedure applicable was the codecision procedure and not the approval procedure. the council decided during the trialogue to follow the line proposed by the commission and therefore we will have to vote against the report by parliament tomorrow and accept the council's proposal. it is an essential programme for europe and its citizens, and a contrary position of parliament would have meant the impasse at the start of the programme and the fact that, in the eyes of public opinion, parliament was responsible for this delay. in a very important year for europe, with the next elections in view, and with the rise of anti-european parties, i consider this programme, which represents a link between the european union and its citizens, to be essential and its very small budget to be very disappointing. this programme should have a greater specific financial weight, but i am nevertheless glad that during the negotiations with the council some of parliament's proposals were accepted, such as the creation of a specific chapter on the historical memory of europe. the financial allocation of the programme for the union's institutional communication - which should not be - has also been brought into proportion to the total budget of the programme, and the notion of geographical balance has also been included. finally, i would like to thank mr takkula and the chairman of the committee, mrs doris pack, for their efforts and persistence.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission, and in particular of my colleague commissioner barnier who followed this file closely but could not be present today, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr scholz, and his colleagues for their very good work and support given to the commission over the last month. the workshops and hearings organised by the rapporteur have allowed the commission to explain the substance and rationale of the agreement in detail. we also particularly welcome the recommendation, tabled by the committee on international trade, that parliament give its consent to the adoption of the council decision on the conclusion of the revised agreement on government procurement (gpa). the gpa is the only legally binding agreement in the world trade organization covering government procurement. the eu is a party to the gpa with respect to its 28 member states. on 30 march 2012, the gpa parties adopted first the protocol amending the agreement on government procurement and second, seven decisions of the gpa committee on future work programmes. the revised agreement which will enter into force brings major improvements to the current regime, which dates back to 1994. it is, first of all, more closely aligned with the euʼs requirements on awarding government contracts. the new gpa tender rules are indeed largely inspired by the structure and content of the euʼs procurement directives. a key feature of the revised agreement is the requirement for the parties to the agreement and their entities to conduct procurement in a transparent and impartial manner so as to avoid conflicts of interest and prevent corrupt practices. i am aware of parliament’s concerns regarding the taking into account of social and environmental aspects in the revised gpa. the revised agreement which is subject to ratification does not change the status quo relating to labour and social rules. as the report rightly says, the new provisions of the gpa establish a level playing field whilst providing sufficient space for political decisions. the specific issue of compliance with social and environmental law is clearly addressed in the euʼs reform package on public procurement, to be formally adopted in early 2014. i am convinced that the result achieved serves the interests both of european businesses and of european citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr commissioner, public procurement is an extremely important issue. in fact, the time it has taken to carry out this negotiation has been long. i thank the rapporteur for his efforts, but we regret that there has not been an interim report to express the views of our parliament on the aspects already mentioned, such as the labour, social or environmental aspects of public procurement. how will it be implemented, how will it be controlled and corruption prevented? how is sustainable public procurement covered in this agreement? in my country, the public procurement rate is 16%. public procurement should also be a tool for the 2020 objectives of growth and sustainability. and speaking of growth and sustainability of public procurement and public services, in my country they want to close a valencian public television because of a totally manipulative pp. close simply for closing, as was done in greece. it is closed, although the valencian socialists have lodged an appeal with the constitutional court because the right to information is being violated, because culture is being violated, because self-government is being ignored and destroyed, because democracy is being violated, because the voice of a people is being silenced. because if the valencian public television is closed, the valencian government is partially mutilated and, therefore, the valencians themselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is about to lose another public television station, joining the already lost greek television. it is canal 9, the television of the valencian community in spain, the media of a people with a language and a culture of their own. the valencian government of the popular party which has its counterparts in the majority in this house has decided to close it taking as a pretext the crisis and savings. the voice, the language and the right to public information of a people have been put to an end. and it has been done after the ruling people's party has been manipulating this media and its information for almost two decades, putting it at the service of the business interests of friends and using it as an instrument of corruption, as has been demonstrated. i, as a member of parliament and a valencian, denounce this dishonor in this parliament, and i ask the right-wing people's group in this house to decide whether this is the model of the right to public information that they have or not. and if it is not, help the workers of canal 9 to keep their jobs, and help the valencian people to keep their television and their culture in the language that is their own as a people. otherwise the dignity of this union will be called into question.
mr president, eleven years ago the prestige caused a black tide with enormous environmental and socioeconomic impact in galicia and on the entire coastal strip from the mouth of the miño, on the spanish-portuguese border, to the english channel. the verdict handed down last week in the case has raised great concern and concern, as well as protests. the commission must ensure that environmental protection and the rights of citizens are effectively guaranteed in the european union. all responsibility must be cleared up and there is no excuse for legal persons not being held accountable in criminal proceedings for the activities of their staff or for the owners of instrumental and undercapitalised transport companies not doing the same for their irregular practices. the qualifying companies must also be brought before the european courts without limitation of liability for poor checks on safety conditions. the principle that 'whoever pollutes, pays' requires that the perpetrators be held accountable and compensation paid. it is not normal that after a decade one should have to go through a limited procedure to obtain reparation estimated to exceed eur 4 billion.
the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on:- the recommendation of the committee on budgets on the draft council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 (11791/2013 - c7-0238/2013 - 2011/0177 ((app)) (rapporteurs: jean-luc dehaene, ivailo kalfin) (a7-0389/2013), and- the report by rafał trzaskowski, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, cooperation in budgetary matters and sound financial management (com (2011) 0403 - c7-0186/2011 - 2011/2152 ((aci)) (a7-0337/2013).
mr president, we could all use our speech to criticise the agreement on the financial perspective; the reasons have been given: insufficient budgetary resources, little european ambition, a departure from the positions of the european parliament and even the commission, but i think that the financial perspective has many reasons for us all to be happy. firstly, they were negotiated in the midst of the worst economic and financial crisis in european history and they were negotiated in the midst of the fiscal consolidation process, with national treasuries completely exhausted. and they have also won the unanimity of governments that are totally different, with completely opposite interests and sensibilities. and they're also going to get very overwhelming support in this house from completely different political groups. the shortcomings of this multiannual financial framework will depend on how quickly we get out of the economic crisis and how well we can give a new impetus to the necessary movement towards european integration. paradoxically, the more momentum this new movement towards european integration acquires, the more insufficient these financial prospects will prove to be. that is why the midterm review clause is so important and why it is fundamental - although i understand that there are groups in this house who do not like it - that there should be genuine financial autonomy of own resources, because that is what is going to change the balance of power between the member states and the european union. and in this house i think we like that.
mr president, seven years ago, everyone agreed that a european budget without real own resources, captive and fed, in more than two thirds of cases, by national egos, a victim of the intergovernmental method and the galloping renationalization of a conservative, short-sighted and fearful leadership - not to mention the recent scandal of countries with a surplus that is fattening, while the wages of their workers are weakening and the economies of the south are ruined - could not continue. and, to make matters worse, the disastrous management of the financial and economic crisis has shown more starkly all the weaknesses and contradictions of a budget built more from national electoral short-sightedness than from an intelligent vision of a common european project. it is true that citizens understand us less and less and that it will not be easy to explain an alleged miracle of 'multiplication of the loaves and fishes'. but it is also true that, given the depressed situation in our countries and regions, farmers, students, scientists, artists, the sick, businesses, workers, the unemployed and young people are waiting for the new programmes to start urgently, because the administrations, pressured by the troika and impoverished, have no other recourse. we have already made some clear improvements to some programmes: the 'connecting europe' mechanism will triple its budget to complete the european transport and mobility infrastructures and systems, which have always been vectors of growth, development and employment, and which propose novel ways of supporting credit through specific project bonds. but i am not naive and i recognise that the only thing that can justify our vote, which will put the funds and programmes we are waiting for into action, is the revision clause which gives the next parliament the task of improving this budget from 2016 onwards, and the working party on own resources, which must produce results by may 2014.
mr president, i think the most important thing about this 2014 budget is to analyse again the damned relationship between commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. indeed, the more commitment appropriations the european parliament gets for its own political priorities, the more unpaid bills and tensions between the three institutions increase. i think that has been, is and will continue to be the big budget problem. and i think that the three institutions are to blame for this difference between commitment and payment appropriations for entirely different reasons. for example, the 2014 budget could not be understood without the 2013 budget year mentioned earlier by commissioner lewandowski; therefore, both giovanni la via and anne e. jensen appear to be co-rapporteurs and not rapporteurs of two successive budget years. the 2013 budget was as important as the negotiation of the 2014 budget. we are experiencing a growing shortage of payment appropriations, and this has been the case for the last three budget years. i think that the work that the committee on budgets started last year, which is to know exactly what the budgetary needs of the european union are for the current year, is very important. what could not happen was that we continued to question the figures, the estimates given by the european commission. i think we have made a great deal of progress in this budgetary conciliation, because the figures given by commissioner lewandowski from the very beginning of the negotiations for this budgetary year were accepted by all the institutions, and that has allowed us to have a good conciliation and an acceptable budget for 2014.
mr president, in view of the negotiations, all's well that ends well. we do not have all the resources we asked for, but we do have an intangible capital which we could not do without under any circumstances: a budget in a framework of stability and legal certainty, which is essential to generate confidence in public and private investors. i congratulate the rapporteurs on this and we will thus help the member states, in the sixth year of the crisis, to meet their commitments to structural reforms and to the control of their public accounts. my country is pursuing a demanding reform programme; we need the union to complete its own - for example, to put the three pillars of the banking union into action now. if we want to get out of the crisis once and for all, europe must also finish what it has started. these budgets are an example of austerity by reducing administrative and institutional expenditure. it is a question of efficiency and effectiveness, and of avoiding the deplorable payment arrangements which have been the case this year. parliament has put more resources into programmes that are catalysts in job creation, research, innovation, smes, etc. ladies and gentlemen, the recurring problems of payment appropriations, the 'abnormal' ral and the perverse dynamics of net balances between states would end if, once and for all, we let this parliament decide on own resources. i therefore say that the agreement reached in the framework negotiations on the high level group on own resources is and will be a major success for this parliament. my congratulations to all the colleagues who have led and promoted it.
in writing. - after tough negotiations with the council and the commission, and a lack of willingness on the part of the pp to continue them, i voted in favour of approving the multiannual financial framework, which in my view remains unfair and insufficient, given the possibility that, if we do not take a decision, the multiannual programmes may be paralysed. the spanish socialists therefore call for a mid-term review to be able to adjust the items and priorities where necessary.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents the adoption by the council of the proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, which involves the consolidation of austerity policies at european level. the european parliament, in this report, is giving in to the council's demands in the face of the demands and needs of the european citizens. as has been demonstrated in the countries of the south, austerity policies only deepen the economic problems caused by the financial crisis for citizens and introducing this economic orientation into the european institutions will only limit the international instruments capable of addressing these needs. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − against. while the low overall ambition of the euʼs future budgetary framework was already known, this final deal leaves little or no scope for redressing this. the eu will be stuck with a budget with no vision for the coming seven years. the annexed declarations on the key outstanding issues – own resources, flexibility and a budget review – are non-binding and aspirational. there is little or no guarantee of them actually yielding any concrete outcome. this is no ‘compensationʼ for parliament accepting the massively scaled-down ambition of the overall mff. parliament has today rolled over and accepted a backward-looking budget, devoid of ambition and with almost no possibility of rectifying this. the future budgetary period will see the eu budget continuing to focus on old, outdated priorities, whilst providing no answers to the current economic, social and environmental challenges faced by europe. the eu will continue to spend too much on subsidising agro-industry and iter and too little on education, research and sustainable farming. after all the fighting talk from the big groups, we are left with precious little of substance. this mff is a missed opportunity to counteract the effects of austerity policies and give a much-needed boost to the economy.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 was approved by a large majority after months of negotiations, but it has finally been possible to provide greater flexibility to budgets by, for example, making it possible for funds not used in one year to be earmarked for others, thus optimising resources, or including the possibility of anticipating spending in such important areas as combating youth unemployment. the budget is set at 1% of the eu's overall gdp and has been structured in 5 categories, of which 47% of the budget will go to the 'smart and inclusive growth' block which will promote research, innovation, infrastructure, the new erasmus+ programme and smes, demonstrating once again the eu's commitment to investing in education, development and enterprises to boost and strengthen the economy. i believe that this budget will make it easier to achieve the objectives set and i therefore welcome the budget which has been adopted.
in writing. − i abstain on this mff because there is not enough cash to finance projects with european added value based on cost benefit analysis. i am afraid that funding for the mediterranean corridor, for example, will be too small. moreover, if there are no own resources, the european budget will continue to be a puppet for the interest of 28 member states and cost-efficient programs important for citizens will be forgotten. i want it to be remembered that article 311 of the lisbon treaty states clearly that the mff should be funded only by own resources. it is a pity that the council refuses to implement it.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a new step forward in the austerity policies within the european institutions. this report incorporates an interinstitutional agreement between the council, the commission and parliament to ensure its functioning while implementing the logic of austerity. the report endorses the agreement reached on the multiannual financial framework by implementing its cuts in the european institutional context. the report criticises the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and calls for greater transparency and availability of information, but it is part of the same package of measures that develops and implements it. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − against. we voted against the interinstitutional agreement (iia) because it is part of the mff package. see our explanation of vote on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. - my vote on draft amending budget no 7/2013, which strengthens the european social fund to tackle youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion in france, italy and spain, is in favour. in cantabria, unemployment rose by almost 3 000 people in october, with young people and women being particularly affected. unemployment is rife in all sectors, with the industrial sector suffering the most. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european social fund is a good one, but it is not enough to make it a reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves making available the financial resources budgeted so that the european social fund can make available to france, italy and spain resources for the fight against youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the countries of southern europe have been the most affected by the economic crisis and this report implements an amendment to the 2013 budget authorising the provision of financial resources to enable this programme to be carried out. youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion are the three phenomena which have increased the most in these countries since the beginning of the crisis, especially in spain. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because the proposed measure makes resources available to combat the effects of the economic crisis.
in writing. − in favour. this dab is the result of one of the deals made inside the european council in the framework of the mff negotiations. it became necessary following the negative impact for certain member states of the uk rebate calculations. though from a procedural point of view, we believe this dab highly questionable (gift distribution, no objective criteria…).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it means making financial resources available to cover the payment obligations already incurred by the european institutions. this is eur 3.9 billion already committed to the member states in the course of the financial year 2013. the budgetary constraints of the european union are a burden on the development of its policies, but failure to meet its payment obligations is a serious breach of the agreements reached. in a context of budgetary constraints also in the member states, the failure of the european union to pay its bills may lead to an increase in the financial problems of the member states with the greatest financial problems. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. dab 8/2013, which the commission adopted on 25 september, concerns the increase of payment appropriations of eur 3.9 billion across headings 1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b and 4 of the multi-annual financial framework (mff), with the aim of meeting the outstanding needs to the end of the year, so that legal obligations stemming from past and current commitments can be honoured, financial penalties avoided, and beneficiaries can receive the funds envisaged by the agreed eu policies, for which parliament and council authorised the related commitment appropriations in previous annual budgets. in line with past commitments by the three institutions, it updates dab 2/2013 (second ‘tranche’), presented by the commission in march 2013 for an amount of eur 11.2 billion and only partially adopted by the budgetary authority in september 2013 for an amount of eur 7.3 billion. parliament set the adoption of this ‘second tranche’ as a condition for its consent on the next mff. the council adopted this dab, but had to reduce it slightly by eur 14 m, as otherwise a modification of the mff would have been necessary for which unanimity applied. this was unrealistic due to opposition from the usual suspects (uk, netherlands and sweden).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows the mobilisation of resources to alleviate the consequences of unemployment in the manufacturing sector of the valencian community. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the european union. in particular, eur 840,000 is being mobilised to finance programmes targeting the 630 workers made redundant in 140 companies in the region as a result of the effects of the crisis. these scarce funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in spain, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the aforementioned human drama suffered by the workers. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. according to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and of the article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million, drawn from any margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified. as concerns the procedure, in order to activate the fund the commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in parallel, a trilogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. the trilogue can take a simplified form.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, despite the fact that it introduces many positive aspects concerning the control and evaluation of public procurement, it supports the development of the internal market and the access of european multinationals to public procurement in all member states. we share the need to improve the monitoring and evaluation of projects financed by the states, which have so far proved insufficient. but opening up these contracts to free international competition means transferring revenues to the most competitive firms that are able to make the cheapest bids. although there are risks, we believe that introducing conditions in public procurement on measures linking the use of public resources to the local productive fabric is essential to allowing an efficient and local use of public resources. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted against. in general, we oppose government procurement being regarded like any other sector of trade policy. government procurement is, on the contrary, a very important public policy tool for supporting strategic purposes. the ‘national treatment’ principle of the government procurement agreement (gpa), and the consequent prohibition on applying local-content requirements in government procurement procedures, is increasingly questioned in the member states, which would like to discriminate in favour of local providers and products, especially in the area of renewable energy. (france and italy put in place their own local-content requirements which are being challenged by the eu). at a time when national economies still face a deep economic crisis, yet are pursuing the opportunity to convert, through investment, into innovative and environmentally sustainable sectors, government procurement is not back as a policy tool.
in writing. - facilitating the mobility of young europeans and promoting exchange programmes by making them accessible to all are two key priorities in combating youth unemployment, which is why i am voting in favour of this report. the socialists should congratulate themselves on securing support for certain points in this report which reinforce youth employment and voluntary work, social inclusion and the integration of people with special needs. at national level, we socialists will continue to reject and fight against the threats of the present government to cut back and give exclusively this type of scholarship, which helps to forge a european identity.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because it includes the introduction of loan grants for the financing of studies. this introduction of loan-sharpening in europe, imitating the american model, comes with the knowledge that this is a sector used by banks to generate large volumes of debt among young people before they even begin their working lives. we consider the erasmus programme and its continuation to be essential, even more so after the recent attacks by the spanish government, but our support cannot be limited to supporting the indebtedness of young people, accepting that education is a market good. my group has tried to push through amendments to exclude loan grants, but because the majority of parliament has agreed to condemn young people to financial debt i have had no choice but to abstain in voting on this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. there were a number of key points for our group. the first was mobility, which should be voluntary and possible (for erasmus mundus, having regard to the regulations and tools in place in the various policies and cooperation programmes. the second was the loan facility (a green success): experimental in character but carrying quite a lot of weight within the programme, at 3.5%. sport – at the grass roots, fostering ‘european identity’ and not strictly for big events – was another key issue, as was literacy, and wide-ranging action is to be taken to tackle this priority (see article 16). another key concern was quality education and training, with youth as an essential part of eu policy on participation and training, and the european social fund in relation to training for job seekers. our green empl/regi team obviously made a difference in the text here, so that education is well targeted. it is now up to the member states (and the commission) to emphasise this objective and translate it into reality. with regard to the negotiations on heading iv, the trialogues were not transparent but the result is much more convincing than the proposal made by the commission. we, as greens, put in a lot of effort and insistence on budgetary questions, and on the student loan-guarantee facility, and this also had a positive impact on the debates.
in writing. - parliament has approved the new budget of eur 14.7 billion for the new erasmus programme, an increase of 40% on the previous period. this new programme will enable more than four million young people to study, train, gain work experience abroad or volunteer over the next seven years. in addition, sport has been included as a new competition within this programme. for the first time, it has been agreed to open a financing line so that students who wish to complete a master's degree in another country can have the facilities to do so and so that the current economic situation does not prevent them from continuing their education. i am very pleased with the budget that has finally been adopted, as it shows that the eu promotes and supports young people and these measures will boost the professional competitiveness of young people and facilitate their access to the labour market.
in writing. − my vote in favour of the new erasmus program is an opportunity for me to show my strongest support for it. erasmus has been very successful in helping young people move around europe and in enhancing a european conscience. the 40% increase in funding for the program is good news for european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a boost for cultural activities and the creative industries in the european union. the report provides for the adoption at first reading of the regulation on the creative europe programme, which includes amendments to the regulation on ensuring cultural diversity within the union, ensuring labour rights, equality between men and women, etc. the report also calls for specific items to be included within the mff 2014-2020 to ensure that the actions of the programme can be implemented. these include mobility and exchange programmes for artists and a number of very positive measures to ensure the maintenance of a creative sector within the european union economy. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. within that overall perspective, the first key point was to ensure that smaller projects still have the broadest possible access to the programmes, and that is often specified now in the legal basis. likewise it remains as a recommendation for the bigger point on the new guarantee facility. we are very much on guard as to how the guarantee facility will be put in place. generally speaking, we succeeded in bringing to the forefront the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of cultural diversity, emphasising too the word ‘artists’ and the notion of ‘risk taking’. another crucial point that was made (and a real plus in terms of the work of the ep) was on the relationship between the european union and the (council of europe) audiovisual observatory and the need for other quality data and indicators proving that culture as a booster of the economy accounts for more than 6% of gdp (commission 2006 study on the economic value of culture), and showing too that cultural and linguistic diversity are not merely ‘obstacles’ but rather sources of richness that such a programme has the means to promote.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a major risk of the continent's 'history being rewritten' by the political majorities controlling the european institutional framework. although the programme referred to a 'europe with citizens' and was an interesting proposal to promote european participation, the council, together with the meps from the cult committee, have transformed the european commission's proposal. the draft proposes that 20% of the budget for 'european historical memory' be allocated to anti-communist propaganda and to erasing the role of the european communists and democrats in the struggle for freedom in europe. pure propaganda to rewrite history and thus give impetus to the fascist movements that are growing in many european countries. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. even if the result is not the one we would have liked to achieve, it seems crucial to safeguard such a possibility for citizens to get involved in (and receive direct support under) the union’s action, even if the reduction of actions and the budget to a minimum make this programme a pure shadow of what could be a real union policy meant for citizens. it should be one of the themes of the next years to get to a cod on this type of files. in the ‘european remembrance’ part, we wanted to add the crimes of colonialism. in the end, the wording was not adopted but the text as proposed by the council does avoid the trap of exemplifying all different totalitarian regimes (a passionate debate in cult), and thereby condenses the chapter in more general terms.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although it introduces important connections in the infrastructures of our country, it allows the massive entry of large private companies in the construction sector into the development of these networks. this report introduces the connectivity plans between the different european regions, from road transport to gas pipelines, involving the committees on transport and industry and energy. the outcome of the negotiations in these committees offers an outcome which ignores the specific realities of each member state, which may need a particular type of transport, to develop the multimodal corridors which allow multi-million dollar contracts to be offered to the big companies in the sector and ignoring their environmental impacts. although it is committed to some of the links which we consider to be fundamental, i have not voted in favour because of all the above.
in writing. - the 'connecting europe' programme is the new financing instrument covering the trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure networks. the main innovation, which i welcome with enthusiasm, is the trans-european transport network (ten-t) and its new list of priority projects: it includes nine multimodal and crossborder corridors, including the mediterranean corridor and the atlantic corridor, both with the presence of catalan and spanish cities. the financing method has been to cooperate between the eu, which finances 40%, and the member states, with better access to the european investment bank for this particular project, and private investors. although the budget allocated to this project is less than the commission's initial forecast, this second extension of the single market will bring great commercial and investment benefits to catalonia and spain. finally, i would urge the member states - spain and france in particular - to give priority to the mediterranean corridor infrastructure as a potential way out of the crisis.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement on the multinational financial framework (mff), and the budget for the connecting europe facility (cef). we would, of course, need more money in order to realise all of the 30 core priority projects by 2030. i really hope the resources agreed in the deal on the mff will allow us to achieve some of the aims identified: hopefully those with most european added value and based on a cost-benefit analysis! the new eu infrastructure policy aims to create a real network and no longer focuses on isolated projects. the new regulation provides for deadlines to make sure that all projects contributing to the core transport network are implemented as a priority. let us hope that the dates of 2030 for the core network and 2050 for the comprehensive network are met. from the beginning i have welcomed recognition of the need to reinforce the eu transport network, in particular by filling in missing cross-border links between catalonia and france and removing administrative and technical bottlenecks caused, for example, by factors like the different railway gauges that exist in spain. i would like to stress once again the need to focus on european added-value projects, and most importantly the need for a detailed cost-benefit analysis for every project on the table.
madam president, the inclusion of the airports of gran canaria and tenerife, as well as the port of santa cruz de tenerife, in the main network, is a recognition of the importance of these infrastructures in a region of spain which has one of its main assets in the tourism sector. if we add the incorporation of the two canary capitals as urban nodes, we can conclude that, thanks to the work of many, the canary islands - an ultra-peripheral region that depends greatly on its transport infrastructures - is conveniently included in the trans-european transport networks. that was a necessary first step, but it was not enough. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the canary islands are included in the list of countries eligible for the community support framework. today is therefore an important day for the archipelago. and i'm honored to have been able to participate and contribute to it.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it approves the development of a transeuropean transport network which has not been amended in any way by the european parliament. this report develops legislation which allows member states to take all decisions on projects in the development of this transeuropean network. as the main funders it is clear that this must be the case, but the proposed legislation lacks democratic control. the member states have set their priorities with indications on maps, there is no control of the resources to be used nor of the levels of use, preventing a rational allocation of resources and leaving all decision to the member states, which, as spain has shown, can leave all these decisions to networks of corruption with governmental connections. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − against. the report improved the commission’s proposal, adding sustainability criteria on cost-benefit analyses, co2 reduction targets and european added value. greens/efa amendments on ‘cross-border sections’ and ‘bottlenecks’ were adopted. an interesting paragraph on environmental legislation and criteria (sea, eia, natura 2000 etc.), as well as a specific paragraph on inland waterways and environmental rules, were adopted. but we did not manage to delete big projects from the core and comprehensive networks maps. our sustainability criteria were integrated into weakened formulations. the council added at the last minute certain inland port projects. our proposals on the cross-border rail connections berlin-świnoujście and freiburg-colmar were deleted. because of contradictions between the good principles in the articles and big projects in the annexed maps, greens/efa voted against both the tran report and the first reading agreement. we organised alternative ten-t days in innsbruck on 5-6 july 2013 and launched there a new greens/efa interactive ten-t website: http://www.green-ten-t.eu"
in writing. − i welcome the agreement on the ten-t network and the transport financing under the connecting europe facility for the period 2014–2020. we would, of course, need more money in order to realise all the 30 core priority projects by 2030; i really hope the resources agreed in the deal on the multiannual financial framework (mff) will allow us to achieve some of the aims identified, hopefully those with most european added value and based on a cost-benefit analysis! the new eu infrastructure policy aims to create a real network and no longer focuses on isolated projects. the new regulation provides for deadlines to make sure that all projects contributing to the core transport network are implemented as a priority. let us hope that the dates of 2030 for the core network and 2050 for the comprehensive network are met. i would like to stress once again the need to focus on european added-value projects, and most importantly the need for a detailed cost-benefit analysis for every project on the table.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, by adapting the legislation to the changes introduced by regulation no 182/2011, it is about improving the interinstitutional control of delegated acts in the european commission. in this case, it is agricultural and fisheries statistics which introduce the possibility of control by parliament and the council into the relevant legislation. the opening up to greater democratic control of any european instrument is always a positive thing, but in this case it is combined with the maintenance of implementing powers relating to the communication between eurostat and the statistical offices of the member states, which will result in poor quality statistics. better statistics in the agricultural and fisheries sectors should improve the knowledge of policies in these areas and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the commission is proposing a new ess structure aimed at improving coordination and partnership in a clear pyramid structure within the ess, with the essc as highest strategic body. one aspect of this streamlining is to concentrate comitology powers in the hands of the essc. in february 2012, the essc supported this new approach. the commission proposes therefore to modify the nine legislative acts in order to replace the reference to the scas by a reference to the essc. we consider that this alignment exercise does not present problems for the parliament. its basic aim is indeed to replace the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (rps) with delegated acts in nine existing legislative texts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the control of water pollution provided for in the convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes. this, also known as the helsinki convention, establishes a framework of international relations for the use and management of waters shared between different countries. the amendment to the convention implementing this report involves the establishment of bilateral negotiating fora between countries sharing transfrontier waters in the field of pollution control. the aim is to foresee the conflicts that may arise from the pollution of such bodies of water. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. on 24 april 2013, the commission published a proposal for a council decision to accept the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the unece convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes (the ‘helsinki convention’). the convention aims at establishing a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control the pollution of transboundary watercourses and the rational use of water by countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the eu has been a party to the convention since 1995. in a resolution on the 6th world water forum adopted on 15 march 2012, the european parliament already expressed its position on the amendment, calling upon the commission ‘to promote the entry into force of the amendments to the helsinki convention in order to extend the scope of this instrument beyond solely the unece countries’. in view of the above considerations, we agree to parliament consenting to the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the convention in order to open the convention globally and enable accession of non unece countries willing to do so.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the financing of iter involves a large economic investment which could be putting the population at serious risk. in a context of serious financial shortfalls in many of the member states of the european union, the financing of this major project, which also benefits switzerland, means ignoring the main priorities of the european citizens suffering from the crisis. this report includes the iter project as part of the eu's energy transition while introducing part of its management to euratom, the body that coordinates nuclear policies in the european union. the report denounces the irregularities in the project but continues to show its support for it despite its unknown risks. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted against. contrary to the commission’s proposal to continue to finance the building of iter outside the future multiannual financial framework (mff), the european council agreed to finance its building under the mff for 2014-2020, and to a budget of eur 2 707 million (at 2011 prices). because of this decision, the commission submitted a new proposal to the council (at the end of august 2013) and will have to withdraw its original one of december 2011. however, the report is based on the original commission proposal of december 2011. the epp, alde, and ecr groups and the pro-nuclear branch of the gue and s&d groups turned the iter vote into a mockery. the greens/efa group requests that any decision on nuclear fusion research, and in particular on the white elephant iter, must enhance democratic control and parliament’s role in relation to nuclear material by introducing the lisbon treaty as the legal basis, and must exclude eu public money, i.e. such research must be based on voluntary contributions by member states outside the eu budget.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents the consolidation of europe's commitment to traditional atomic energy over the next period 2014-2020. our group is aware that atomic energy has many negative externalities which, if taken into account, would make atomic energy one of the least profitable. the control of potentially hazardous waste during this millennium means mortgaging the future at the expense of cheap energy in the present. we therefore reaffirm our commitment to renewable energy and to the end of atomic energy on the continent in order to guarantee a future for the new generations living in europe. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − i voted against. the greens/efa group requests that any decision on nuclear research should: enhance democratic control and parliament’s role in relation to nuclear material by introducing the lisbon treaty as the legal basis; limit the euratom nuclear research programmes to activities linked to radioprotection (of people and environment), decommissioning of nuclear installations, safeguards and non-proliferation (which could free up to eur 1 400 million for the eu budget over the next five years); and exclude research into fusion and the development of new types of fission reactors from eligibility for eu public funding. as regards nuclear waste, the ‘polluter pays’ principle should apply.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes the creation of an instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety. this instrument implies that the european union recognizes the risks of using nuclear energy, showing that an instrument is needed not only for the exploitation of nuclear energy but also to assume the risks it entails and to put in place sufficient resources to make progress in safety. the report amends the proposal for a regulation to recognise the risks and increase safety requirements for the nuclear industry and its potential implications within the union budget. if nuclear energy were to account for the risks and costs of waste control, it could not be profitable. that is why, despite the fact that the regulation supports nuclear energy, i voted in favour.
in writing. − against. the commission originally proposed to allocate eur 631+ million (eur 560 million at 2011 prices) for the insc over the period 2014 to 2020. however, this amount has been cut by nearly 70% after the june 2013 mff agreement to eur 176 million (2011 prices). key points for greens are to: ensure that this instrument is used to cooperate in the fields of nuclear safety and safeguards and not to promote nuclear energy (the commission was (still is?) actually using this instrument to – wrongly – promote nuclear energy around the world!!); ensure the establishment and the implementation of the highest nuclear safety standards that reflect state-of-the-art practices; ensure that international/eu help goes to the stabilisation and remediation of the fukushima site, to radioprotection and food safety in japan (half the budget of insc to be devoted to this).
in writing. - ve: i am in favour of allocating funds for the decontamination of the fukushima nuclear power station in japan, although i do not have precise information on the budgetary needs for this purpose.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an undeniable step forward in the denuclearisation of the continent. nuclear reactors in these countries are considered obsolete and pose major risks to the population. the financial assistance for the closure of these plants was included in the accession act of these countries, but because of the shortage of resources caused by the mfp negotiations, these funds were being called into question by the council. the report seeks to ensure that the agreements reached with bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia on their accession and with the rest of the continent to reduce nuclear risks in the region are respected. the final closure of obsolete power stations is essential and the cost of this is to help member states understand that they are paying very large externalities for the use of this energy. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − abstention. although we did not succeed in having a single legal basis for the three decommissioning programmes, the greens however managed to get: a very good definition of decommissioning, i.e. covering preparatory activities prior to the final one and all activities taking place after the reactors are shut down; the guarantee that this limited amount of money which will be made available for these programmes will strictly serve activities linked to the decommissioning of these nuclear power plants and not be diverted to something else (e.g. building of new power plants as was possible in the past); a financial envelope covering the whole period 2014 to 2020 for the three programmes; a 2017 interim and 2020 ex-post evaluation (although a bit too late for the greens).
in writing. - amendments nos 39 to 41: the question of the ban on the export of material from the decommissioning of the nuclear power stations in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia to the russian federation is a highly contentious one, so i am voting in favour of the majority agreement adopted in the itre committee.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, i would like to congratulate the commission, the chairman of the parliamentary committee and, of course, the rapporteurs, because i believe that this is a new revolution. europe has put on the table a new way of working, where there is public and private input, where innovation is paramount, where there is conditionality to curb bad investments, where a new governance is proclaimed and, in addition, coordination is required. i would therefore ask the council to make an effort to ensure that the regions and municipalities adapt to the new conditions. this is not money to cover the gaps in regional budgets; it is money to make society the actor, to promote a new model of governance, and all of this requires effort, authority and leadership from the member states. the member states are therefore asked to make an effort, and the council to set the conditions and promote everything that is european innovation coordination, coordination of solutions and better governance.
opinion of the committee on regional development - madam president, commissioner, regional policy is part of the dna of the european union: solidarity and cohesion, principles that unite european citizens. however, the commission and the council have distorted the future cohesion policy by giving priority to performance and results and by introducing the possibility of suspending regional aid to member states with excessive deficits. they are aware that this is a double punishment for the regions and the citizens, who have been weakened by the crisis. they demand more sacrifices from the weakest. you know that, commissioner. i thank the members who have negotiated the improvements to the commission's proposal, such as strengthening the role of local and regional authorities, extending the role of the social partners or giving greater flexibility to regional specificities. and finally, commissioner, let me remind you that there was no urgency or emergency for macroeconomic conditionality, nor for cutting the budget of the european social fund. it is not true that it improves the image of regional policy; you know as well as i do that it is a penalty and a further sacrifice for the citizens.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the negotiations, especially mr van nistelrooij and mrs krehl of the socialist group and the chairman of the committee on regional development, mrs hübner. it is a good deal for europe, to get out of the crisis. cohesion is perhaps one of the most visible policies in europe and we believe it is an important instrument for mitigating the effects of the crisis that is afflicting our continent. the work of parliament and its members, as well as the commission and the council, has undoubtedly borne fruit, leading to a better agreement; it has made possible a thematic concentration that coincides with strategy 2020, which is the objective we set ourselves in order to have, in short, a more balanced society; the transition regions have also been created and approved, something which i think must be emphasized in order not to jump into the void and to be able to win for everyone. i would also like to highlight the contribution made and the good work done in relation to the outermost regions and the spanish cities of ceuta and melilla, which are also benefitting from this fund. macroeconomic conditionality has certainly been decaffeinated, and i think that the word 'significant' and everything that has been agreed at the end is positive for the agreement, as is the 6% efficiency reserve. finally, i would like to mention ex ante conditionality, emphasizing conditionality in favour of compliance with the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
mr president, it pains me greatly as a europeanist and a socialist to have to vote 'no' to the horizontal regulation, but i will do so. i shall do so because it is the only way left for me to advocate that 25% should be allocated to the european social fund and that we should put an end to the macro-conditionality, that terrible invention which we have seen in this regulation. the rapporteur has said wonderful things about the european social fund and human capital, but the truth is that the loss of eur 7 billion is being commemorated here at a time when there is a need to launch the youth employment initiative and with as many needs as there are with so many unemployed workers and in crisis. and there have been wonderful things said about solidarity, but a procedure of macro-conditionality is being established which breaks solidarity, which changes the nature of cohesion policy and which makes cohesion policy serve austerity and adjustment policies. it is not possible to accept that the victims of the crisis should pay for the crisis and now be punished as the guilty. and finally, the committee on employment and social affairs - the associated committee - has been left out of the debate, because we are not even allowed to vote on our amendment. so it is with great pain that i will vote no, but with great responsibility.
mr president, there are certainly great successes in the reform of the funds which we shall be voting on tomorrow and which we are debating today: greater simplification, greater controls, greater flexibility. but there are also two big mistakes, which are pushing many of us to consider our vote in tomorrow's vote. firstly, because we talk about the europe of solidarity, the social europe, but in reality we are taking seven billion euros from the unemployed and the poor at a time of the highest unemployment and poverty in recent decades. we talk about the europe of the citizens, but in reality, when a state fails to meet its deficit targets, we penalize the citizens by withdrawing the funds they receive from this social europe. so, yes, ladies and gentlemen of the council, we do not have to say it, we have to prove it. and we must also demonstrate this as democrats, because we are very tired in this parliament of being forced, by this policy of blackmail, to choose between the europe we want, for which we have been elected by the citizens, and the positions defended by the council. we are tired of this blackmail policy where we are told that we either accept the council's conditions or there is no cohesion policy. that is not democracy and it is not the europe that some of us defend... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for all the constructive comments that have been made about the cohesion policy in the discussion in this house. i think we all agree that the european union needs to emerge from the crisis stronger. we need to strengthen the recovery, we need job-rich growth, that growth needs investment and that investment requires resources. but beyond the need for resources, we also need greater certainty about these resources. the house has spoken quite clearly about the need for certainty and resources. as concerns the commission, we are indeed focussed on the question of economic growth and jobs and, especially in this phase of a very fragile and uneven recovery, we need to choose very carefully which measures will lead to more robust economic growth, and we also have to speak very clearly about where the resources are. it is not only this kind of discussion where this is relevant. last week one saw us doing exactly the same on the annual growth survey. however, it is very important to emphasise that while we agree that the very long and unprecedented financial and economic crisis has increased the need for eu resources in the member states, and especially the less developed regions, we should not expect the structural funds to counter the entire euro area crisis and the social consequences of the crisis. in order to counter the euro area crisis, which many speakers pointed to in this discussion, we need to continue implementing those measures that strengthen monetary union and the banking union. of course, discussions on the fiscal capacity for monetary union can also continue but the cohesion policy instruments should not be expected to deliver everything, even if in the process we manage to strengthen the capacity to deliver. when we speak about growth we are not, of course, only speaking about average growth in the eu, but about growth in all the eu member states and in all regions. as speakers said, economic, social and territorial cohesion has been and will have to be a cornerstone of the european union itself. the cohesion policy financial instruments play a central, if not indispensable role in supporting growth and investment, and the performance of these instruments should not be judged on some kind of anecdotal basis. it should be judged on a statistical basis. that is why, just to mention one example, when ms bizzotto speaks about the italian experience, although we know that there have been some problems, especially in the most southern regions, the absorption rate for the european social fund in italy is around the eu average. approximately 60 % has already been claimed and we could mention a large number of projects, such as one excellent project which has already created 16 000 apprenticeships for young people, something that is so important in this period of long economic crisis. when it comes to the future role of the financial instruments, let me answer ms zimmer here, although she has left the chamber. i believe that increasing the share of european social fund financing, for those who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, from about 13 % to 20 % in the future regulation is of quite significant importance, but this is not the only way that the esf can support those on the margins of society. this is closely connected with employment and employability, but aid for the most deprived exists in another fund to support the most deprived, the most needy. so as far as the social dimension of the eu budget is concerned, we should not only look to the esf, but we should also make use of the other funds that are already in operation or are newly created: the youth employment initiative, the fund for aid for the most deprived, the globalisation adjustment fund and the employment and social innovation programme. when we want these funds to function in practice, we do not want just to spend money in the member states, we also want to deliver change, competitiveness and reforms. the youth guarantee, which has also been mentioned today, is one of the most important reforms on the agenda and it has to be implemented urgently. the preparations are ongoing and the commission has to receive the youth guarantee implementation plans in the coming weeks in order to start funding this programme from january in those member states where at least one region has a youth unemployment rate higher than 25 %. so let me thank again everyone who has contributed to the debate today and also all those in the commission who have been working in this area. this is a very important endeavour. we need to have these instruments functioning as soon as possible. that requires the same resolve in the programming phase and also in the implementation.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to join in the thanks and in particular to thank once again the rapporteurs for the various funds and the shadow rapporteurs. the debate was very impressive indeed - and i think that what mr pieper said was very clear - that everyone had to make some concessions, and that, as we know, the art of the possible is that when you are in politics you end up with a result that is a viable majority. i don't think anyone in this room can say that he has stood by his ideas 100 percent. this is the democracy we live in, the democracy we live with all our heart and soul, and it is the democracy that leads to a result at the end of the day after very long negotiations. i would also like to say to all those who have stressed the role of the esf today that the essence of the structural funds as a whole is to create growth and hence jobs. investment in the cohesion funds will also create a large number of jobs during the implementation phase and in the subsequent operation. the regional fund is a very effective means of stimulating the economy and creating jobs. the social fund also contributes to sustainable skills. it is a question of intelligently combining the different funds. i am therefore very pleased to have already noted in the discussions with the member states in advance that the practitioners are very keen to use the re-implemented multifund instrument in order to bring the two funds into line and to use them in a certain intelligent and smart way. i regret that in the discussion - i would say - 95% of the achievements, the new priorities for the future were not sufficiently addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that each of the 274 regions of europe has to develop a smart specialisation strategy, for example, and that it must be clear where the economic priorities lie, where the investment priorities must also lie in terms of sectors, in order to create jobs in a sustainable way, is a major achievement of which we can all be proud here in the house. and, as i said, i would like to thank once again all those who have contributed intensively in the last weeks and months to this viable outcome of the negotiations. and it has been sufficiently stressed that it is important that we get a decision now because - i think my predecessor has already said this - the member states have already started planning very substantially, building on the discussions that have taken place here, and any further delay would have a considerable impact on the way in which we can decide on programmes and get to work. once again, thank you very much not only for your passionate debate today but above all for the intensive work you have put in over the months - or even years - that have gone before.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i consider that this afternoon’s debate has demonstrated just how significant a role regional policy will play when it comes to solving the many challenges that we face, not least given the facts of the economic and financial crisis. i absolutely agree with all those who were saying that we can – or rather you can, after today’s ep vote on the mff – send yet another encouraging signal to our union’s citizens by voting for the cohesion package tomorrow. now, many of you have expressed concerns as regards the future application of macroeconomic conditionalities. in response to this, i would like to stress that a number of safeguards have been introduced, for instance, taking into account various social and economic factors in order to avoid the potential adverse effects of a possible suspension. furthermore, the ceilings on suspensions are in place, while suspension of payments is definitely a last resort measure. as regards the esf minimal share, i would like to stress that we all agree that we need to increase resources to tackle problems relating to unemployment, including youth unemployment, labour mobility and social inclusion as well as combating poverty. it is obvious that the esf is the key financial instrument to address these issues. however, we need to concentrate resources on objectives not funds, and as madam pérez rightly pointed out, it is implementation which is important here; it is implementation by our member states which is the crux of the matter now. after more than a year of negotiations, i feel that we can be proud of the outcome of our shared efforts. the future cohesion policy will focus on investment in key areas for growth and jobs as outlined in the europe 2020 strategy. once again i would like to express my sincere thanks to everyone for the excellent cooperation between our two institutions.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would first like to set things straight. i think that everyone agrees on the substance of the problem with regard to the european social fund. i was even dizzy this afternoon when i saw that, in the end, in every speech, everyone spoke of the need to give maximum support to the european social fund and social policies, social cohesion, the integration of young people and the fight against unemployment! i've never seen such a mobilisation! i therefore think that my report on the european social fund will be adopted unanimously tomorrow. but, in the end, constanze krehl just told us, compromise is not there to make people happy. yes, it may be! but the policies we vote for are there to be effective on the ground. finally, two points which were discussed this afternoon were not unanimously agreed. the first is the minimum share of 23.1 - 25%. but that 25% is not just a trickle. this is the result of a reflection on the european commission's proposal. i believe that in this period of extremely high unemployment and crisis, we must maintain extremely ambitious return to employment targets because the time of our citizens, the time of training, the time of preparation for new jobs, is not the same. it's not the little red rag we're waving. it takes a lot of mobilization for a lot of efficiency. i do not wish you to have children or grandchildren, like many citizens, who are caught up in the dynamic of unemployment that we are experiencing today. i think we should think about that tomorrow when we vote. and, of course, to macro-conditionality. tomorrow, every vote of members will be watched, every political group will be watched, every delegation will be watched and it is the european parliament that will be watched.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by evelyn regner and rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on improving the gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies and laying down related measures (com (2012) 0614 - c7-0382/2012 - 2012/0299 (cod)) (a7-0340/2013).
blue card question. what is it? mr president, i have some experience in the business world: i have been a managing director of several companies and what i know about personnel selection processes is that a great deal can be done or is done on the basis of relationships of friends, the club, society, acquaintances, what he has told me, what she has told me, but usually it is usually based on what he has told me. so, mr agnew, i would appreciate it if you would explain to me how we could achieve a gender balance in the company directives without setting up a quota method and following the usual practice that i have had the misfortune to know.
mr president, i would like to express my gratitude to mrs reding because, like her, i believe that progress in equality policies does not benefit women alone, but society as a whole. i therefore share the commission's objective of abolishing the glass ceiling so that women can be proportionally represented in listed companies. it is a fact that women are a vital force in our labour market, but they are undervalued and never reach the seats from which they can contribute to the progress of their countries. i will therefore always support transparent selection processes in companies when awarding positions of responsibility. despite the fact that we want to reach the same port, madam commissioner, there are some doubts about the interference with the freedom of enterprise, especially as regards family businesses and smes, which should be excluded. in spain, new initiatives are being launched in cooperation with businesses and we believe more in collaboration than in sanctions. but we certainly share the spirit of this directive and therefore we will not be rowing against what we consider to be an instrument which advances equality policies and aims to prevent the potential of so many capable women from being wasted.
mr president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs and the european commission - commissioner reding - for their efforts to ensure that women and men are effectively equal in the decision-making bodies of the enterprises. women bring competitiveness to the economy, and science and experience say that with the same technical ability, women are better at managing emotional intelligence. in addition, 60% of university graduates in europe are now women. only very deep psychological barriers explain why this data in hand does not more decisively encourage talented people of both sexes to join the board of directors under the same conditions. we are thus missing opportunities for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i welcome the progress and hope for more powerful measures in the future, such as the fiscal stimulus or the mandatory rotations we have proposed.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the commission for the proposal, because it has given us the opportunity to discuss a subject which i consider very important. i would also like to thank the members who have taken part in the drafting of this report for their work and enthusiasm. i think the proposal is important and significant, although i also think it could have been bolder: it could have included executive positions; it could have been more ambitious in terms of deadlines. small and mediumsized enterprises should have been included without leaving the matter to the discretion of the states. i am starting from the premise that any legislative effort to promote the full integration of women and equality in the business world is necessary. unfortunately, the business world is very masculine and the presence of women in decision-making bodies is still too low. as a good friend of mine says - and forgive the expression - "tie and pits are plentiful", and i hope that will start to change from tomorrow onwards. the directive, when adopted, will not bring parity to the management bodies of companies on its own. there must also be a social will to do so. laws alone do not make change; moreover, there is a need to raise awareness in the business world of the need to achieve gender balance. we are likely to encounter reticence and negative attitudes when implementing the directive; we have already seen the positions of some members... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am not saying that the european parliament should be a political body, but i am saying that it should be a political body, and i am not saying that it should be a political body, but that it should be a political body. we have done so, i would say, quite a few times, but always at inappropriate times: when we voted on budgets or when we voted on other matters, some kind of amendment was introduced which ended up voting on this question. this is the first time that it's been approached with a somewhat novel approach. we have expressed on several occasions in parliament a majority position in favour of the single seat and, above all, a position in favour of parliament itself being able to decide on its own seat. in fact, the last time we voted, not in the plenary but in the committee on constitutional affairs, the majority in favour of this matter was clear: 22 votes in favour and 4 votes against. this report by mr fox and mr häfner is intended to enable the european parliament to decide on its own seat and it obviously recognises that this enabling of parliament can only be done through a reform of the treaties. the report therefore proposes a single seat and that parliament should decide on it, and it recognises that the treaties must be amended, for which purpose it proposes an initiative by parliament aimed at amending the treaties. we have tried on occasion to organise our work in an autonomous way, for example last time, by grouping two partsessions into one week, and yet the court of justice of the european union ruled that we could not do so because we did not have the competence which parliament is now asking for in this report. i do not need to go into the reasons behind this proposal: there are economic reasons, environmental reasons and reasons for saving the effort of members of parliament and the people who work in parliament. i would also like to point out something which has been repeatedly stated: the report does not say what the single seat of parliament should be; in fact, the essence of the matter is that it is parliament which can and should decide on that seat. despite the title of this report, it does not take a position on any other issue than the seat of parliament, although it acknowledges that if a decision were to be taken on this issue, this would also affect the balance between the various institutions of the union. in short, we are in favour of a single seat, in favour of parliament being able to decide which seat to choose - without specifying in this report whether it is brussels, strasbourg or a third seat - and in favour of a rebalancing of the seat of the union's institutions.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, in two weeks’ time, the 9th wto ministerial conference will begin. it will be of great importance for the world trade organisation and for the multilateral trading system. for the first time in many years we are close to reaching agreement on certain elements of the doha development agenda. if members of the wto manage to achieve consensus, a central element of the outcome of the ministerial conference will be a trade facilitation agreement. such an agreement would provide tremendous benefits to traders around the world by improving customs procedures, increasing transparency, reducing red tape and allowing goods to move faster across borders. all members of the wto will benefit from this agreement. the biggest beneficiaries will be the developing countries and, particularly, smaller developing countries and the least developed countries. the agreement will help them to improve the functioning of their customs administrations, encourage the rapid development of regional trade and foster their integration into global value chains. the european union will provide assistance to those countries to help them with the process of implementing the agreement. an agreement on trade facilitation will go hand in hand with outcomes on a limited number of agricultural issues and on development issues, including those of particular interest to the least developed countries. agreement has already been reached on guidelines regarding preferential rules of origin applicable to imports from least developed countries, and on the implementation of the service waiver which sets out a number of ways in which we could help service providers from least developed countries and thereby contribute to the development of their service markets. although limited in nature, such a package should not be considered small. apart from the economic benefits it would provide, it would also have a tremendous systemic impact as it would constitute the first step towards the conclusion of the doha development agenda and would do justice to the development objectives of the doha round. if this conference is successful, it will open the door for further negotiations on the core issues of the doha round, including agriculture and market access for industrial goods, which need to be addressed at multilateral level. it will also help to move on to addressing further issues which, although not included in the doha mandate, are of tremendous importance to trading companies. a central element of the outcome will be a work programme in which all wto members commit to returning to the negotiating table. several other issues will also be discussed and possibly agreed at the ministerial conference. paramount among these may be the extension of the information technology agreement, negotiations on which resumed recently and are moving forward towards a substantive outcome. finally, considering the importance of the ministerial conference, the commission welcomes the fact that members of the european parliament will attend this event as part of the eu delegation, and the commission looks forward to further exchanges on the conference with members.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam commissioner, i appreciate your words. the internationalisation of our economy will undoubtedly be one of the pillars of economic growth; for this we need more economic liberalisation, fewer tariffs and fewer tariff barriers. but also, to maximize the impact of this trade liberalization, we need to implement macroeconomic policies consistent with this policy, for example, budgetary transparency, administrative simplification, consistent fiscal policies and investment in education and infrastructure. multilateralism must therefore be accompanied by such political measures. the fourth global review of the aid for trade initiative, held in july 2013, highlighted the importance of this aspect. but much remains to be done in this field. i agree with you on the importance of trade facilitators: a particularly useful tool for developing countries and also for our small and mediumsized enterprises. i would also like to welcome the opening of negotiations on the agreement on trade in services, known as tisa, because i have no doubt that this agreement will be a growth lever for the developed countries, but also for the developing countries, especially to improve their competitiveness. finally, i would like to emphasize the commitment of the european union, and of this house, in this field.
mr president, commissioner, today marks the end of more than two years of intensive work since the commission presented its reform proposal to us. i have to say that the final result is not the reform that the socialists would have made, but it is true that we have managed to alleviate and solve many of the difficulties that were presenting themselves for the agricultural and livestock sector with the initial proposal that was presented. that initial proposal forgot mediterranean agriculture, forgot european agricultural diversity and, i understand that thanks to the work of parliament, substantial changes have been incorporated, such as a convergence towards a flat, slower rate, in which we propose that no farmer should lose more than 30% of the current aid; greening more adapted to reality so that our producers can comply with those environmental measures; an increase in coupled payments to be able to serve the crisis sectors. today livestock farming is a sector in real difficulty and therefore various measures have improved on that initial text. the reform also leaves the member states free to take advantage of the opportunities that are open to them. the definition of active farmer is essential. we need to define the agrarian social models, support the men and women who are working, producing food, generating activity in the rural environment - so fundamental to tackle the problem that exists in these times of depopulation. let us therefore use this reform as an opportunity to define this social model. i would like to thank the work that has been done over the years by the organizations that have worked with us, by the commission staff, by the staff of the groups and, of course, by my own office.
mr president, commissioner, today is a historic day: for the first time since the creation of the european union, an agricultural reform has been agreed with the participation of parliament as a co-legislator. i think we should all congratulate ourselves this morning on having reached a balanced agreement which takes into account the interests of all european farmers. the regulations we are going to adopt this morning are much more in line with the reality of our farmers and stock farmers than the initial proposals put forward by the european commission, and i think that this approximation to the reality of production, both in the north and the south of the european union, has been possible in large part thanks to the intense work that has been done from this house. i sincerely believe that the reform of the common agricultural policy would have been very different from what is on the table today if parliament had not been involved in the negotiations. for regions such as my own, extremadura, the efforts made by this house have been decisive in taking account of the specific needs of their productive sectors. in conclusion, i would like to say that this reform is therefore the best reform that could have been adopted, not only in the interests of all farmers and livestock farmers, but also for a country like mine, for spain, with a very different problem from that of other european countries.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that this package on the common agricultural policy should guarantee more diversity in primary production in europe, not on a whim but because it is one of the foundations of our identity, it adds more value to production and is basic to other industries such as gastronomy and quality tourism, which generate employment and sustainable development. it is a cultural issue: it is in this primary area that tradition and innovation are best combined, and where there may be more opportunities to bring young people into the sector. we do not like the fact that the member states can centralize the programmes and unify criteria for very different situations. in this sector, the national boundaries and uniformity of this criterion do not correspond to production reality. as far as the first pillar funds are concerned, the territorial basis still carries too much weight; we welcome, however, the innovations in the second pillar relating to innovation and the combination of the cap with other european funds. thanks for the effort.
in closing statements by the commission and the council, i want to do something we do not normally do, which is to ask them to try to make their speech as short as possible because, although the council and the commission do not have a time limit, today we are very short on time - we have a big ceremony in an hour's time - and i would therefore ask them to make it as short as possible. (end of the interventions under the 'catch the eye' procedure)
i think it was a magnificent debate in every way. i think it is a debate which also has the particularity of being followed by millions of europeans who know the subject, who know what agricultural policy is, perhaps better than any other area we are discussing. i therefore think that this is a happy debate and i am sure that the vote we are going to take today at 12.30 p.m. will be worthy of the efforts of so many members who have been working for so long. congratulations to all of you and i'm sure the outcome will be what you deserve and we all deserve. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12.30 today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission's statement on the commission work programme for 2014 (2013/2838 ((rsp)). although only the commission presidency - vice-president šefčovič - and then the representatives of each of the groups will be speaking, i will ask everyone to exercise the utmost caution in order to arrive on time for the sakharov prize ceremony.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, it is a great pleasure to present to this house the commission’s work programme for 2014. this work programme is the culmination of an intense political dialogue between our two institutions, drawing on the state of the union debate, the meetings with the conference of committee chairs and the conference of presidents in october, this parliament’s resolutions and discussions at committee level in the form of structured dialogues. the political dialogue helps to generate a real consensus around key political priorities. this will mean that, as we enter a year of institutional transition and elections, citizens will see that there is a real sense of direction in the european union, a sense of purpose centred on the goals of completing the banking union and delivering on growth and jobs. the work programme underlines the commission’s determination to keep up the pace of work to deliver the reforms we have all agreed to over the past five years. in addition to a limited number of new initiatives, the commission has put the focus firmly on concluding legislative work on key proposals that are already on the table. we count on parliament’s strong support for this, and we also call on the member states to implement what has been agreed without delay. nowhere is that more important than on the multiannual financial framework. parliament has played a key role in reaching agreement on the eu budget, which is a catalyst for reforms, investments and support to communities across europe, and i warmly welcome the positive vote on this chapter of the mff yesterday. we now need to get the mff programmes off the ground as soon as possible to produce concrete results for citizens and businesses hit by the crisis. honourable members, we have worked hard under difficult circumstances to support the economic recovery and to restore the confidence of citizens and markets. we see positive signs today but we cannot afford any complacency. we can and must go further together. the commission launched the 2014 european semester last week. this is now a well-established exercise with a reinforced social dimension. but this year is, of course, the first time that the commission has delivered its assessment of the draft national budget which it published last friday, and work continues on the deepening of emu while ensuring full democratic control. that option of the single supervisory mechanism is transforming the banking landscape and this needs to be accompanied by an agreement on a single resolution mechanism as well as the bank recovery and resolution and deposit guarantee directives by the end of this parliamentary term. we also need to focus on how the eu can help those for whom recovery still seems a distant prospect rather than a reality. support for the young and unemployed is a particular priority. we must keep the pressure on member states to implement the youth guarantee and to use european funding intelligently and efficiently to help young people. six member states have already shared their draft youth guarantee implementation plans with us and we are working with the remaining member states to ensure that the plans are in place by the end of the year so as to ensure that the eur 6 billion of the youth initiative can be spent accordingly. further work on labour mobility and networking between public employment services is also underway. access to finance is another top priority. we have agreed changes to the cohesion rules that will pave the way for the new sme financial instruments. the commission will also follow up on the green paper on the financing of the economy with a new initiative in 2014. with economic recovery still fragile, we need to exploit the full potential of the single market and our trade agenda and force competitiveness across all sectors. europe’s economy needs a modern industrial base and streamlined regulation. this parliament has given much attention to the proposals in the two single market acts. adopting legislation in areas like electronic signatures, payments and switching bank accounts will not only have a direct economic knock-on for the digital single market; it will also be felt directly by citizens. energy is a major preoccupation for many european citizens. that is why we need to keep up the work to deliver a real single market for energy. we also need to look to the long term with a long lead time for investment in energy generation. this is reason why the commission will move ahead to start putting in place a clear framework for climate and energy policies beyond 2020. honourable members, we are a community of values and at a time when our attention is directed at the economy we must not lose sight of this. our freedoms sustain our prosperity. to grow and create jobs we must continue to safeguard and expand the freedoms of our citizens. the eu must also protect its citizens by adapting to new threats and challenges. concrete action in the coming months to finalise the data protection framework will have to ensure that citizens and companies can exercise their freedoms and rights in security. the commission will also be taking forward the reflection on the rule of law as well as feeding into the debate on the future of europe. and let us not forget our common objective to conclude discussions on the statute and funding of european political parties in good time before the next elections. in 2014 the commission will continue to defend european values and interests around the world and to show that it is a positive force worldwide through effective development and humanitarian aid directed to those most in need and through an active enlargement and neighbourhood policy that will continue to make the eu an anchor of peaceful development in our region and beyond. mr president, honourable members, this is the time to direct our energies towards making the most of the rest of this legislature, bringing all key proposals to conclusion and ensuring the smooth and timely start of mmf programmes. from the beginning, this commission has worked very closely with this parliament, its shared objectives and its common sense of the european good. let us maintain this spirit over the final months of the legislature and ensure that we do the maximum to show citizens what our union can achieve: a europe that is stronger, more united and open to the world. thank you very much for your attention and am looking forward to our discussions.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. we must be effective in showing the european citizens in the coming months that we are able to respond to their concerns and needs. my group does not want the commission to suffer from the 'symptom of the lame duck' - we want it to use the remaining year to fulfil its task and we would like it to think more about its legacy than about the difficulties of the present, and we would like that legacy to be a turn, a political turn towards some priorities. firstly, a shift towards growth, job creation, quality of employment and protection of the rights of all workers, especially those posted within the union who, at the moment, see their rights at risk in different countries. secondly, a shift towards the fight against youth unemployment: at present, fifteen countries in the union have a youth unemployment rate of between 20% and 30%; six of these countries have a rate of over 30%; four have a rate of over 40%; two have a rate of over 50%. only six countries have adopted their youth employment guarantee schemes; i ask the commission to keep pushing them. thirdly, a shift towards the fight against inequality and towards territorial and social cohesion. the decision to apply conditions and requirements of macro-conditionality, with possible sanctions on the countries which need the funds the most, is a wrong decision, it goes in the opposite direction to what we need. the decision to reduce the european social fund at a time of maximum crisis is also going in the wrong direction and in the opposite direction. only if we reach 25% of the total funds will we be able to maintain the current social policy of the european social fund and not to reduce it in the coming years when we are faced with an unprecedented social crisis within the union.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would also like to thank all those honourable members who appreciated the brevity and the structure of the commission work programme for 2014. i can assure you that it was not an easy task to set the correct priorities because, out of several hundred legislative proposals on the table of the legislator, we had to select very clear top priorities, and there are 26 of them. i think members can see that we have tried our best to focus our work for the remaining months of this legislature on really delivering on the proposals which can bring the highest eu value added or which contribute the most to economic growth and job creation in europe. as you will see from our annexes, we have included for the first time a very clear section on the refit programme. this is how we are approaching the reduction of administrative burden priorities. you will also see the proposal for the directives or regulations which we are suggesting that we can get rid of in the next period. i believe that this is the model which the commission will also follow in the future. mr duff referred to the need for better programming for the future. i have to say that his remarks very much echo the thrust of the discussion i had yesterday with the foreign and european ministers in the general affairs council, who also realised that if we want to better tackle our implementation gap and to be more efficient, we need to work on our programming and planning and to align the work of the working groups in the council, as well as the committee sessions in parliament. so we are moving with our priorities at more or less at the same speed. i also appreciated the call made by several ministers for the three institutions to sit down together, after the next european elections, to look at the current framework agreement which we have signed between parliament and the commission, and of course to start work on the agreement which would involve the council because this would allow us to plan our work much better and provide much better efficiency in the future. i can, of course, assure you that it will be very important for the commission that the communitarian method is followed and that the right of initiative of the commission is respected in any future arrangement. mr szájer highlighted the importance of industrial policy. i would like to reassure him that in january the commission will come forward with an appropriate communication as well as our in-depth analysis on the main drivers of energy prices, because we see energy prices as being a very important factor in the competitivity of the european economy. therefore we would like to bring forward both of these communications at the same time so we can adopt appropriate measures. mr guerrero salom very rightly pointed out that unemployment is the key problem in the european union. we know that to tackle it appropriately we need bigger and more robust growth. we also have to reflect the fact that the creation of jobs usually lags six months to one year behind economic growth. therefore, it must be our top priority, and i would like to assure you that we are doing our utmost to motivate the member states to work on the youth guarantee schemes because we really want all those member states where youth unemployment especially is very high, to be ready and to use the potential of the eu funding as of 1 january next year. the commission will be ready and we hope the member states will be ready as well. i can say the same to mr paksas about labour taxation. we are pushing very hard and he will find it in most of our country-specific recommendations where we advise the member states to move away from overly-high taxation on labour to more growth-friendly taxation because very often these taxes prevent labour mobility and they prevent job creation. therefore, there must be concerted action on support for creation of new jobs, but taxation policy must also be adjusted when it comes to labour. thank you very much for highlighting the importance of the administrative burden, and the importance of legislating only in those cases where we can clearly demonstrate eu value added. as i said yesterday to the ministers, and as we have discussed many times here in this house, this must be a common effort. we will make the proposals – we have already made quite a few on how to reduce the administrative burden and of course these proposals must be approved by the co-legislator – but most importantly they must be transposed correctly at national level. the member states must avoid the gold-plating which very often complicates the application of eu law and increases the administrative burden. we will do this with a lot of energy. we will do it on a regular basis. we will have annual reports and we will also have, this time, scoreboards which will focus on the efforts of the member states – on how they are doing and on what kinds of efforts they are deploying to reduce the administrative burden at national level as well. we hope that healthy competition will come out of this and that we will be able to report good progress at eu and national level, hopefully in one year’s time. mr borghezio referred to the tragedy in lampedusa. i would like to inform him that the task force for the mediterranean is working very hard. they will report on their findings and their proposals for further action at the beginning of december already and i believe that this will be debated here of course, in parliament, but also in various council configurations. a last word on ttip and the negotiations between the european union and the united states. we know how important these negotiations are. we know what the potential price is of adding an additional eur 119 billion to the eu’s gdp on a yearly basis. we know how important this would be for setting new standards for new products and for new technologies, and i know how important it is to defend european priorities and to negotiate in a very ambitious spirit. this is exactly what we are doing, because our top priority is to get the best possible deal for eu citizens and eu businesses.
i do not want to close the debate without emphasizing how comfortable and pleasant it has always been to work with you. we will certainly miss you. the vice-president has referred to the forthcoming elections and it is common knowledge that whenever elections of this kind take place, there is usually a minister who holds a seat in parliament and a minister who holds a seat in the commission. i hope that the arrival of these ministers in parliament and the commission will enable them to learn a great deal, to understand and to develop - with the same enthusiasm as they have shown in defending the intergovernmental method - the community method, which is the basis of the project of european construction.
mr jadot, the vice-president has answered as he thought fit and each of us has our right, of course, to be more or less satisfied with the vice-president's answer.
mrs šuica, colleague and friend, some of you will of course know that i had the privilege of being in vukovar on a couple of occasions, including when we celebrated the restoration of the magnificent building that was the workers' house. i feel very much connected with everything that has to do with vukovar and therefore i am moved and glad to be chairing this debate in the presence of such distinguished guests. the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon) written declarations (rule 149)
in writing. - i voted against this draft budget because it implies the implementation of the policy of austerity at the level of the european institutions. in a context of crisis, and in the face of evidence that the austerity policy implemented in the countries of southern europe is being the mechanism for the destruction of the welfare state from which financial capital is the only beneficiary. the budget adopted accepts the cuts proposed by the council except for some items which it even increases, including the item to allocate more funds to frontex. parliament approves more funding for the walls of fortress europe and less for the inside. this is the austerity of the european economy in the name of financial interests. that is why i voted against this draft budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to reduce the negative impact that cuts in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 may have on the reduction of structural funds for cyprus. the report notes the mobilisation and approves the mobilisation of the flexibility mechanism to compensate for losses on certain items of the 2014 budget and welcomes the proposal to ensure that within this mobilisation the funds needed for the implementation of the structural policies so necessary for the cypriot economy are unequivocally guaranteed. the report approves the proposal to mobilise these funds for cyprus as quickly as possible. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves the release of funds to mitigate the serious consequences of the disasters in romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. the eu solidarity fund should continue to function properly and as effectively as possible to ensure the capacity to respond to any disasters that may occur on the continent. the european budget must be a tool for improving the lives of citizens, and if it is not able to cover emergency aid, such as floods and droughts, it cannot be considered as such. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it mobilises funds to mitigate the serious consequences of the disasters in romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. the eu solidarity fund has proven to be the most effective way possible to ensure the capacity to respond to disasters that may occur on the continent. this mobilization of resources to cover the reparation is the least that the different european peoples can do for any disaster that has occurred in europe. global warming is expected to increase the likelihood of such climate disasters, which will require such mechanisms to help people who are suffering from the crises caused by climate change. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves the release of funds to combat the most serious effects of the crisis in spain, italy and france. the european social fund, in its normal functioning, should ensure the financing of projects aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion in the member states. the european union is being forced to make all these budgetary adjustments because the payment commitments made during the year were greater than the funds actually available. with the reduction of the next multiannual financial framework these funding problems will become more serious. if we are to fight poverty, we must mobilize resources, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it involves the allocation of almost 8 billion euro within the multiannual financial framework, at the same time as the most basic rights of european citizens are being denied. this is a technology that can have interesting applications and also, without a doubt, important military applications. but i voted against it because it involves a transfer of public funds to technology companies, 9 billion euros could make a fundamental difference in solving problems of ordinary european citizens. if there are indeed scarce resources, as austerityists suggest, why not devote them to the most basic needs, instead of enriching an industry which is incapable of creating jobs for citizens? that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a macrofinancial assistance which is linked to the jordanian government implementing economic and political reforms geared to the economic interests of the european union. in this line, at the end of 2012 taxes were introduced on the consumption of diesel which led to major protests of the population by attacking the basic needs of the population. this aid will always be conditional on the imf having previously granted the country to deepen the neoliberal economic reforms whose effects have led to the economic crisis we are suffering today. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in preventing drug producers from operating within the member states of the european union. the report seeks to sanction this agreement to prevent the import of chemicals which are used in the manufacture of drugs. there are 23 drug precursors that are routinely imported at the border between russia and the eu, representing a trade of almost 5 million euros. this is a very small amount but it can allow the manufacture of large quantities of drugs. europe is a big consumer of drugs and this kind of import is the first step towards manufacturing them. attacking imports means attacking production, and preventing final consumption. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it rejects the council's proposal on cooperation with third countries through europol. this agreement would pose a major risk in the area of data protection for european citizens, since it establishes cooperation with third countries with much more lax legislation in this area. the report calls on the council not to implement its decision because any exchange of personal data with third countries must be carried out in compliance with the guarantee of respect for the privacy of european citizens in accordance with union law. since these guarantees have not been met, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the current model of european research infrastructure consortia is not working properly as no associated or third country has participated in them to date. this report approves a minor amendment to council regulation (ec) no 723/2009 with the aim of allowing the participation in such consortia of entities from associated and non-associated third countries. the amendment to the wording of the regulation aims to remove the limitation on the participation of more countries in such consortia and to encourage a positive impact on the research sector. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
madam president, i believe that the report by mr van nistelrooij and mrs krehl on cohesion policy is a good report which will help the member states to get out of the crisis and will certainly increase social cohesion and economic growth. that is why the vote was in favour, logically, and above all because progress has been made in the possibility of covering several funds. the creation of crossborder regions has also been made possible; co-financing has been increased, especially for the most disadvantaged regions and also for regions in transition, and it is in line with the thematic concentration that marks the same objectives of the 2020 strategy. macro-conditionality has been decaffeinated and will therefore not be an obstacle to access to funds. as regards ex ante conditionalities, compliance with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the removal of barriers to disability is particularly important.
in writing. - we cannot accept that citizens continue to pay for a crisis that they did not create, we cannot allow the austerity measures that the conservatives propose as a solution to continue to be applied when it has already been shown that they are counterproductive and lead only to social suffocation and the destruction of the welfare state. i have therefore opposed the proposal on the common provisions on european funds, because a cut of eur 7 billion in the european social fund would mean an increase in the problem of unemployment and thus more hunger, more social exclusion and more inequality in europe.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it makes the cohesion funds into a tool for blackmailing the member states of the european union. the so-called macro-conditionality implies that the council or the commission can request the blocking of the above-mentioned cohesion funds if the member state in question does not comply with the neoliberal policies set out in the specific recommendations. it is the instrument which will make it possible to threaten any member state which has an economic policy which is different from the suicide which austerity policies involve. i reject this report in the strongest possible terms because it is a weapon with which to extort the sovereignty of the member states from the troika.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it seeks to ensure that the objectives, which i share, of the european social fund are met, it is ultimately about implementing the objectives of the 2020 strategy. the report contains many very worthy positions, but it also includes coordination with the other economic policies of the european union. the report includes an amendment which makes the operation of the esf subject to the development of projects aimed at economic growth. although i agree with the approach, in practice it will mean that the esf will finance private enterprises and disregard social inclusion duties. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - as the european social fund is the largest budgetary item of the european structural and investment funds and the european union's main instrument for job creation and labour market support and, by extension, for combating social exclusion and inequality, i fully support any renewal and extension of its scope. the new regulation, among other things, envisages strengthening the eu's social dimension by obliging member states to invest 80% of esf resources in social investment priorities and the remaining 20% in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which i consider a major step towards achieving the europe 2020 objectives. i sincerely believe that, however, there is still a long way to go and a lot of money to be spent, although i am pleased with the outcome of the negotiations with the council and the commission, for example the extension of the eligibility criteria for age and unemployment in the youth employment initiative and the greater flexibility in the macroeconomic conditionalities.
madam president, i want to say that the report is a positive report, and that is why we voted in favour of it. basically, it is interesting the thematic concentration and the derivation that is made, whether it is a developed region, in transition or less developed, to the fight against climate change, to low-carbon economies. for the first time, 5% of these erdf funds are being allocated to cities, which we find very interesting, and integrated territorial strategies are also being put in place to enable several funds to participate in the same operational programme. the only point on which i disagree is that corsica, sardinia and the balearic islands - where i come from - do not have the possibility of flexibility on thematic issues and that is therefore the only point on which we would disagree with this report. we also believe that everything that this report can do to combat the crisis is positive.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains amendments which could improve the functioning of the erdf, it does not adapt the erdf to the neo-liberal objectives of growth. the report approves at first reading the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing regulation (ec) no 1080/2006 of the european parliament and of the council. it introduces very important changes which may allow the financing of projects which may have a positive impact on many regions, such as the commitment to local community development, infrastructure development, etc. this source of finance is indispensable if there is to be real cohesion in europe. however, by subordinating the objectives of this fund to strategy 2020, it is overridden by the objectives of the markets. that is why i voted against.
madam president, we have supported the report by mrs riikka pakarinen because we believe that the increase in funding, especially in the areas of transnational, transregional and crossborder cooperation, is particularly important for europe at this time. however, i must make one caveat: the maximum distance of 150 kilometres for access to these funds has not been removed - in the case of many islands, for example, but especially the balearic islands - even though the abolition of this maximum distance for access to these funds was advocated in several resolutions of parliament and in other statements by the committee of the regions and the european institutions. this limit has not been removed and therefore the balearic islands and many other islands are excluded from these crossborder cooperation funds. i wanted to report him at this moment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, unlike the previous report, it has the clear aim of supporting european territorial cooperation, rather than supporting the neoliberal agenda of the markets. the policy of cooperation in europe is more fundamental than ever, the peoples must be solidarity mechanisms to face the crisis. the report introduces key points such as emphasising lessons learned from other regions or projects to improve the effectiveness of projects developed or ensuring that projects financed with erdf funds involving third countries also benefit member states. there are many provisions which will improve the functioning of this fund. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
madam president, i would like to stress the positive aspects of mr boştinaru's report on the cohesion fund, basically because, without any doubt, concentrating the cohesion fund on the thematic objectives already set out in the 2020 strategy will lead to greater progress with regard to the implementation of this programme in the past. the important new features of this fund would be everything related to energy efficiency which was already included in the thematic objectives of the general regulation and the use of renewable energy in the housing sector, as well as support for improved efficiency of district heating and cogeneration of heat and electricity. we are very positive about all this and therefore believe that the approval of this fund with these changes to adapt it to the 2020 strategy will help to combat inequalities between member states and to make progress in the fight against the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a suitable commitment to a type of integration which allows for balanced territorial development which is socially and environmentally sustainable. the report proposes a way of working for the cohesion funds that introduces ambitious environmental objectives while ensuring action in all those member states whose gdp is less than 90% of the european average. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the legislative package for cohesion policy 2014-2020, comprising five european structural and investment funds, was adopted today in plenary. the composition of the individual funds and the overall plan has been simplified to achieve better targeted programmes with a high degree of visibility of results and a more appropriate distribution of funds. i strongly support these budgets in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, which provide the eu and spain in particular with great development opportunities for both the most advanced and the most punished regions. for example, we have unrivalled advantages from the european regional development fund (erdf), which applies to different innovation, research and sme support programmes to reduce regional disparities between the eu, or the cohesion fund, which applies to europe's less developed and transition regions (with less than 90 per cent of gdp of the european average) and focuses on sustainable development projects such as energy efficiency, decontamination, infrastructure and green transport systems.
madam president, the commission and parliament have proposed in this report to amend the regulation on the european grouping of territorial cooperation, and we think that this has been very positive. there are many projects under way, and i would like to highlight one in particular: there is a hospital on the border between france and spain, and it was clear during the challenges of recent years that there were difficulties in the application of labour legislation and also in the application of the regulation itself. the legal framework has therefore been adapted to these challenges. in particular, these amendments make more specific application of labour law, which has undoubtedly given much greater legal certainty. so we think it's very positive that we can use the instrument safely.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it amends the regulation on the functioning of european territorial cooperation groupings in a positive way. such crossborder groupings make it possible to set up cooperation instruments around specific objectives bringing together actors from different territories of the union. the report seeks to adapt the legislation on crossborder groupings of this type to the new cohesion policy framework for the next financial period 2014-2020, seeking to facilitate and improve their functioning. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a commitment to try to achieve equality for men and women in working conditions, a fundamental condition for the rule of law. this report focuses on the need to achieve gender balance in non-executive administrative posts in public and private enterprises by 2018 and 2020 respectively. the report arises from the fact that there are significant gender gaps in this area. it is very clear that this is not the main gender issue we are facing on the continent, but at least this report is trying to make progress towards equality in this sector. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the amendments calling for the exclusion of family businesses from the scope of the directive, since they are only listed companies; moreover, the legislation provides for a margin of manoeuvre for member states to adapt the obligation to national circumstances.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it means the final approval of the proposal for the new common agricultural policy, which means a massive cut in the funds available while lowering the requirements to allow landowners to apply for funds for their uncultivated land by redefining 'permanent pasture'. we reject any cuts in the cap budget, as this is a sector which needs support because of the high rates of abandonment of farmers. this policy is intended to leave behind an agricultural policy that does not allow the benefit for economic, social and environmental sustainability, and to continue to allow the futility of guaranteeing unfair rents and agribusiness. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - parliament, for the first time, has decided jointly with the council on this important matter for the european union as a whole. the improvements introduced in the new common agricultural policy are intended to enable all regions of europe, whatever their type of agricultural activity, to improve their competitiveness. the new policy aims to strike a balance between food security and environmental protection, to encourage support for active farmers and to encourage young farmers by increasing extra support by 25%. the aim was to ensure a fair distribution of funds, but as far as spain is concerned, the european funds have not been maintained and this will be detrimental to catalonia, which will receive less of this aid and will therefore lose resources with the consequent impact on its competitiveness. from my position, i will continue to advocate rural and agricultural development programmes in order to promote regional competitiveness.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains positive provisions for the financial sector in relation to the obligation to report, i do not believe that this will provide a definitive protection for customers. this report comes after the scandal of preferential shareholdings where thousands of people were defrauded, despite the fact that there was already a european directive and spanish legislation prohibiting this type of practice. the previous legislative framework has shown that there is no political will to prosecute such infringements. the report seeks to improve the requirements for information distributed to customers, a positive measure, but one which comes too late and too lightly and without condemning the previous excesses of the sector, after the multimillion-dollar scams that are being carried out today. that is why i could not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - although we have not achieved the reform of the common agricultural policy that the socialists would have wished for, we have achieved a more satisfactory reform than the one initially proposed. it benefits young people and small farmers and leads to a fairer distribution of aid, since it will be specifically targeted at active farmers. it also reconciles food safety with environmental protection, by achieving greater flexibility in direct payments conditional on environmental measures. it is now the turn of minister arias cañete to reflect these improvements effectively by defining the role of the active farmer in accordance with our guidelines.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it proposes the operation of the european agricultural fund for rural development, which enables large companies and landowners to enrich themselves at the expense of funds intended for the development of rural communities. thanks to this proposed regulation for the period 2014-2020, there is no reference to the main issues facing the sector: food security and food sovereignty, as well as the maintenance of the public sector in agriculture, etc. but all this has not been included, allowing public funds to be used to enrich agro-industry while farmers continue to disappear in rural europe. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. i voted against this report because it is another missed opportunity to maintain a misrule which allows the continuation of the common market organizations which serve to allow very low remuneration for farmers and the enrichment of the dominant groups in the marketing system. we have advocated the establishment of maximum margins for the profits of intermediaries, and we have also proposed that the labour rights of agricultural workers be protected, including the location of production and consumption, etc. a policy has been maintained to ensure the profits of the distributing companies which can continue their price-fixing practices on farmers. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it allows for an unfair distribution of aid and direct payments among european farmers. the legislation adopted allows the large landowners to continue to enrich themselves, in contrast to proposals to set maximum limits on the receipt of direct payments; parliament has vetoed them to maintain the privileges of rentier families. some measures are introduced, such as increased support for small farmers, which should be the centre of such a policy, but is a marginal part of it. our commitment to a living rural world is not reflected in these rules and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a proposal to allow a gradual transition from the 2007-13 cap to the 2014-2020 cap. the new cap should start to be implemented from 1 january 2014, but this report proposes a framework to smooth the changeover both in the policies relating to the first pillar, i.e. direct payments and market measures, and the second, which is aimed at rural development. we consider it a positive step that the member states should be able to benefit from this system in order to be able to adapt to the changes entailed by the profound change that the new cap entails. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows the implementation of numerous regional policy projects in member states with economic difficulties. the report proposes to relax the conditions for the implementation of eu-funded projects in these member states. in particular, they provide for the possibility of increasing the cofinancing rates and extending the release periods. these two measures should help the above-mentioned states to be in a position to meet their obligations and implement these projects which are part of cohesion policy. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it concerns the mobilisation of funds to meet the emergency situation which the economic crisis is causing in some member states. the report proposes to activate the european social fund to combat discrimination and the increase in poverty caused by the crisis in some member states. it is a palliative measure which does not put an end to the economic policy which is imposed and which is the cause of these situations; it is a small cure which does not solve the problems which austerity creates, but which is an effective help to the millions of europeans who are having a very difficult time. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against the amendments calling for the european social fund to be increased to include other countries with similar needs so that the interinstitutional agreement could be adopted and enter into force quickly; however, i support the underlying criticisms in the amendments regarding the lack of transparency of the eu council's procedure in the mff negotiations and, in particular, the positions taken by a member state threatening to leave the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is the fruit of a fair negotiation process between the european union and the republic of kiribati. the report is an improvement on the protocol allocating eur 1 325 000 per year to support the fisheries policy of kiribati. this report covers an agreement allowing access to the exclusive economic zone of kiribati. as kiribati has signed a number of tuna fisheries agreements, the agreement imposes an obligation on vessels from portugal, spain and france to comply with the sustainability criteria for tuna fishing in kiribati's waters when operating in those waters. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - as a socialist rapporteur, i voted in favour of the protocol between the european union and the republic of kiriwati, initialled by the commission on 3 june 2012. the protocol, which fixes the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution, has been provisionally applied since 16 september 2012 for a period of three years. the first fisheries agreement with kiriwati in 2003 made it possible for the european fleet to be present in the pacific. the new protocol builds on the 2007 fisheries partnership agreement and enables 10 european vessels (including four purse seiners) to exploit resources responsibly in the kiriwati exclusive economic zone and contributes to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy. the financial contribution is eur 1 325 000 per year for the period, including eur 350 000 per year in additional support for the fisheries sector in kiriwati. the protocol, according to the conclusions of parliament's legal report, is compatible with the nauru agreement, a multilateral agreement between eight countries in the area, which establishes the vessel day scheme (vds) methodology, provided that it is implemented in line with the international commitments undertaken by the eu. the european commission has made an explicit commitment to this end.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an attempt to rationalize the expenditure involved in the existence of three seats for the european parliament. since the treaty on european union provides for the existence of the three seats, parliament cannot decide on its own location. this report seeks to give parliament's position on this, the multiplication of expenditure it entails and the need to avoid waste in these times of crisis. this report makes clear parliament's position in favour of a single seat to reduce the economic and environmental impact of the institution. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it raises the question of the rational functioning of this public institution.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the new horizon 2020 framework programme comes at a crucial moment when europe must rely on research and innovation if it is to increase its competitiveness and create quality jobs. it's been almost two years of intense work. but i think we can all be proud of the agreement that has been reached, which also comes just in time for the programme to be implemented on time at the beginning of 2014. ladies and gentlemen, our scientists and european industry are going through very difficult times, especially in some of our member states, and it was our responsibility that horizon 2020 should not be delayed. we have drawn up a framework programme adapted to the difficult socioeconomic situation and the needs of the union. a knowledge-based economy requires scientific excellence and innovation-driven industrial leadership, as well as innovative responses to the social challenges that most concern citizens. the core of the programme will remain pre-competitive, medium-sized transnational cooperation projects, which will have a broader focus to cover the whole innovation chain. the parliament, thanks to the coordinated efforts of all the groups, has improved the original text proposed in several respects which i should like to stress. first, by reinforcing the excellence of our science and our research staff. we cannot continue to tolerate talent being wasted or forced to emigrate for lack of opportunity. we have therefore proposed measures to strengthen our capacity to attract, retain and promote the best talent. we have increased the budget for the marie curie actions and included a human resources indicator so that this factor is taken into account in the evaluation of horizon 2020. secondly, we have strengthened the channels of participation, with measures to support excellence wherever it is found. the new priority 'spreading excellence and widening participation' will help to open the programme to a wider range of participants. the agreement will also ensure a better and wider participation of smes, as we have increased the budget devoted to them and strengthened the new sme instrument. this was one of parliament's priorities because smes, ladies and gentlemen, are the main job creators and an essential player in bringing research results to the market through innovation. thirdly, clean energy and energy efficiency have also been strengthened by the agreement. in support of the eu's co2 reduction targets, parliament has secured 85% of the total budget for the social challenge 'energy' for research and innovation in these areas. fourthly, fundamental principles have been strengthened. in the area of gender equality, we have extended the new article 15 to cover a two-fold dimension: strengthening the presence of women and integrating a gender perspective into the content of research. and for the first time, an article has been included guaranteeing free and open access to publications arising from research funded by horizon 2020. both of these elements also have a clear impact on the excellence and efficiency of the programme and on the profitability of its budget. ladies and gentlemen, i would not like to end without thanking the work of all those who have made this agreement possible. thank you all for what has been a fruitful team effort.
i believe, madam president, that research and its promotion are one of the pillars of the european construction. that is why i am satisfied with this programme and the way it has been drawn up and conducted. i would like to congratulate mrs teresa riera and the other rapporteurs. two critical remarks i would like to make, however: firstly, i regret that the humanities and social sciences are not given a more prominent place and that individual research - not that produced in teams - is so undervalued. if rousseau came here with his discourse on the origin and fundamentals of inequality between men, he would not get support because he would have no equipment and his work would not add any value to industry or the economy. and the same would have happened to kant with his critique of pure reason. secondly, i think that the next parliament will be a good time to set up a specific parliamentary committee for research. this idea of linking it to energy, industry, etc. is extraordinarily unfortunate, because it could just as easily be included or linked to agriculture or the environment. research deserves a special respect and therefore a special space, a space of its own for discussion and debate, as the basis for the great and good work being done by the european institutions.
madam president, we are here at the final moment and i want to focus on one of the most emblematic, most iconic programmes since the beginning of the european union. (the president cut short the speaker's speech because of an incident in the chamber. i would like to return to the subject which we really need to deal with this afternoon, namely horizon 2020, and i said that we are dealing with a matter which is an emblematic programme, an icon of the european union's joint action. probably after the common agricultural policy, the common research policy - or at least funded by a common programme - has been the other flagship of the european union for many years now. i think this is extraordinarily important, for two fundamental reasons. firstly, because of the synergy it creates between all the intellectual and scientific talent in europe, which is naturally the same thing. secondly, because today more than ever, at this time of crisis - in some countries, indeed, dramatically - in europe, research is the driving force, in the long and medium term, for regaining a competitive position in the world. in this sense it will never be enough to stress the role of research in creating jobs and growth, which is what will generate jobs. i want to insist on just one subject area, as it has not been mentioned so far. information and communication technologies are not just a field per se, but permeate the whole activity of individuals, researchers, companies, etc. therefore, i believe that they should be given special attention in the work programme and in the monitoring and development of this framework programme. i congratulate the rapporteurs - i did not say so at the beginning - and also the commission on this work, which i believe is an extraordinarily important step forward, also compared with the previous framework programmes.
the question of the 'blue card'. i would like to ask mr obermayr - although i may not have much time to answer - to clarify a little more his opposition, and that of another colleague, so radical to stem cell research, which is one of the most important medical advances of the last half century and which is on its way to solving, is already on the verge of solving the diabetes of millions of people in the world, the problems of kidney failure, liver failure; in fact, tissue creation of these organs is already taking place in many laboratories. why such radical opposition?
madam president, i thank everyone for the work done to bring together all the european programmes to develop the knowledge economy. this will give them coherence and simplify access for users. the financial commitment and concepts contained in horizon 2020 should encourage states to understand that spending on innovation is investing and avoiding cuts. we need talent, generate technical and financial synergies and foster public-private collaborations. the innovation union needs the european regions with research and innovation concerns, through smart specialisation, and in this respect we are grateful for the special sensitivity of commissioner geoghegan-quinn, as was once again demonstrated during her recent visit to the basque country. we also support industrial policy for the globalisation era and networking to optimise the results of basic research. in short, it is a question of ensuring that the efforts made in r & d & i reach production as soon as possible. finally, i call for an effort to promote innovation, including social innovation, as a basic value of our society and to encourage the growth of students in technical-scientific disciplines.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to express my sincere thanks to all of those who have participated in the debate. i would like a little latitude to deal with a number of issues that are particularly pertinent at this point. first of all, a question was asked in relation to the guidelines on the eligibility of israeli entities active in the occupied territories. i just want to confirm that the negotiations for the association of israel to horizon 2020 will ensure the application of these guidelines. in relation to an issue that has been raised by many colleagues – stem cell research – i would like to remind people of what the situation is in framework programme 7. the approach has been to ensure a triple-lock system: first and foremost national legislation is respected, eu projects must follow the laws of the country in which research is carried out; secondly, in addition all projects must be scientifically validated by peer review and must undergo rigorous ethical review; and thirdly, eu funds may not be used for the derivation of new stem cell lines or for research that destroys embryos, including for the procurement of stem cells. we are proposing, in the proposal for horizon 2020, to do exactly the same as we did for framework programme 7. the commission tabled a statement upon adoption of the legislative package whereby it committed not to fund any research which would lead to the destruction of human embryos. mr turmes raised an issue, as did a number of other people, in relation to energy. on the first question, namely photovoltaic versus ether, we believe very strongly that we need to invest, not only in the short term, but also for the long-term solutions and we feel that what we have proposed is a balanced approach. on the intelligent energy programme: as mentioned in the commission declaration, the activities of the intelligent energy programme are continued under horizon 2020 and implemented by a dedicated management structure which includes further market uptake activities. on gender: i think it is significant, as somebody has already said, that the two commissioners dealing with this whole area are two women commissioners – and i am very proud of that fact. as regards horizon 2020, it will be the very first programme to have a legal obligation to include gender aspects in r&d. advisory groups set up in recent weeks are 50% female and there is a target of 40% female participation in evaluation panels. we decided that we should start at the beginning with the advisory groups and go all the way through the full range of research to ensure that the gender aspects are taken into account from the very beginning right through to the very end. i would like to thank everyone who made comments on horizon 2020 and once again to express my sincere thanks, not just to the rapporteurs but also to the shadow rapporteurs and the parliamentary committees who were all involved in this. we are now at the end of a process which started nearly two years ago when we published the commission’s proposal. but of course the work began some time before that with a very extensive consultation of all the relevant stakeholders to ensure a research and innovation programme which was tailored to their needs. throughout this process parliament and the commission have always kept in mind the people and the organisations that stand to benefit. some of those were mentioned earlier – researchers, businesses, industries, smes, regions and member states – but, most of all, as i said earlier, horizon 2020 is good for the people of europe. i think it is going to provide a much needed stimulus to job creation and competitiveness, and help our very best minds to find solutions for the issues that are important to people and that they really care about: health and old age, the food on our tables, sustainable energy and transport to keep europe moving and working, a secure europe today and a safe and liveable environment tomorrow. ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghlacadh leis na feisirí ar fad a ghlac páirt sa díospóireacht. tá an-áthas orm faoi sin agus tá an-bhuíochas agam dóibh siúd ar fad a d’oibrigh linn leis an gclár iontach seo a chur le chéile.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, first of all let me thank you for this very rich debate. i am happy to see that we share the vision of a european union which promotes excellent entrepreneurial education and focuses on innovation. i can only thank you for strengthening the eit and the marie skłodowska-curie actions. with your support, the eit will now begin the transition from a young organisation towards a fully-fledged innovation institute at europe’s service. the eit has the potential to become the innovation engine of europe, and this is how we are going to respond to the european paradox: that we have excellent research centres, excellent higher education institutes and very dynamic businesses, but we lack the products and services to go into the market. that is how the eit will help in that direction. also, more students will be able to join their peers who have already experienced the eit’s novel approach of blending entrepreneurship and higher education. more start-ups will emerge from the kic support and more new products and services will be created to help overcome some of the major societal challenges of our times. as many of you have referred to the importance of smes as the backbone of our economy, i would say yes, do encourage smes to be active and participate in the kics of the eit; many of them are active already. thanks to your work, the marie skłodowska-curie actions will become the main eu initiative for doctoral training. thanks to the participation of businesses in the training networks, researchers will acquire both specialist knowledge in their field and transferable competences such as entrepreneurship. to those who said that social sciences are neglected, let me remind you that, under the marie skłodowska-curie actions, one third of the participating researchers are in social sciences. also, in response to your comments about gender equality, let me remind you that one of the emphases that we give in the marie skłodowska-curie actions is the participation of women researchers. we have already set a target of 40 % participation of women and we have almost reached it. we now have a 39 % participation of women researchers. the commission remains committed to promoting excellence, wherever it may be located: in education, research and innovation. once again, thank you very much for your great support.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, first let me join both commissioners in thanking all the meps for a fruitful debate. our discussions this afternoon are important for europe’s future and for establishing the foundations of an innovative europe based on the largest research and innovation programme in the world. horizon 2020 strikes the right balance between supporting excellent science, boosting the competitiveness of our industries and helping tackle societal challenges. producing excellent science and research has historically been europe’s key asset. it has allowed europe to drive its economy to sustainable growth. it has helped our union to maintain its leading position in a highly competitive global market. our member states have vast experience in funding research, and building scientific capacity by applying excellence is the main criterion for selection. in completing the european research area, horizon 2002 will complement national and cross-border efforts and will strengthen the impact of investments in science, research and innovation made both by the member states and by our union. it will be a framework programme designed during a period of economic uncertainty but implemented during a period when we can hope to begin to see some economic recovery. research and innovation are not only there to provide gains to our economy but should serve to shape our long-term economic and social model for a union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all of your contributions have been extremely enriching throughout the process. just a couple more comments to conclude. we have a good programme, ladies and gentlemen, which will strengthen our science and innovation system. however, i would add that a strong system cannot stand alone: for science to be a true priority in public investment we need our citizens to share the values of science and to be able to recognise its contribution to knowledge, society and progress. we also need our universities, research centres and businesses to play a greater role in proposing ideas and identifying new opportunities. to this end, in horizon 2020 we have also strengthened the channels of dialogue between science and society, we have increased the percentage of bottom-up calls and we have opened the door to the creation of the scientific panel for health. ladies and gentlemen, we have a good instrument to get out of the crisis and create quality jobs. i therefore join those who deeply regret the cuts to the programme budget imposed by the council, contradicting their own theses in the europe 2020 strategy. we are convinced - as are most experts - that budget cuts, especially in times of crisis, should not affect those sectors which, like research, innovation and education, guarantee our capacity for growth and competitiveness. however, ladies and gentlemen, given the budget cuts being implemented in some member states, it was to be expected that this type of policy would be reflected in the community budget. for this reason, we have also strengthened synergies with the structural funds and other community policies; we have strengthened coordination with the member states to have a more efficient system and we have strengthened the mechanisms to attract private capital through the financing instruments. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would not like to end without taking away your promise that the texts we are going to vote on tomorrow will be faithfully developed by the commission in its work programmes. finally, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, the alternate rapporteurs, the commission and the council - please also convey my appreciation to the irish presidency - as well as the secretariat and the entire technical team: their enormous work and effort has been decisive in bringing the new horizon 2020 framework programme to fruition.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the whole commission and mr tajani on this because, for the first time, they have shown that europe is capable of internal coordination for innovation in all the directorates-general. i think this is a positive development in the face of the dispersion of the many dgs after the entry of so many countries in 2004. but above all, i would also like to congratulate you on the fact that this programme is aimed at young people, that you have understood the sensitivity of young people, and that the cosme programme and many other measures taken by the directorate-general are programmes of sensitivity. for example, with regard to orphan industries, 'creative europe' holds a huge future for the entire digital world of the creative film, games industry, which already has a home to address. the same is true of design. europe has conquered markets many times with design. and i say the same thing about start-ups. however, there are two issues that concern me. firstly, as some of our colleagues have already said, the issue of the lack of credit - we do not have instruments in many countries for the development of credit, we must work on this - and, above all, the coordination of research and results. it is not possible to repeat the same research, the same applications, the same ehealth, with small and scattered smes; we need to develop coordination instruments where knowledge is collected and can be disseminated.
madam president, the commissioner told us this afternoon that there are 23 million smes, which is 99% of all businesses. they are key to economic growth, social and labour integration. with the entry into force of the framework programme, we will have the cosme programme for competitiveness and horizon 2020 for innovation, although, as has already been acknowledged in the previous debate, there will be enough cuts to be affected. we asked for more money for cosme: cosme is insufficient. we are talking about financing: of the 2 298 million, 60% will go to financing. it's scarce, it's not enough. but above all, there is an additional problem that must be brought to the table: access to credit. what about access to credit? why don't banks lend to small business owners? because the pipes are clogged? what's going on in there? because, besides, the credits are given in the personal sphere, not in the business sphere. as for competitiveness and sustainability - that's the other 40% - competitiveness is about being able to stay open, and sustainability is about not having to close, because a lot of smes see the door open one day and they're quick to close it the next. we are very positive about the inclusion of tourism as a priority objective; it is a boost to the sector and to countries that are having a very bad time, and we value very much who is targeted, young people, women, immigrants. we are very positive about the entrepreneurship action plan - the value of the entrepreneur, the creation of companies as a way out of the crisis, the quality and sustainability of the work of the self-employed or the micro-enterprise - although we complain that we do not see clearly the promotion of young entrepreneurs - not the young "erasmus" anymore, but the entrepreneur - the support, the service, the financing. there is also the question of the eib, project financing - what about this? - and the role of cooperatives. i repeat, mr commissioner, the financial contribution from cosme is small, but the access to credit for small businesses is very small. this is also an issue which the commission must assess.
madam president, my colleague, mr lösing, has already made it clear that our group is totally at odds with most of the other groups in this parliament when it comes to describing what creates insecurity in the world and what force must be put forward to provide that security. we do not share that majority line at all. nato is not the answer; us military bases deployed around the world are not the answer. it's not our model. extrajudicial executions, secret prisons, widespread spying, increased military spending are not our model. it is not the answer to what creates insecurity in the world today, namely hunger and poverty. we therefore do not share - that is why we have tabled a minority report - nor do we welcome in this context that the republic of cyprus may take the steps to join nato. what we do believe creates insecurity in europe - specifically without leaving the european union - is that there is a sovereign state, cyprus, which is militarily occupied by a foreign force, turkey. this is the case, and that is not answered from a security point of view. so you will understand that we have tabled this minority report.
madam president, i welcome these two reports, as do many of the other speakers, and i congratulate the respective rapporteurs, especially my colleague eleni koppa. the december summit is of great significance. i have always, from my humble beginning as a member of parliament, stressed the importance of building a common security and defence policy worthy of the name, so that europe can play the role it must play in the world for its own existence and survival, so that it can be respected and heard by the rest of the world. this is something that is opposed by both the extreme right and the extreme left; it should help us to make an effort in the right direction on the issue of military, security and defence industry, which means employment, which means economic growth, which means new technologies. it's very important that we go in that direction.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their reports: security and defence matters remain important. threats and challenges remain, for example, failed states, terrorism, arms proliferation, humanitarian crises. tensions and conflicts will not be lacking in our world: it is a globalised and changing world, and the scale of these problems calls for joint action by the union, as in other areas. we are stronger together than apart. and, in addition, many security and defence problems arise in a close environment - i am thinking of libya, mali or syria - in short, in our neighbourhood. on the other hand, president obama's change in military policy, summed up in the doctrine of living from behind and the shift towards asia-pacific, makes it more necessary than ever to advance european defence policy. this requires political will, as well as economic and material means. the commission has already adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the economic crisis and the need for fiscal consolidation do not now make it easier to deepen defence policy, but reality forces us to do so. i hope that the next european council in december will be a major milestone in this process of deepening. the greater effectiveness of our civilian and military missions abroad, rapid response, the improvement of our capabilities, the strengthening of the defence industry - as vice-president tajani has pointed out - and the maritime security strategy are some of the important issues which must be on the agenda of the next european council.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank you all for the support you have given to this new financial instrument, and i would like pay tribute once more to the rapporteur, ms steinruck, who made a real impact on how this proposal was developed and paid attention to all the details. that mattered a lot. i heard that the instrument finally became somewhat smaller than had originally been proposed, but i believe that, through quality, we can indeed make a difference. this can be a powerful tool for moving towards the targets of the europe 2020 strategy, but only if we take social innovation seriously. the examples cited in the discussion – reconciling work and family life, integration of migrants in the labour market and education – are extremely important fields in which social experimentation and social innovation have played, and can play, an important role. these things are crucial from the point of view of employment as well as that of fighting poverty. mobility is very important in europe, especially in the european labour market, which will be very different in five or ten years’ time in terms of labour mobility. the european employment services (eures) system needs to be stronger, more powerful and more informative. that is why we are preparing a further proposal for reinforcing eures, which i hope you will receive very soon. i am glad to have heard the supportive voices, especially those of ms harkin and ms costello, on the importance of microfinance in ireland and also on the capacity of social enterprise and the social economy in the united kingdom. i have insisted that the eu needs microfinance support capacity: it has to continue in the next financial period and, since not every member state has been taking advantage of the progress microfinance facility, i would like to call on those member states which have not done so to consider drawing from this funding with the involvement of the european investment fund. there are many good examples from the past three years, which can be followed and used as models and sources of inspiration. the launch of easi will place responsibility on the commission, notably on dg employment, and i believe that in implementing this instrument we will be able to count on your continuing support and cooperation.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission’s communication on strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union (emu) proposed a new scoreboard of key employment and social indicators to be used during the european semester. the scoreboard consists of five headline indicators: the unemployment rate; the neet (not in http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/education" \o "education" , http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/employment" \o "employment" , or http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/training" \o "training" ) rate in conjunction with the youth unemployment rate; real gross household disposable income; the at-risk-of-poverty rate; and income inequalities. the commission presented the scoreboard and its first analysis in the draft joint employment report on 13 november 2013. to answer your first sub-question, the commission believes that the scoreboard should identify the most serious employment and social problems and developments at an early stage, and before a country diverges too strongly from its past performance or from the rest of the european union. the scoreboard does not include statistical thresholds, meaning indicative values supporting and clarifying the interpretation of the indicators themselves. the commission has been cooperating with the relevant committees of the council to this end by presenting its proposals on a technical level. regarding your second sub-question, the commission believes that the five headline indicators which i mentioned will indeed allow for better identification of major employment and social difficulties that need to be addressed in the interest of the eu as a whole and, particularly, the sound functioning of monetary union. further analysis based on the scoreboard should draw upon the existing battery of indicators already used during the european semester, in particular the joint assessment framework, the employment performance monitor and the social protection performance monitor. as the commission pointed out in the draft joint employment report, it is open to considering possible refinements of the scoreboard in future editions, taking into account parliament’s views. on your third sub-question regarding the age brackets for the youth unemployment and neet rates, i recall that the council recommendation on establishing a youth guarantee refers to young people under the age of 25. it is this age group for which robust policies and measures addressing the school-to-work transition are most crucially needed, although unemployment and inactivity also affect a substantial number of young people aged over 25. member states are free to expand their youth guarantee schemes to include those over 25, where relevant, and can use the resources of the european social fund or the youth employment initiative to that end. on your fourth sub-question: as i mentioned, the commission has integrated the scoreboard of key employment and social indicators in the draft joint employment report. this will serve better to inform the setting of policy priorities for the 2014 european semester, as well as the process of multilateral surveillance and the preparation of euro area and country-specific recommendations. this brings me to your fifth sub-question, on how we detect alarming levels. the commission’s assessment of the scoreboard’s headline indicators was considered for each member state: firstly, the change in the indicator compared to earlier periods (i.e. the historical trends); secondly, the difference against the eu and euro area averages, which provides a snapshot of existing employment and social disparities; and, thirdly, the change in the indicator between two consecutive years relative to the change at eu and euro area levels. this comparison indicates the dynamics of socio-economic convergence or divergence. in your sixth sub-question you ask to what extent the commission acknowledges that there is specificity in the eurozone countries in relation to social challenges. this is a complex question on which i can only refer you to the commission communication on strengthening the social dimension of emu. on your seventh sub-question regarding the link between the commission communication and the wider agenda on emu completion, i would remind you that the commission’s ‘blueprint for a deep and genuine emu’ distinguishes steps to be taken in the short, medium and longer term. in the medium term, it identifies the need for deeper coordination of euro area labour markets. in the longer term, the possibility of an autonomous euro area budget, providing the euro area with a fiscal capacity to help member states to absorb shocks, is being considered. one possible stabilisation tool identified in that context was an emu-level unemployment insurance scheme. measures of that nature would, however, require a treaty change as the eu currently does not have the competence to adopt them. in any event, the october 2013 european council welcomed the commission communication on the social dimension of emu as a positive step. finally, on your last sub-question, i can confirm that the commission is continuing to pursue its analysis on the longer-term possibilities and options for completing emu, as presented in its blueprint and its communication on the social dimension of emu. part of this technical work concerns the feasibility and the possible design of an automatic fiscal stabiliser operating at emu level.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr commissioner, i am delighted to have this brief exchange of views with you. we would have liked the council to be present too, because we wanted to put this problem before the council so that it could be present at the future european council. but i take this opportunity to say that we have indeed followed this report with great interest, this communication of 2 october - its gestation, its birth; we know that it has not been easy, that it has been painful, the resistance that has been there - and what we wanted precisely with this debate and with the resolution that we will vote on tomorrow is to help you, those who are really interested in the fact that the new architecture of economic and monetary union actually has an important social pillar. we feel that it is necessary, that it is urgent - not just that it is fair - because there will be no successful economic policy in europe if there are such tremendous asymmetries in the levels of welfare. there can be no rich europe and poor europe, no europe with jobs and no europe with unemployment. we believe - and the socialist group is firmly convinced of this - that just as we are attacking macroeconomic imbalances, we must also attack social imbalances in order to be able to realize not only our principles, our wishes and our objectives, but also even the most prosaic economic conclusions. so, commissioner, we must move on. there is still a long way to go, a lot of resistance, but here in parliament you will have your best ally: do not hesitate.
mr president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, i share your view that the error rate of 4.8% in the expenditure of the 2012 budget of the european union is high. the data show that the error rate has been increasing over the last three years, but the court of auditors' annual report also reveals that the areas where the highest percentage is recorded are those of shared management between the member states and the european commission, such as agriculture and cohesion. these figures show that both the control system and the supervision system need to be improved. while we share the need to improve these managing authorities everywhere, we also need to look at the figures in depth and not be simplistic: it would be wrong to take this error alone into account to talk about expenditure control in the european union as something that is not being done well. the citizens should know that 'error' does not necessarily mean 'fraud', and this is what the court of auditors itself says. on the other hand, we should not lose sight of the fact that we are at the end of a programming period, which means that in recent years, in particular in 2012, there has been an increased demand for expenditure - which must also be taken into account when analysing these data - and we should not overlook the change in sampling methodology, something that has also been recognised by the court of auditors itself. i would also like to stress the part that is done right, namely that 130 billion euros have been spent correctly - which means 95 per cent of the expenditure is free from error - and the taxpayer also needs to know this to be at ease. we must work together to correct those mistakes which may overshadow the good results achieved, which are many.
mr president, i also thank the court of auditors and mr silva caldeira in particular very much, not only for their tireless work in pointing out where there are areas of risk, where the control systems can be improved, which shows precisely that improvement is taking place, even though there are still errors in some of the aspects and areas where they have had the greatest impact - and we must also acknowledge this - in all the decisions relating to the crisis in the last three years. i also understand that the court of auditors is helping us with its opinions and recommendations in the new areas of risk, such as all those we are considering for the governance of the crisis. in relation to what all my colleagues have said, i will not insist. i agree with them on most things: the need to continue improving systems and the need, above all, for shared management and for the gradual introduction of new formulas and systems in the member states, such as net financial corrections, which, for example, in my country, i think can be very useful in the sense of the need to discipline decision-making areas more at an earlier stage and not later or in corrections. i would also like to respond to some of my colleagues with a more detailed analysis. because, for example, if we look at the error rate in the agricultural policy - the much-maligned agricultural policy - we find that the error rate is 3.8% - almost 1% more, it is true, but 3.8% - and that is the reason why the commission has not yet adopted the common position. in contrast, rural development - the priority of the european parliament - was 7.9%. and that is where we find the highest number (63%) of operations affected, being one of the sectors we are giving priority in this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore also important that we tell these stories to the citizens so that they really understand what is happening internally and that there are no generic headlines that scare everyone and that do not help anyone, neither to grow the european union nor to improve citizenship. i am not talking about the usual culprits, among whom i hope you will find your country, mr pieper, because as far as interruptions and suspensions are concerned, it turns out that your country has the most cases, at least more than a country like mine, which is certainly among the six culprits. but you do not take into account that the protection of the european budget is more at risk on 31 december 2012 in germany than in spain. let us say it all and perhaps the citizens, including the germans, will take some responsibility for all that is happening to us.
mr president, i would just like to add two elements: firstly, to ask mr šemeta to what extent - because i think that has not been measured; we are in the 2012 assessment, when we are almost at the end of the 2007-2012 period - has the economic and financial crisis, which has led to some adjustments of the commission's mechanisms and the funds, etc., affected or not. could you assess to what extent that has also affected him? and secondly, i also wanted to ask mr caldeira a question. we are also talking about pluriannualism, that is to say, one of the problems we are facing in making this picture visible and in offering it to the citizens - and especially before the new european elections. how much could the court of auditors help us to improve this view of pluriannualism? and i would also like you to be able to separate the european taxpayers, because here everyone says: 'ah, the european taxpayer!' but there are, in the matter of corrections, taxpayers who are nationals. it would also be important if we could separate the two groups. when a government is wrong and needs to make a correction, it is up to the citizens of that member state themselves. whereas, when it comes to mistakes in another area, then we all - let's say, in solidarity - pay for those who have made the mistake. that is why it would also be important, perhaps, for the court of auditors to consider how to adapt this visibility as well with regard to who ultimately pays for errors.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank all of you for this very good debate on the report of the court of auditors. we have to be very clear that the report by the court of auditors revealed that more than 95% of the eu budget is spent correctly. it is very important to take that into account. we also have to take into account that in 2012, the commission corrected 3.2% of the spending made in the member states. just add up to 95.2%, the figure which i just presented and you will see that really we have a relatively good system in dealing with eu spending. we should not forget that the court said very clearly that the accounts of the commission are clean and that they present a true picture of the accounting system in the european union. of course, we have weaknesses, and i acknowledged that very clearly in my introductory remarks. and of course we have to address these weaknesses in a proper way. but we also have to work and to act within the legal framework which we have and which was adopted by the co-legislators, namely the european parliament and the council. we cannot invent actions which are not foreseen in the existing legal framework. thanks to our joint action in the preparation of the legislative framework for the next programming period, we really are moving in the right direction and will be able to better address problems related to errors, particularly in the area of shared management. actually, all of you who spoke today said that we still face problems in shared management. we have to tackle those problems. first of all, a very important tool is the net financial correction, which was agreed during the negotiations. we are working with the rapporteur on how to introduce this new instrument in the most efficient way and to use it in a targeted way in order to address serious problems. we should also remember that we introduced in the financial regulation management declarations of the member states. member states will now have to present these declarations to the commission and to this parliament. we are working in close cooperation with jan mulder on the design of national declarations and i and am a strong supporter of this approach and believe that the working group which we established together with this parliament, and together with the council, will provide good ideas on how we can better use this instrument at national level too. we should also remember simplifications which we introduced in the new legal framework, and it is very important that member states use those simplifications in the correct way. the report of the court of auditors this year clearly revealed that in those cases where member states use already existing simplification instruments, the level of error is negligible or even non-existent, so i think that it is very important that we encourage member states to use these simplifications. mr gerbrandy raised the issue of performance, and i think that the new programming framework really addresses very thoroughly the performance management issues. the programmes in shared management are based on performance criteria, and of course the commission will pay due attention in order to ensure that member states establish smart performance indicators. we will monitor the implementation of those performance indicators. it is our common objective to ensure that eu spending is based on performance and not just on input. having said that, i want to stress once again that we are taking the report of the court of auditors very seriously. we have analysed very seriously their findings and are preparing the implementation action plans for the court’s recommendations. i believe that working together with this parliament, together with the court of auditors, we will ensure better spending of eu money.
court of auditors. − mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you firstly for the kind words you addressed to the court and those who work there. i note the requests you have addressed to us today calling for more insight at member state level, for a review of our approach to the annual report, possibly questioning our material threshold, and also for a more performance-oriented approach to what we do. i take good note of these requests and i can tell you that we are already taking them seriously. i want to make it very clear, however, that there has been no manipulation whatsoever of the nature of the findings in this report. the court is an independent professional audit institution and we stick to the highest standards of our profession in addressing and reporting on our findings. so i have to reject strongly the claim that our error rates are politically manipulated. the fact is that some of the errors the court finds are considered not quantifiable for purposes of determining the most likely error. the method used here is very technical, and i will not waste your time this morning explaining it, but it means that some of the errors taken into account in our estimation of the frequency of errors found in our sample are not extrapolated for the calculation of most likely errors. we are not sweeping these errors under the carpet. they are taken very seriously into account. the majority of them relate to procurement situations in which certain rules were not observed without making the tendering procedure as such ineligible – i.e. the tender has been assigned correctly but some rules were not observed, thus creating an erroneous situation. that said, i note strongly that everyone must assume their responsibilities, and the court will assume its responsibilities. we want very much to be part of the solution – we have been calling for several years for a clear approach to the management of the restes à liquider – the outstanding commitments. we know that there is a structural gap between commitments and appropriations; that gap increased over the period and we ended 2012 with a major gap in terms of the liabilities recorded in the accounts. the balance sheet of the union does indeed record a gap between commitments and appropriations which is very serious. that should not prevent all those responsible for adopting the budget, the commission with its management responsibilities, or the member states as contributors from their own resources to the budget, from exercising proper management of cashflow needs over the next programming period, in order to avoid precisely the pressure we have experienced during the past five years in relation to our payment budget. we addressed that question this week here in parliament. everyone has to assume their share of responsibility. the court cannot present its report earlier because we need the accounts to be available, and the final accounts of the union are ready only in july. only after that can we do our final work. discussions were held when we changed the financial regulation – which will enter into force in january 2014 – and we must respect the timetable agreed by all the eu institutions. let me emphasise in conclusion, mr president, that, as i said at the beginning, we need a new approach to the management of eu funds. we need everyone, at member state level and in the european institutions, to focus on a performance culture. there are lessons to be learned from the previous programming period and i believe that the work the court has done already on the first phase of closing the period 2007-2013 will be updated when the 2007-2013 programme is closed. we will then provide an overall picture of the results and the lessons we have to learn. but just this week you adopted the new high-level framework for 2014-2020. this week and next, you will decide as a parliament on the direction to be taken in future in relation to the eu’s financial management and use of funds. if we want to be more performance-oriented, more focused on results with clear objectives and simple rules, you now have the opportunity to state that. we are, of course, looking closely at the next stage of the implementing rules and implementing regulations, the so-called ‘delegated acts’, to ensure that the right path is being followed there. at the end of the day, ms ayala sender, it is the european taxpayers who are paying. all of us in the european union are engaged in providing resources to the eu budget. if we seek to change our approach with regard to getting results from the european budget, so that it can make a difference to citizens’ lives, this house probably has the greatest responsibility in that respect. you may count on us, on the court, to do our job according to international standards, in an independent way, providing the best results to support your work, and also to follow the recommendation that this should be done in a human way, respecting farmers or other beneficiaries wherever they are. (applause)
mr gerbrandy, your message will be relayed. the right body to deal with it is the conference of presidents. se cierra el debate. declaraciones por escrito (artículo 149 del reglamento)
the rapporteur. - mr president, just a minute to emphasize that the new framework programme we are about to vote on comes at a crucial moment for europe. this is a time when the european union must invest in research and innovation if it is to increase its competitiveness, grow and create quality jobs. i would also like to highlight the enormous work done by this parliament over the last two years and thank all my colleagues, the commission and the council for making possible an agreement of which we are all proud. while some of our member states are wrongly turning their backs on research and innovation, this parliament, thanks to fruitful teamwork, has achieved a horizon 2020 that is truly an opportunity for research and innovation in europe and, more importantly, an opportunity for our researchers.
mr president, as co-rapporteur with professor moreira of this motion for a resolution, i would like to table an oral amendment to amendment no 5 by the socialist group to remove the references to non-tariff barriers, as it is not appropriate, from our point of view, to include them here. the second sentence of the amendment would thus read as follows: 'welcomes the resumption of negotiations on the expansion of the information technology agreement, which increases both the range of products covered and the number of countries within its scope'.
in writing. − while national governments such as spain underestimate investment in r & d & i as a solution to the current crisis, the european parliament has opted for a horizon 2020 strategy that is adapted to europe's current needs in this area. in my region of cantabria, we are suffering an industrial decline which is forcing massive redundancies and dozens of industries to cut back or close their doors in the face of the passivity of the current regional government. innovative projects such as the cantabrian science and technology park or the promotion of research at the university were launched with the socialist government. in horizon 2020, although we do not agree with the cuts imposed by the council, the socialists have achieved through our rapporteur achievements such as strengthening the role of women in science and innovation or the greater participation of smes.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it introduces the competitiveness criteria and the participation of private enterprise in the successors to the european research framework programme no 7 (fp7). the report introduces the objectives of the horizon 2020 strategy in the definition of the objectives of the research programme. this implies that the relevance of research will be assessed in terms of its potential to generate benefits for the private sector, and that private participation in the co-financing of the actions of the programme will be enhanced. excellence, which can be understood as a form of discrimination based on the ideological position taken by research, is becoming a requirement, at the same time as funding is being cut in many european universities, preventing them from competing for it and relegating them to the background. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − this new framework will cover all the programmes that have existed in the field of research and innovation to date. it aims to simplify the rules for obtaining funding, improve research and increase the participation of both industry and smes, with a view to creating jobs and improving the economy. it is important to note that the aim is to encourage all types of innovation in smes with the aim of stimulating economic activity. this will include facilitating access to seed funding, granting grants, assisting with commercialization and investing in technologies to make smes market leaders and thus boost economic growth. this new measure is intended to create 3.7 million jobs throughout the eu and i therefore welcome the adoption of this budget.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it extends the criteria for competitiveness and private enterprise participation in the successors to fp7 and in the dissemination agreements under these framework programmes. the report contained an amendment which could mean the cancellation of collaboration agreements with israeli universities with facilities in the occupied palestinian territories, but the majority groups have prevented its vote. the report therefore allows the establishment of research agreements with entities that violate international law to continue with total impunity. this cannot be allowed to happen in the use of european union research funds and that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains positive points aimed at boosting research and technological development in europe, it includes the criterion of excellence as the only bridge to achieve the quality of research work. the report includes many positive measures which can give a boost to the development of research in the european union. however, by identifying 'excellence' as the sole vehicle for ranking universities, it can serve as a tool to divide european university systems into two categories, those marked by excellence on the one hand and those not. this would be an attack on cohesion by locating research in the most favoured areas of the continent. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − today, the european parliament adopted the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) programme for the period 2014-2020 with a budget of eur 2.030 million. i am particularly pleased with this result, as it will improve access to finance and the internalization of smes and facilitate more favourable conditions for entrepreneurs and the setting up of new businesses. in addition to the benefits in terms of innovation and growth that can be achieved, the immediate consequence will be job creation. it should be remembered that smes generate 67% of jobs in the european private sector, a percentage which is likely to increase thanks to the contribution of this initiative.
in writing. − i would to stress once again my concerns over the situation of credit to smes in europe. as the crisis deepens, credit to the real economy continues to fall and to be more and more expensive. not because of the financial situation of the smes, but because of their location inside the eurozone. this situation has to be tackled as the transmission mechanism of monetary policy is de facto broken. another distortion is created by the fact that some banks receiving state aid use this money to buy more sovereign debt when at the same time they reduce the credit to smes and households.
in writing. - i voted against this report because our group is totally different from most of the other groups in this parliament in describing what creates insecurity in the world and what force must be used to bring about security. we don't share the majority line at all. nato, its bases, its extrajudicial executions and western imperialism are the cause of world insecurity, not the solution. the occupation of a member state, cyprus, by a turkish military force is also creating insecurity in europe, and there is no response to that. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because our group is totally opposed to the development of armaments as a means of increasing the security of the european union. europe is one of the world's leading arms exporters and a boost to its arms industry does not mean an improvement in european security, but rather a further increase in instability in the regions to which its industries export. the report proposes harmonization and cooperation of the criteria governing the arms industry in the various member states. however, the arms industry should not be treated as a normal sector because of the consequences of these industries. i am opposed to the development of this industry, and i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the amendments calling for a balance between social and macroeconomic indicators in the evaluation of national policies because it is more and better defined than in the motion for a resolution; on the other hand, the social dimension must be very much present in the framework of the newly adopted clause on the conditions imposed for macroeconomic reasons in cohesion policy.
member of the commission. − mr president, with today’s two reports by ms rodust and mr stevenson we are this week finalising a very intensive process to reform the common fisheries policy. if these reports are adopted, i think that parliament will have enabled the ambitious reform that the commission was seeking with this proposal. this is a very important step forward because we have done this together with the council. parliament has clearly shown that codecision works as effectively in fisheries as it does in other areas, something that has at times been questioned. now we have proved that parliament can cooperate productively with the council to produce good results in fisheries policy. i would like to thank ms rodust, the rapporteur. she has done an excellent job, as have all members of the committee on fisheries. i would also like to thank mr stevenson for his contribution. let me underline that the only missing element of the new fisheries policy puzzle is now the european maritime and fisheries fund. so i urge parliament and the lithuanian presidency – i am sorry that they are not here – to do everything possible to complete the work by the end of the year. this is important because, if we complete the work on our fisheries fund by the end of the year, we will then have the budget to carry out essential work. if we do not have a budget, we cannot send our inspectors out to conduct fisheries controls, we cannot receive scientific advice and we cannot support valuable projects in the regional fisheries management organisations, to name just a few of the consequences. i would like to urge parliament and the lithuanian presidency to work on this. the commission is ready to facilitate and will put forward creative solutions, but we need to make a decision about the funding before the end of the year. on the basic regulation, i am happy with the result because, as ms rodust has already mentioned, it fully supports the commission’s approach and we are now in a position to fulfil all the sustainability principles. we are going to bring our stocks to maximum sustainable yield level – or even above this level – and next week we will be discussing next year’s fishing opportunities in the council and we will fight for good decisions. furthermore, we will have a gradual landing obligation starting from 1 january 2015, which we are preparing. we will also have regionalisation with more responsibilities for the regions and better legal standards for our external policy. i think that this was a good outcome after all. turning now to the common market organisation regulation, this will, of course, make a substantial contribution to the overall objective of ensuring sustainable fishing and aquaculture activities. as you know, the commission would have preferred more ambitious labelling rules in the interests of consumers. therefore, the commission was not in a position to support the final compromise between parliament and council on this point. here, as well, our priority must be implementation. the commission is doing all it can to have the related implementing regulations in place from 1 january 2014. this will help the member states and the professional organisations to implement the new rules properly. over a year ago, on the occasion of the vote in first reading, i appealed strongly to you to make use of the historic opportunity to reform the european fisheries policy. you have grasped this opportunity and now, with the final work to formalise the agreement, we are turning this into a historic moment indeed.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, for the group of the european people's party, the negotiating process after the first reading has made it possible to incorporate into the future cfp aspects which were essential to us and which, while not taking away from its ambition, add to it the realism and flexibility which were absent both from the commission's initial proposal and from the rapporteur's report. since the council's position was closer to the approaches of our group, the result of the tripartite dialogues is much more satisfactory to us, particularly on key issues such as exploitation models, discards, the content of multiannual plans, fleet capacity management and attention to the situation of mixed fisheries, which are overlooked despite the fact that they constitute the majority of the union's fisheries. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the management of the stocks of certain species of fish in the baltic sea. in another of the most complex issues, the prohibition of discards, a more realistic timetable has been achieved, as the epp proposed, taking into account mixed fisheries. solutions and transitional periods are also being considered for cases where increasing selectivity is extremely difficult or landing costs are disproportionate, and an outlet has been sought for fleets which do not have quotas for certain species or which are too low to be able to combine discard policy with maintaining activity.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, this is the first time since the first basic regulation was adopted three decades ago that parliament has acted as a co-legislator. i appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur, mrs rodust, to ensure the sustainability of fisheries in all its dimensions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, including the implementation of the new rules on the management of stocks and the implementation of the new rules on the management of stocks. the reference to protection tasks, fisheries protection areas and coastal fishing will be welcomed in galicia. so despite the maintenance of the principle of relative stability, the restrictions on the internal market and the fact that more consumer information in the wto would be desirable, i believe that the reform is a step forward that deserves support and the key now will be its implementation.
mr president, we have reached the end of the process of reforming the common fisheries policy as far as its basic regulation and also the market regulation are concerned. we will adopt the new cfp by vote tomorrow. it has been a long, and at times complicated, period, covering this entire legislature, and which began in 2009 with the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy. the great push given by the irish presidency, together with good interinstitutional cooperation, have been fundamental to getting us where we are today. and i think the political objective has been achieved. we shall have a fisheries policy which ensures ecological, social and economic sustainability, based on the best available scientific data, and in which discards will no longer be permitted. the member states may also, through regionalisation, propose conservation measures and agree on them with other coastal member states. this is the end of the process and marks the beginning of a new way of fishing and managing. the member states have a lot of work ahead of them if they want to be part of a genuine regionalisation.
i hope, mr president, that this reform of the common fisheries policy will make this activity more sustainable and improve the objectivity and transparency of the decisions taken. this will be helped by regionalisation, the obligation to share consistent scientific data on the status of species at sea on a systematic basis and the true capacity of fleets. in addition, the involvement of regional fisheries councils is being improved. the policy on discards is more realistic than in the original proposal and it has also improved the approach to the external dimension and to agreements with third countries, in whose negotiations i believe more involvement of the sector is needed. finally, i think it is of great interest that fisheries funds should have a more positive impact on development and employment in coastal areas and in the sector, and that sustainability should be given priority. this will benefit small-scale and artisanal fisheries, which still need a definition more suited to diversity than characterization and a regulation on labelling that speaks of the origin of fish and values their activity.
on behalf of the ppe group i came here with a prepared speech, but on arriving in this house i have just learned that a commitment which has taken many months to work on and make a serious commitment is now boycotted by the rapporteur and the socialist group, on the basis of some justification from the council. it seems very frivolous. and i also find it very unfair to the work that we have been doing here seriously many members. that said, commissioner, you know very well that your proposal is a proposal whose starting point is absolutely radical, unjustified and discriminatory. and i hope that this parliament can block it and, if not, that the council, to the best of its knowledge, will block it in the future. the ban you propose on certain fishing gear, such as bottom trawling and gillnets, is not supported by anyone, except, with great interest, by environmental ngos and, as i see here, also by some members. you have just given the example of the azores. that is an approach that has nothing to do with your proposal. that's an approach that some of us advocate: the vulnerable marine ecosystem approach, where you also protect the ecosystem and where you can't fish. but that is one thing and the radical ban, which you are proposing, is another. and i repeat, neither in the neaf, nor in nafo, nor in the united nations, no one, no one is proposing such a ban. i therefore consider your proposal to be very radical and i hope - as i said - that it will be blocked here, because it is also discriminatory. because in those same waters where you want to prohibit our fishermen, iceland, the faroe islands, etc., will be fishing tomorrow, and they will also be exporting to the european union what you are prohibiting us from fishing.
mr president, for some people, in politics everything seems to be worth it. and commitments are worthless. what a pity! unfortunately, there are those in this house who want to be the sole guardians of fisheries resources, ignoring the fact that the real guardians of fisheries resources are the fishermen themselves. the same fishermen who are being pushed into an irreversible situation by the commission's proposal. if, as he claims, the deep-sea trawling and bottom trawling are banned, the consequences will be economically and socially catastrophic for many fishing-dependent communities who cannot afford it. four examples: the united kingdom estimates that about 400 british vessels would be affected by the proposal; in france, taking into account only four ports, about 500 direct jobs related to the 32 vessels licensed to fish for bottom species would be lost; portugal would also be significantly affected by a ban such as the proposal; and, if we refer to spain, it is clear that it would make it impossible to operate the nafo, neafc and norwegian trawling censuses in international waters and the union's trawling censuses for the 300-ton fleet, as well as the flying and scallop censuses in the north-western cantabrian. but what is more serious is that this proposal for a ban on trawling has been tabled against the opinion of the member states, the ccrs, the scientific committees of nafo and neafc. trawling has not been banned in any country in the world, not even in new zealand, which is a model for the world of sustainable fishing and which is very close to the barrier reef. nor has it been banned by any regional fisheries organization or by the united nations general assembly itself. think about it. it's compatible to protect and fish. protect and fish. let's do it like this.
mr president, i want to say that the european union is indeed committed to ensuring that by 2020 its marine ecosystems are in good condition and will remain so in the future. the marine strategy framework directive establishes this obligation for member states. we all know that deep waters are especially sensitive because they have habitats with biodiversity that has been formed over long periods of time and because there are vulnerable species that, in the event of loss, recover over very long periods of time. that is why, after ten years in which the measures adopted have not worked, we have welcomed the commission's position, which included drastic measures. we think it is not necessary to use the saw in this case. we have to make a surgery, and that is why we have reached a compromise in the committee, defining the deep-sea fisheries policy, establishing a list of vulnerable species, establishing conditions and limits for authorizations, establishing a list of sensitive ecosystem areas and establishing an assessment. we think it would be good if parliament had broad support to get the council to agree and to avoid measures which would divide our position.
mr president, the preparation of this report has been a difficult process and i will make the most of the compromise reached, because i believe that this is the way forward. the basque country has four vessels that fish below 600 metres, but this does not mean that it is a fishery targeting deep-sea species. they don't fish for sharks, just for turbot. they do it during the day and only for two or three months a year, with a more artisanal character than the rest and hardly have discards, as stated in a report by the azti institute made at the request of the sector itself. they should therefore be exempted from the application of this regulation and used, madam commissioner, as an example of good practice to be applied at european level. the amendments tabled at the last minute may destroy a sector which is and should be an example. it is clear that the sector itself is most interested in maintaining sustainability, and this we must do in collaboration with scientific institutes and with objective data to make our sector a profitable and sustainable sector.
madam president, let's focus the debate. scientists are warning us - and this is something we have all known about these days - that vulnerable deep-sea species and habitats are the subject of some of the most destructive fishing practices by some of the european union fleets. and not only that, but we are doing it with european union funds. deep-sea bottom trawling causes considerable environmental damage and does not offer any positive economic returns. this is the kind of activity, which is also subsidised, and it is precisely this type of activity that we want to put an end to with the amendment which we have tabled for tomorrow's sitting. i believe that we have a great opportunity, as we have done in the past, in passing the reform of the fisheries policy. we did that in due course when we passed a much stricter regulation to protect sharks. we have also done so on a number of occasions in a very clear way, when we have sent a message in favour of a much more responsible management policy, not to feed the overfishing. and tomorrow we have a new opportunity to show that this parliament is on the side of: (1) common sense, and therefore scientific analysis; and (2) future generations and their right to continue to enjoy that sea, those oceans, which, let us not forget, are a common good.
the rapporteur, mrs lulling, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. the council's mandate to the commission to open negotiations included similar demands to those of this parliament. the basic aim was to improve the economic efficiency of the protocol so that the price paid for access to resources would have an adequate return for the european union, favouring the full use of the fishing opportunities obtained. in addition, criteria were included concerning commitment to sustainable development, negotiating only on fisheries surpluses; the incorporation of a human rights clause and the inclusion of guarantees that the protocol complies with international law and, in particular, with the commitments entered into by morocco within the united nations. the commission has negotiated a protocol which, in the opinion of the committee on fisheries, meets all these requirements and which has also been approved by the committee on budgets and the committee on development. it also has the support of the eu and moroccan fisheries sectors and of european trade unions. i would now like to highlight some of the progress that best demonstrates the consistency of the european parliament's requests: fishing opportunities have been negotiated for 126 vessels flying the flag of 11 member states, which will employ 1 500 crew, of which approximately 500 will be local; the financial contribution has been adjusted to the actual fishing opportunities, which are increased by 33%, while the cost to the union budget is reduced by 17%; the aspects that prevented the full use of fishing opportunities have been corrected, by adapting technical measures, modifying the fishing areas according to the different fleets and modifying some fishing areas, as in the case of categories 1 and 2, for example, to include better equipped social ports, such as the mohamedia, which in addition to increasing the safety of the fleet, will allow landing obligations to be met; the financial contribution has been adjusted to the actual fishing opportunities, which are increased by 33%, while the cost to the union budget is reduced by 17%; the scientific data provided by the european parliament, in addition to the geographical data, have been improved, while the financial impact of the projects has been reduced, by the european parliament, and, in addition to the duration of the protocol, has been improved; the financial implications of the proposed amendments to the european parliament's geographical data, by including, have been improved, and, in the first instance, by the use of the european parliament's financial protocol, by the european commission, and, have been improved; and, in addition to the first time, by the european parliament's, by the adoption of the geographic and financial, by the european parliament, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, and, by, by, by, by, by, by moreover, with regard to the questions of legality raised, i would like to stress again that both the legal services of the commission and those of parliament have re-established that the protocol is legal, in accordance with international law, and specifically the doctrine of the united nations, according to which the exploitation of resources is perfectly legal, provided that it benefits the population. it is therefore during the implementation of the protocol that this point can be verified, which, as i have said, could lead to the suspension of the protocol if not complied with. i therefore believe that we are faced with the protocol which best responds to the concerns expressed in this house, with new control mechanisms, both financial and sustainability, and so as rapporteur i can only ask for support for its approval, negotiated on the new bases that we ourselves had called for.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the negotiated protocol fulfils the council's mandate, fully complies with the european parliament's 2011 resolution and satisfies the european fisheries sector by allowing sustainable, long-term and profitable fishing that is beneficial to both parties. the protocol grants 126 fishing licences to be distributed among 11 countries of the european union, of which 100 would be for spain. from the labour point of view, this protocol would provide jobs for 1,500 crew members - 500 of whom are moroccans - and 3,000 workers in related activities. and, speaking of spain, it would support more than 800 families, mainly andalusians and canarians. as far as the cost-benefit ratio is concerned, it is much better adjusted. it is a much better deal for fishermen and cheaper for the union. and for those who have doubts outside of the strictly fisheries aspect, i want to say that this agreement, which is also fully in line with international law - as the legal services say - is also fully in line with the mandates. it contains the obligation to respect human rights and democratic principles and also allows the european union to suspend its application in the event of a breach of any of these rights or principles. so much policy can be made at the expense of this protocol, which was not done with the agricultural protocol, for example. but of course, what cannot be questioned is some of the questions that are being questioned. there is not a single legal argument, or one of fisheries interests, that can be called into question. it's good protocol and deserves our approval. and mrs fraga deserves our thanks for her excellent report.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, in line with mr torvalds, i too have recommended that our group vote against, in line with what we have been advocating for the last few years. when, in 2011, we already considered voting against the old version, we did so because the resources were in a very bad state and because, economically, it was not viable. but also because it was illegal. and this situation is still exactly the same today. i am sorry to disagree with the commissioner and some members, but it cannot be argued that this situation is legal. morocco is negotiating with resources that don't belong to it. and in that sense, it is not just the benefits that must be taken into account, but the wishes of the saharawi people, who have not been consulted during the whole negotiation and who have explicitly said that they are against this agreement. so from the point of view of international law, it is an illegal agreement. and for this reason - not only because it is immoral from the point of view of respect for human rights, but also because it is illegal - our group will vote against this agreement tomorrow.
madam president, the new protocol is consistent with the agricultural and trade agreement approved in february last year and is part of an advanced partnership between the european union and morocco. it also addresses parliament's concerns about cost-effectiveness, sustainability and legality. it is cost-effective because it reduces the contribution of the union's taxpayers and increases the fishing opportunities under the agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. all the legal reports say that the protocol is consistent with international law and that it fulfils the european union's commitments with regard to the sahara, does not predetermine sovereignty and establishes mechanisms of transparency and control so that the saharawi population benefits. experience has shown that the rejection of the previous protocol did not help to resolve the conflict, whereas this new protocol can create avenues of cooperation that will allow us to achieve what we want: a just and lasting solution within the framework of the united nations.
madam president, i appreciate the efforts made by the rapporteur to respond to the resolution of this parliament and the council, but part of the waters of western sahara, which is incorporated into the agreement, are not owned by morocco. international law is clear on this and we have also missed all the deadlines to close the process of self-determination in the sahara and to comply with international resolutions. my party, the basque nationalist party, and the canary islands coalition are running together in the european parliament elections and have defended and will continue to defend the cause of the saharawi people, their right to self-determination. but this cause is linked to the cry of the canary and andalusian fishing fleets, who are demanding a way out of their dramatic situation through the agreement we are discussing. for the reasons i have given, i shall abstain from voting tomorrow.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, it is obvious that there has been a heated debate and it is obvious that a lot of you have a lot of concerns not about the agreement itself but about the human rights of the sahrawi people and the people of the western sahara in general. let me be absolutely blunt about this. this is an agreement which is better than the previous one. i would like to remind you that parliament did not just reject the previous protocol. parliament approached the commission and asked us to negotiate a new protocol. i think that the new protocol covers the concerns of parliament. of course it does not answer the concerns of some members of parliament about the self-determination of the western sahara. a lot of you have asked me to resolve a political problem. let me be completely clear here. our legal service – the commission’s legal service, parliament’s legal service, the un legal service – nobody says that a protocol with morocco is illegal a priori. nobody. so i do not understand why you are referring to all of this with such certainty. i am not a lawyer. i imagine that most of you are not legal specialists either, so we have to see what our legal services say. this is what is said there and i would like to urge you to remember that if this is the path that we are taking, no agreement with morocco should therefore be supported by parliament. if you want to solve political problems through a possible agreement, what you are saying is that we should stop the agreements; stop any agreement with morocco. all the agreements with morocco from now on will be somehow related to this issue. so what are we going to do? perhaps you think that it is better to vote against any agreement. i do not agree with this approach and i have to be completely honest with you. of course we have to have concerns about human rights but in the meantime we have to consider these concerns in a way which allows us to be very productive and bring about specific results. in my opinion, this is the best agreement we can have on fisheries – i emphasise fisheries – and i think that all the other concerns can be addressed on other occasions and in other forums.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i repeat what mrs damanaki has said, what mr milana has said and what many have said. firstly, there were some requests and requests made by this parliament which coincided - as i say - with the council's mandate. and this is what the commission has negotiated. from the technical and fishing point of view the agreement is flawless, and this time the agreement obviously has the appearance of being used 100% and with maximum profitability. secondly, the issue of human rights. yes, indeed - as some have said here - the hypocrisy of human rights. i think it is very good that we are being very demanding here, but we have already spoken about mauritania and other agreements in which no one is concerned with human rights. i just want to say one thing. the corell doctrine, which is the doctrine of the united nations - because the subject of the united nations has also been raised here - and which is practically covered by the legal services of both the commission and the european parliament, clearly states, in a similar case, that it is the exploitation of oil resources in the waters of western sahara, that morocco, as de facto administrator, can administer this non-self-governing territory and its resources as long as it benefits the population. and for the first time in a fisheries protocol, the european commission has negotiated the mechanisms and instruments that will make it possible to control that this profit is produced in that territory. and this is the first time - i insist - that this has been done. that's all you can do with a protocol. and we, as parliament, have also asked to be able to sit on those joint committees where all these projects have to be approved together to say yes or no. a priori, this protocol is absolutely legal. and with its implementation we can see whether it is beneficial or not. the mechanisms exist and the control can exist. and there is also a clause to suspend the agreement and the financial compensation if this is not met. i therefore wish to refute everything that has been said here on this subject. i would like to say again that this protocol, from the technical-fisheries point of view and from the human rights point of view, is flawless. so, i insist, i ask for your support again.
mr president, the integration of roma citizens into the member states of the union requires not only the will but also continued policies and investment to combat exclusion. in my country we have been implementing active integration policies for many years. spain is the eu country which has so far allocated the most community funds to programmes aimed exclusively at the integration of roma: 47 million euros are allocated from the european social fund in the current period. curbing early school leaving and absenteeism and facilitating access to employment are the priorities of the challenges for the coming years. inclusive social policies, such as social housing or unemployment protection, have had a positive impact on integration. we have good programs and good results. let us learn from them, let us strengthen the european social fund as the best instrument for strengthening integration.
mr president, commissioner, tomorrow is the international day of human rights. the defence of human rights is one of the foundations of the european union. the right of citizens to use their own language and not to be discriminated against for that reason is a constituent part of those rights, and is recognised as such both in the international bill of human rights and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. however, these linguistic rights are not guaranteed in all the member states. the day after tomorrow marks three months since this parliament adopted the report on endangered european languages and linguistic diversity in the european union. we call on the commission and the other institutions of the union to take up the recommendations of this report and to develop and promote bold policies to guarantee the linguistic rights of the citizens of the union. in particular, we ask the commission to recommend that the member states which have not ratified the european charter of languages do so. the ratification of the charter is a minimum to guarantee the real defence of the linguistic rights of the citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i am using my voice to give voice to the thousands of spanish citizens who are being silenced by the draft law on civil security of the rajoy government. it is certainly an authoritarian drift: the majority at the ballot box does not empower them to impose a law as they please. this proposal, rejected by citizens, judges, police associations and civil guard, is a scathing law that tries to silence the expression and will of the citizenship with high fines. nothing they said they were going to do has been done. and what they didn't say they did. the use of fear is a dangerous tactic that takes us back to a dark time in my country's history. the council of europe has sounded the alarm; spanish society has also sounded the alarm. and commissioner malmström, against the use of knives in the fence of melilla. never before has the young democracy been subjected to such severe and profound attacks as they are today.
mr president, commissioner, it is curious that, with the sad experience they have accumulated, some socialist should now be questioning the laws of the present spanish government. but i'm not going to talk about it. i was going to say that at the last plenary session we approved the horizon 2020 programme, which provides for eur 72 billion for the period 2014-2020. never before has the european union devoted so many resources to research, development and innovation, key factors for the development of our industries, the achievement of the digital agenda, energy policy, the reduction of emissions and a more efficient use of resources. in the meantime, the government in the canary islands is trying to dismantle the canary islands institute of technology, an international reference centre in many fields, with more than twenty years of experience, which has made a significant contribution to innovation policies, with outstanding activity and which has excellent workers of proven quality, who have been able to attract and manage european funds, mainly from the european strategy for intelligent specialisation, and whose jobs are unfortunately at risk today.
mr president, i take this opportunity to urge parliament and the world to help preserve the lives of bernard ntaganda in rwanda and other political prisoners who are subjected to multiple abuses by the government of paul kagame. bernard ntaganda and his colleagues founded the political party ps imberakuri on 18 january 2009. from that day to this day, bernard ntaganda has been imprisoned, convicted of disturbing national peace, because he headed the first opposition party registered in rwanda, and, in prison, he has suffered all kinds of abuses, to the point that he had to go on a hunger strike and was denied medical assistance, and all for defending democracy in capital letters. i therefore ask that this call be made at international level.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, cars 2020 is a european action plan for a strong, competitive and sustainable motor industry. today we are seeing a slow recovery, between one and two per cent, but we are seeing a significant drop, loss of jobs and a lack of funding for businesses, and with differences between states because of the state aid that each receives, with the southern states suffering the most. the european car must look beyond the crisis if it is to survive. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we must recalculate the situation as it stands and adapt to the new demands: more utilitarian models, a commitment to green vehicles and the valorisation of recycling. and above all, there is a pattern that the car company has been able to establish to survive, which is social dialogue. we must establish social dialogue as a maintenance lever.
mr president, this is a joint debate on the justice and rights and citizenship programmes and i think the first thing to do is to acknowledge the work of the rapporteurs, particularly luigi berlinguer and kinga göncz, to whom i have been able to contribute as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs over the last few months. the commissioner has described the funds allocated to these programmes as modest, and indeed they are, but more necessary than ever until the last euro because i do believe that the space of freedom, justice and security must be filled with content, more than ever in these times of deep crisis, which is much more than a financial and economic crisis: it is a crisis of values and, of course, of confidence in the european project. and that is why it is necessary to strengthen judicial cooperation between the member states; yes, mutual trust and mutual recognition are necessary and for this it is necessary to stimulate a shared legal culture and adequate training of all legal professions, not only judges and prosecutors, but also legal practitioners, legal practitioners, lawyers... there is a need to increase effective access to justice, to strengthen victims' rights and democratic scrutiny of funds, to increase efficiency in the awareness and management of programmes, facilitating their digital access for all citizens and, of course, of course, there is a need to strengthen the rights and citizenship programme. we have already said in connection with the fight against discrimination against people with disabilities, against racism, against xenophobia, incorporating the variable of gender identity and also incorporating into the justice programme the need to implement to the last euro and to stimulate the monitoring of funds for human rights in the european union. and finally, i am very sorry that the debate on the delegated and implementing acts has been... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, a european area of justice requires major efforts on the part of the institutions of the union and the member states. the high degree of legal fragmentation, the difficulty of recognising the different measures adopted and the situation of european economies are some of the factors which make this difficult. i congratulate the rapporteurs on this report, which will set the general outline of what justice in the union will mean in the period 2014-2020. i agree with the need to focus on projects which add european value to our judicial systems, which serve to foster mutual trust and cooperation in civil, criminal or procedural matters and which, in turn, improve their operationality and functionality. and all this without forgetting the respect for the principles of equality and non-discrimination, neither employment, nor sex, nor race, nor social, nor... nor... nor... nor... nor effective judicial protection, nor for victims and their best right. initiatives such as the european public prosecutor's office, the adaptation of eurojust and europol to the lisbon treaty, the development of the european justice portal and the financing of the activities of the european judicial training network, mr president, are among others the right direction to take in order to set the right course and to achieve the development of this european area and the achievement of a judicial and legal culture as common as possible.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes) you have the floor.
is there any objection to mrs hassi's request?
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i, on behalf of my group, ask that the draft legislative resolution be put to the vote. the majority of the political groups in this parliament have signed a commitment which has - as we have seen - the support of the majority of the house and i therefore do not think that the final vote should be delayed. yesterday the rapporteur boycotted the compromise, but today he lost. i therefore ask that the compromise be voted on, since the rapporteur has opposed a compromise which had the majority of votes in the committee on fisheries. i therefore ask that the draft legislative resolution be put to the vote now.
in any case, mrs fraga, according to the rules of procedure, mr arsenis' proposal must be put to the vote. we shall now vote. (parliament rejected the proposal for referral back to committee)
we shall now vote on mr murphy's proposal. (parliament adopted the proposal for a directive)
we adjourn the voting to allow the formal sitting to commence. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
president of mali. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, chairmen of parliamentary committees, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the ambassadors, distinguished guests, on 5 december 2013, nelson rolihlahla mandela, a giant of africa, a universal man, a great soul, a leader who loved peace and justice for all human beings, i could go on and on, passed away to enter eternal life. i would ask you to observe a minute's silence in honour of the father of the new south africa, the rainbow nation, whose advent was the central object of his struggle. ladies and gentlemen, thank you. may the lord almighty receive him into his kingdom and grant him his grace and mercy. ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and a symbol for me to address you, during this ceremony, this solemn plenary session, on tuesday 10 december 2013, the day of celebration of the universal declaration of human rights, to share with you some reflections on my vision for the future of my country and on cooperation between my country and europe. ladies and gentlemen,i would like to begin by thanking you for all the initiatives you have taken to help mali recover. this constant commitment is the most striking testimony to the spirit of solidarity which animates the european institutions and which is the hallmark of europe as a leading global actor with universal values shared with all the nations of our planet. it is no coincidence that the european union was awarded the nobel peace prize just a year ago. it is, in a sense, an acknowledgment of his commitment to world peace, without which there is no future for mankind. ladies and gentlemen, visiting your very prestigious institution, i have the duty to thank europe and the peoples you represent. ladies and gentlemen, europe is a unique historical partner which has stood by mali for over 40 years. we were together when the eama, the 18 african states and madagascar were associated, and later when the georgetown agreement was signed in 1975, we were still together. throughout these two stages, a curious coincidence of history, these are malians who have had to lead both institutions. for eama, the eighteen african and malagasy associated states, mr seydou djim sylla, to whom we pay tribute, was the secretary-general. the acps were started by mr tiéoulé konaté, who has sadly died. this partnership must be strengthened in all areas in order to bind our two continents irreversibly to each other. the many achievements of the european development fund and then of the european economic community are a testimony to the depth and intensity of cooperation between my country and europe. with the european union, we have an exceptional multi-dimensional cooperation which is expressed in the implementation of infrastructure programmes, training, institutional and budgetary assistance, and interventions in all areas of development: education, health, security, environment, governance, democracy and human rights. since that year there has been strong and very useful cooperation in the field of training our soldiers in the framework of the european union training mission. this cooperation has already been materialized by the formation of three battalions of the malian armed forces, which are now operational on the ground. a fourth battalion is in formation and that is very happy. these soldiers are the pioneers of the new malian republican army, which respects human rights, is animated by a superior patriotic spirit and is totally dedicated to the defence of mali's territorial integrity and sovereignty. i must express the gratitude of the entire malian people for all the efforts made by the european union to enable mali to return to the democratic process. all malians have been able to appreciate the role played by the european union observer mission, led by a friend of africa and mali, i would like to name louis michel, during the presidential elections in july and august 2013, and his unwavering commitment, also on your behalf, to our side for the parliamentary elections of 24 november and soon of 15 december 2013, as regards the second round. ladies and gentlemen, over the past decade, mali has been the scene of structural degradation in all areas of human activity. this overall social deterioration has resulted in the creation of sanctuaries in the north of the country where jihadist, terrorist and criminal groups have been able to carry out their illegal activities without major fear. mali has become the epicentre of the deteriorating security situation in the sahel, which has itself become an ocean of insecurity, stretching from the atlantic to the red sea, where cross-border crime has flourished in the soil of poverty and obscurantism. the economic misery has led to despair among the young people of the region. they have become easy prey for terrorists and jihadists, who have succeeded in drawing them into destructive adventures in which human life is no longer valued, in which the individual becomes the main enemy of his own family, his homeland and his society. the sahel has become an open arms market, where all non-state actors can obtain their supplies freely and easily. underdevelopment and poverty are thus the breeding ground for insecurity. cross-border crime threatens the peace and security of states in the region. without peace and security, there can be no development. and vice versa, without development there can be no peace and security. the sahel is now at the heart of global concerns. it is good that the european union has taken full account of the fundamental challenges facing this area and has adopted several initiatives, including the sahel strategy in which mali is central. developed by the european external action service and adopted by the foreign affairs council on 21 march 2011, this major eu initiative aims to help mali, mauritania and niger, all three in the heart of the sahel. i welcome the european union's strong commitment to promoting qualitative change in the priority areas of peace and security in the sahel and in africa. it is clear that the cross-border nature of security challenges requires our states to cooperate closely, through regional mechanisms, to address the common problems of our fragile countries. similarly, our countries must redouble their efforts to mobilise the international community to fight effectively against terrorism and organised crime. i have to say this loud and clear. to meet the security challenges facing the sahel states, we urgently need to rebuild our armed and security forces and equip them with substantial resources. the recent experience of my country is proof enough that a weak army and a decrepit and corrupt security force cannot successfully confront the hydra of terrorism and organised crime. ladies and gentlemen,the european union came to our rescue in may 2012, when it mobilised more than 3.2 billion euro at the brussels conference for mali's recovery to finance the reconstruction and development programme in mali. the conference was a decisive step in the resumption of cooperation with mali's other partners, who had suspended their budgetary support and financing of several major development projects due to the coup. mali appreciates the resumption of cooperation and welcomes the decision of the european union to increase budget support from 25% to 50%, which is so important for us. ladies and gentlemen, mali is counting on you to facilitate the disbursement procedures and the resumption of development projects. we are in an absolute emergency and the situation is sometimes aggravated by difficult disbursements. i think that europe's intention is to give concrete and rapid help to mali's recovery. so we're counting on you. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: this transparency and efficiency is a fundamental demand of our people, who will no longer accept the practices that led to the collapse of march 2012. we want to build a state of law, where no one can ever be above the law. some people thought they could test our will in this respect, and i believe they are now pondering their courage behind four walls. this is how it will be in mali from now on and we have also declared zero tolerance for corruption. if the malian people have chosen our modest person with such intense fervour, it is not because we are the best politician in mali, but because we are recognized for the integrity and honesty that have seen us throughout the various mandates that we have assumed as white as snow. this was the main motivation for malians to trust us. that confidence, my friends, will not be misplaced, i promise you. ladies and gentlemen, the same will be true of your confidence. the three billion two hundred million euros will not be misappropriated, dear friends, there will be a reporting, to the penny. it's about our honor, our dignity and the trust between you and us, which we hold above all else. mali is on the verge of a new historic adventure. we must establish a new state, a new social contract, which will restore the distant links between malians and the state. but above all, we must reconcile the malians with themselves, with their history, with the cardinal values that once allowed our people to give a singular stamp to sudanese humanism. president schulz, who was showing me a map of the world, said to me: 'ah, there is a beginning of africa on this map, which is 1575.' i said, "but the map goes on". if this is the map drawn by the majorcan geographer abraham cresques in 1575, mali is indeed on it, and the malian ruler is shown in legend, with the inscription: "here reigns moussa, king of mali, a country said to be so rich that gold would flow in waves". and it is these gold-mining areas mentioned by cresques that are still today the threads that make mali the third gold power in africa. the third gold producer in africa was already noted by this majorcan geographer on the catalan atlas in 1575. so it's an old story between you and us, which we cherish. since we've been in business, our approach has been about national reconciliation. we have here in this house the head of a new department which we have created for this purpose, the ministry of national reconciliation and development of the northern regions. this ministry is not a gadget, it is a clear political will thus affirmed. and this minister is probably one of the biggest job-killing people we've had in the last two months. we've been here two months. we must respond to the basic aspirations of our people who are thirsting for justice. that is why, in the governmental architecture, the ministry of justice is the first of the ministries. our people are thirsting for justice and demand a new democratic governance based on accountability and integrity of those in charge of the state. the new mali will be built thanks to the combination of the intelligence of all malians, because every malian is a force for mali, whether from the north, south, east or west, for us, it is a chance and a force. in this sense, within a few weeks, my government organized what we called the general states of decentralization, from 21 to 23 october, the national assemblies on the north, from 1 to 3 november, and the gao local and regional forum, from 26 november to 1 december 2013. the following basic elements were agreed at the states general on decentralisation: the introduction of regionalisation, which will strengthen the powers of the decentralised communities while making the region the nodal point of substantial economic development, taking into account the basic aspirations of the people at the grassroots level. secondly, the inclusion of traditional authorities in the decision-making process, both at regional and local level and at national level, through their participation in deliberative assemblies. thirdly, the local cultural specificities and the special conditions arising from the physical and geographical environment of the sahel-saharan regions must be taken into account. the national assemblies on the north, which brought together all the social and cultural components of our people, endorsed the relevant recommendations of the states general on decentralization. but, above all, they have helped to forge a robust national consensus, both on the institutional reforms envisaged by the government, to lead to better democratic governance, and on the content of the accelerated development plan for the northern regions, which will correct the serious development deficits in the northern part of our country. finally, the organisation of the gao local and regional forum was part of the process of deepening the dialogue between the people and the government. we have decided to increase the number of spaces for debate and dialogue throughout our territory, because democracy is a constant back and forth between the people and the rulers. democracy is only alive and well if it is constantly being fed by the consideration of the aspirations of the people. that is what you are doing here, on behalf of the peoples of europe. in the coming weeks, we will be increasing these grassroots meetings by organizing local and regional forums in all parts of the country, in order to promote free speech throughout the country. the word of the malians will guide the government's action. ladies and gentlemen, my government has fully appreciated the need to implement a policy of national reconciliation as a strategic axis for the rebuilding of a new state. to this end, i have instructed the government to set up a commission on dialogue, truth and reconciliation. follow my gaze, which turns to the soweto stadium, where the great man who started this in his country went to school. this "dialogue, truth and reconciliation" committee, instead of the "dialogue and reconciliation" committee because we felt that it is difficult to achieve a coherent and useful reconciliation and dialogue without the truth, hence this inclusion of the concept of truth will have a mandate of arrest and investigative powers in order to shed light on all the crimes committed in northern mali. it will map the serious human rights violations, while preparing the right conditions for the return of refugees and displaced persons. she'll know about all the cases, no matter where they come from. it will organise inter- and intra-community dialogues to reconnect the disparate threads between local populations and to create the conditions for a better understanding between them. it will deal with the tuareg question in its historical depth, with the knowledge of the mistakes made in the past. finally, it will be responsible for recording and archiving the national memory so that all our people are informed of what happened and that our country never again experiences a tragedy similar to that of the year 2012. ladies and gentlemen, mali has almost completed the return to normal constitutional life, after the successful presidential elections in july and august, and the holding of the first round of parliamentary elections on 24 november. with the return to normal constitutional order, mali can now embark on the search for a lasting peace, a comprehensive and inclusive peace. the government has a roadmap articulated around a series of actions to be carried out in coordination with the armed groups and other stakeholders in the crisis, on the following issues: cantonment, disarmament, demobilization; the institutional reforms that the government intends to implement in the context of regionalization; the accelerated development plan for the northern regions; the modalities of the integration of former combatants into economic circuits; security arrangements ... my government is prepared to officially begin inclusive peace talks, on the condition that the weapons are laid down. mali is the heir to a long and powerful historical tradition. we must draw on our history, on our civilization values, to bring to life all the resources of our culture, now a thousand years old, and to create a solid basis for the capitalisation of the products of knowledge, intelligence, science and technology, as revealed by the timbuktu manuscripts. on this point, i would like to thank europe again for its solidarity and indignation when the timbuktu manuscripts suffered the fate they have suffered, when the sacred places of timbuktu were violated, when the shrines of timbuktu were demolished. the international solidarity which has been warmly expressed around mali has been appreciated by all our people. - thank you. - thank you. the culture - who better than europe, the old continent of culture, could understand the interest and importance of this amputation that we have been made? - will allow us to have the resources necessary for our adaptation to the civilization of the universal. i must mention once again kidal, which is not yet under the control of the government of mali. this situation, which has lasted far too long, must end. i call on the european union to commit itself with determination alongside mali to the full implementation of security council resolution 2100 of 25 april 2013 so that armed groups disarm without delay. i urge minusma to become more operational in order to better adapt to the strategic objectives of peace, security and development of the government of mali. ladies and gentlemen, it is time for us to build a euro-african future around the common values of respect for human dignity and rights, solidarity and hospitality. africa and europe can build a win­win partnership which will enable the continent's economic take­off and successful integration into globalisation. as chair of the coordination platform for the united nations integrated strategy for the sahel, i am committed to promoting a coordinated and synergistic implementation of the international community's action in the sahel. ladies and gentlemen, mali, like post-war europe, and with the support of the international community, will emerge stronger from its war against the forces of darkness and will, in sha allah, be a model of resilience and combativeness for future generations. long live the friendship and cooperation between mali and europe! (applause) i would like to thank
we shall now resume the voting.
mr gollnisch, the question you have just raised has been considered by the president. it decided that the vote could take place and this position was supported by the conference of presidents. - after the vote:
ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the debate, mrs estrela has expressed her opinion as rapporteur, and she has every right to do so. we have heard a statement from another part of the house and i shall end the question here because otherwise this may go on and, moreover, it would not be a point of order.
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
in writing. − the 'justice' programme for the seven-year period 2014-2020 has as its main objectives the effective and coherent promotion of union legislation in the fields of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, the facilitation of access to justice and the prevention and reduction of drug demand and supply. in particular, it is precisely this last of the three objectives that we wanted to emphasize and strengthen by means of specific amendments in committee. for these reasons, i believe that the overall package proposed by the rapporteur is valid.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it means the adoption of a common justice programme for the period 2014-2020 which is not based exclusively on the legal guarantees of citizens, but on the objectives imposed by the european union. the report proposes funding for the eu's crossborder justice programme in the face of the increasing number of cases of a transnational nature in the union. it proposes positive measures for necessary cooperation in civil and criminal matters, such as training, mutual learning, etc. however, the financing of the programme is conditional on the development of indicators for monitoring the implementation of the programme. these indicators are outside any kind of judicial basis and imply political interference in judicial systems. that is why i voted against.
in writing. − in favour. the proposal is a part of the mff. it seeks to establish the justice programme for 2014-2020. originally it was planned that this programme would replace three current programmes: civil justice (jciv); criminal justice (jpen); the drug prevention and information programme (dpip). the general objective of the programme was to contribute to the creation of a european area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters with some specific objectives, to promote effective, comprehensive and consistent application of union legislation in the areas of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters among them. we, the greens, agreed that the programme is necessary. we had some reservations about the inclusion of drugs, as this might create a wrong perception that drugs should be primarily addressed from the justice perspective. we suggested ensuring that fundamental rights play a central role in the implementation of the programme. we also supported promotion of judicial training, as well as development of indicators for a better assessment of the implementation and ensuring a stronger role for the parliament in its implementation (through delegated acts).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a slight improvement in the implementation of the fundamental rights of european citizens. this report proposes a programme for the next budgetary period which for the first time covers the subject of full european citizenship. there is no european instrument to date which guarantees that fundamental rights and freedoms are respected in the member states. this programme will finance actions aimed at the development of citizens' rights, the implementation of non-discrimination, the rights of the child, etc. although this report will prove incomplete in guaranteeing fundamental rights in the union, it does promote these rights and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − this new programme aims to create an area for the promotion, development and protection of the rights of persons as recognised in the european treaties. it aims to strengthen rights such as equality between men and women, non-discrimination and combating violence against children, young people and women, but also aims to ensure the protection of privacy. i welcome the fact that funds are being efficiently managed to develop and continue these programmes and that public awareness is being supported on issues of such importance to society.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it complies with international law and allows trade flows with moldova to continue, it will have serious effects on the wine sector in many european countries. the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market and the free movement of goods. however, the fact that wine is produced in moldova at a much lower average cost will allow large wine-growing groups to buy the product in that country and bottle it in european countries at the expense of local producers and for the benefit of these large business groups. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. in 2008 the eu removed all tariffs for industrial products from moldova and improved access to the eu market for some agricultural products. these autonomous trade preferences (atp) are valid through to end 2015. such unilateral actions which go against the wto principle of non-discrimination (because they positively discriminate in favour of moldova) need to be accepted by the entire wto membership. this ‘waiver’ was valid for five years and runs out on 1. january 2014. however, the eu did not just want to turn to the wto with the request to prolong the waiver. it also wanted to enhance market access for agricultural products from moldova, especially wine, which is the major export product of moldova. the addition of wine to the list of zero tariff products came in the wake of the russian import ban for moldovan wine. the import ban was justified with ‘phytosanitary problems’, but indeed is part of the current russian threat strategy against eu eastern neighbourhood countries. greens support the measure as a concrete sign of solidarity with eastern european countries that are presently pressured by russia. greens also supported the shortening of the due legislative process, which in this case is justified by the urgency of the measure.
mr president, i voted with my group, but that does not prevent me from joining those who, like mr cofferati, mr milana and others, call for the inevitable involvement of europe in the solution of the sahara conflict. and that the people who have been forcibly occupied should achieve freedom, an initiative which was in the original position of the s&d group negotiators as a parallel political agreement. and today, on human rights day, on the funeral of mandela, whom i had the honour of meeting in oviedo, my home town, and on the centenary of willy brandt, we should be encouraged to keep a close eye on the situation of saharawi political prisoners, in particular those convicted in the rabat trial, which i found to be a complete sham. these brutal, indiscriminate and arbitrary sentences and the treatment of the moroccan occupier in prison are very much to be feared in the light of this very agreement voted here.
in writing. - the agreement between the european union and morocco also covers the waters of western sahara. the economic interests of some member states have outweighed the rights of the saharawi people and international law. this agreement is in clear violation of international law. morocco is an occupying force and has no sovereignty over western sahara. according to the united nations, western sahara has the status of an autonomous territory. consequently, morocco has no right to dispose of the natural resources of western sahara. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it makes the european union complicit in the plundering of the saharawi natural resources by the moroccan occupying force. my group is not opposed to a fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco, agreed by both parties, which guarantees the sustainable exploitation of marine resources. but we cannot show our support for the usurpation and theft of the resources of a people who, despite morocco's efforts to eliminate them, still exist and have the right and international legitimacy to exploit their natural resources. morocco continues to violate international law and the eu is acting as an accomplice by sanctioning an illegal agreement. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against because the european parliament has looked the other way and ignored the demands of the saharawi people to approve this controversial agreement. the fisheries agreement between the eu and morocco is the most shameful episode in europe's neocolonial fisheries policy. under the agreement, the moroccan government illegally grants fishing rights to the european fleet to fish in western sahara waters, in violation of international law. in addition to the flagrant violation of western sahara's rights, the agreement does not guarantee sustainability from the fisheries point of view and its economic basis is doubtful. this agreement will remain a black mark on the eu's foreign and fisheries policy.
in writing. - i appreciate the efforts made by the european commission to improve the agreement. support the reduction of financial cost in accordance with the cfp criteria, the possible improvement of profitability for the spanish fleet and measures to adapt fishing capacity to surpluses, ensuring sustainable management. i abstain because the question of western sahara remains unresolved: the agreement does not explicitly exclude its territorial waters or guarantee respect for the legitimate interests of the saharawi people. it also lacks a mechanism to verify the respect of human rights by the kingdom of morocco, which is a serious matter when one considers the constraints on sections of the population such as workers, journalists and other professionals.
in writing. - i voted in favour because this proposal will enable states to ratify ilo convention no 170, which will lead to greater safety at work and the correct use of chemicals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify ilo convention no 170 on the safety of chemicals at work. convention no 170 is of fundamental importance for the protection not only of workers but also of society and the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it implements an international labour organisation convention in european law, improving the safety conditions of workers on the continent. ilo convention 170 regulates the safety of the use of chemicals at work and improves the protection of workers who have to handle such substances, trying to prevent diseases and health problems. the report seeks to implement in european law all the provisions of the convention which fall within community competence and calls for the member states to be allowed to ratify the convention in the areas which fall within national competence. i voted in favour of this report because it improves the safety of workers.
in writing. − the desire for the protocol against the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms to achieve more accessions by member states is the basis for this report on the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition. the protocol calls on the member states to proceed and to commit themselves to the establishment of an effective and harmonized system of export or import licences and authorizations. this is desirable, however, if we move towards greater simplification and not towards further complication of the existing legislation in this field.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces the ratification at european union level of the protocol on the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition. the protocol complements the united nations convention against transnational organized crime, with the aim of enhancing the international commitments of the european union as a whole in the fight against organised crime and its activities. ratification at european level implies implementation throughout the union because the legal obstacles preventing full ratification in the member states have been removed. i voted in favour of this report because of the improvement it brings to the fight against organised crime.
in writing. − in favour. the proposal seeks to conclude on behalf of the eu the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the united nations convention against transnational organized crime. the united nations convention against transnational organized crime (untoc), adopted on 15 november 2000, is the first global instrument in the fight against transnational organised crime and trafficking in firearms. three protocols supplement the convention, providing for specific measures against specific crimes. the protocols cover respectively trafficking in persons, smuggling of migrants and illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms. the european community signed the convention on 12 december 2000. we approve the agreement. we welcome the efforts by the united nations in the fight against transnational organised crime and believe that the european union should join those efforts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents the correct implementation of the agreements reached by the european union in international fora. with the accession of romania and bulgaria, the eu agreed to negotiate mutually compensatory agreements with the members of the world trade organisation for both countries and with the other countries which had trade agreements with the new eu member states. the agreement is not problematic and favours the maintenance of relations with china, since trade volumes are low, mainly in agri-foodstuffs. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it represents a fundamental improvement in the quality of meat imported into the eu, it does imply a step forward in trade relations between the two blocs. because of differences in the hormone content of beef between us and eu beef, the eu blocked imports and the us retaliated with sanctions that have seriously affected the livestock sector. the agreement provides for progress to be made in this area by 2015 without compromising on the maximum hormone content of beef, but allowing trade relations in the sector to be normalised. however, such standardization will in turn lead to dangerous competition for european farmers. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − against. the european union and the united states have been engaged in a long-running dispute over the eu’s ban on hormone-treated beef. nevertheless, on 13 may 2009, the eu and the us signed a memorandum of understanding (mou), paving the way to a definite resolution of the so-called ‘beef hormone dispute’. so far, for us the greens, we are far away from an acceptable text.
in writing. the first fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire was signed in 1990. this agreement, renewed in 2013 for a further five years, concerns fishing opportunities and defines the financial counterpart between the two entities. the majority of ivorian tuna production, with an average of about 55 000 tonnes per year, is exported to the eu. i am voting in favour of this protocol because it is beneficial for both parties, in line with the expectations of the european institutions (promotion of aquaculture, combating iuu fishing and data confidentiality) and because it also offers the possibility of creating new jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contains a balanced fisheries agreement, negotiated sovereignly between the two parties and which does not contain any violation of international law. this is an agreement which started in 1990 and involves a relatively long-term partnership which brings benefits to both parties, with côte d'ivoire sharing in the benefits of the agreement. this collaboration agreement will allow 28 freezer tuna seiners and 10 french and spanish flag longliners to participate in the sustainable exploitation of these waters and provides economic compensation for the country. as a result of fair negotiations and no violation of the law, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because it is part of the commitment of the european institutions to the outermost territories such as the canary islands, which prove by deeds and not just words that europe is a territory of values where solidarity is practised and sustainable activities and sectors of activity that seek profitability are encouraged even in the most difficult conditions. this decision supports the canary islands fisheries sector, extends the existing tariff agreement and ensures that the local fisheries sector meets the needs of internal supply, while allowing the import flows to the union under these conditions to remain predictable and clearly identifiable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a measure of economic support to an outermost region in line with the treaty. the report proposes authorising import quotas for certain fishery products from third countries free of customs duties from the european union. spain has requested the extension of these import quotas which would otherwise expire on 1 january 2014. this measure is designed to guarantee internal consumption and to compensate the islands' fishing industry for the transport costs incurred by their access to the common market due to their geographical location. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it is a measure to support the economy of the canary islands.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows the mobilisation of resources to alleviate the consequences of unemployment in the mobile telephony sector in finland. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the european union. in particular, eur 9.81 million is being mobilised to finance programmes for the 3719 workers made redundant in various subcontractors of the nokia company due to the relocation of production to asia. these scarce funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama suffered by the workers. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows the mobilisation of resources to alleviate the consequences of unemployment in the renewable energy sector in germany. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the european union. in particular, eur 2 305 357 is mobilised to finance programmes for the 875 workers made redundant in various subcontracting companies of first solar due to the fall in demand in the sector. these scarce funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama suffered by the workers. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. according to the german authorities, the measures initiated on 1 january 2013 combine to form a coordinated package of personalised services and represent active labour market measures with the aim of reintegrating the workers into the labour market. it has to be noted that more than half of the egf support will be spent on allowances – 875 workers are said to receive during their active participation in the measures a subsistence allowance (estimated cost eur 2 714 per worker over nine months). parliament further notes that the application includes a lump sum of eur 1 869 activation premium for 200 workers who quickly find a job without further assistance after the conclusion of the measures. this is not in line with the spirit of the egf regulation which foresees that the egf support should primarily be allocated to job search and training programmes instead of contributing directly to financial allowances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows the mobilisation of resources to alleviate the consequences of unemployment in the renewable energy sector in denmark. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the european union. in particular, eur 6 364 643 is being mobilised to finance programmes for the 611 workers made redundant in various subcontracting companies of the vestas company due to the fall in demand in the sector. these scarce funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama suffered by the workers. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although the association agreement introduces numerous measures for the promotion of human rights and the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, it represents a boost to transatlantic trade which will introduce aggressive competition for european small and mediumsized enterprises. international trade between relatively similar economies such as canada's and europe's only increases competition between industrial systems. in the serious situation of the european economy, such treaties will only lead to more closures and more unemployment. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − against. contrary to what the rapporteur suggests, we greens oppose to the conclusion of such an agreement.
in writing. - i voted against this report despite the fact that it includes new control measures for the banking sector, because it assumes the rescue of financial institutions as a fundamental measure for economic development. financial bailouts in the southern european countries have caused the current state of the economy, squandering public resources to secure funds for private entities that are financed through the interest on public debt. the rescue of financial institutions is an attack on european citizens, since it means that the common resources are being put into the pockets of a financial sector which has been defrauding and impoverishing europeans. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the rapporteur, currently taking a market infrastructure file through trilogue (central securities depositaries) and having been shadow on another key market infrastructure file (‘emir’) concerning clearing houses, had focused exclusively on these types of firms. our main aim was to: call for the use of the vast amount of reporting data now required under a plethora of legislative acts to monitor the flow of risk throughout the union and identify hotspots; stress that any recovery and resolution mechanism requires supervisors to develop a ‘ladder of intervention’ – relevant and comprehensive dashboards of key indicators to monitor the health of financial institutions and trigger early intervention; call for consideration of r&r mechanisms for insurers and re-insurers as well (following iais and fsb principles). the final compromise text was satisfactory for us, covering all our desiderata.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it proposes a multi-billion dollar investment in the space industry, while europe has important industrial sectors which are suffering from the crisis and laying off thousands of workers. the companies that make up the fabric of the space industry are strongly linked to the arms industry and it is striking that the european union is supporting this sector while leaving many industries within the member states of the union to their destruction. this policy includes support for the galileo programme, with future military applications, which is the main interest behind support for this industry. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − against. we believe that calling for better integration and coordination of eu space programmes is a positive aspect, along with the establishment of a european sst programme, but the overall purpose of the report is to justify investment of more public funds into the space industry, without presenting evidence that this will truly result in a general interest positive effect, an aim that cannot be supported by our group.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an important boost for the development of the information and communication technologies sector which could generate many jobs on the continent. europe must adapt to technological change in a way that creates jobs and copes with the serious economic crisis we are going through. the cloud, as an open way of locating information, offers unlimited potential for business development by providing unlimited access to virtually all of the world's information. because i believe that this report represents an important boost to a sector which can generate thousands of jobs on the continent, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. cloud computing has a huge potential and should provide benefits for business, citizens and the public sector but, as a new model of networked computing, poses some legal and contractual risks. also, we must not forget that when developing any strategic framework of action, and in particular this future cloud computing strategy, we have to try and be as horizontal as possible without taking for granted any circumstances that might not seem to directly affect its development. accordingly, infrastructure policies are crucial: strong fixed and mobile communication networks are prerequisite in order to grasp the full potential of the cloud and consequently it is regrettable that the connecting europe facilities communication will not be able to perform adequately if they are not provided with proper financial resources. the report achieves a balanced approach in promoting the use of cloud services while setting for the commission minimum guidance on protecting citizens’ interests especially in regard to openness, transparency and data protection.
in writing. - i have today supported the adoption of the report on cloud computing in europe, which highlights its untapped potential but warns of the need to protect data from third country surveillance and to inform consumers of their rights in terms of privacy and responsibility. without an adequate communication infrastructure and community standards, the growing potential for competitiveness of the cloud will not be exploited, although it should not be forgotten that it must be accompanied by a common regulatory framework for protection as there are considerable risks in security and data protection. i personally believe that smes can take advantage of this instrument to reduce agency, administration and time costs, albeit with strict contracts and terms of use.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it approves the report of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). the report argues that this regulatory body should be larger in order to coordinate the sectors in the different member states and to guarantee its independence from the national sector bodies and the european institutions. the report focuses on the importance of independence in regulators to prevent the influence of private actors and to operate for their benefit. to defend the functioning of this important sector of the economy it is essential to develop independent regulators. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. overall, the report states that berec as such is generally functioning well. berec (and its predecessors) appear to have enabled a gradual deepening of mutual trust between nras contributing towards the effective achievement of the berec objectives. in order to improve that, a series of good proposals are being put in and this adds to the generally favourable opinion, therefore our group voted for the report in the committee on industry, research and energy. the proposal is to also vote for it in the plenary.
in writing. - today, my report on the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) was adopted in plenary. in it, i propose a redefinition of the mission of this office to make the most of its potential role in consolidating the electronic communications market at european level. the operation of berec can be improved, but it is on the right track, especially in view of the limited resources at its disposal. i therefore urge the eu institutions and the member states to ensure adequate funding for this body while maintaining greater independence where possible.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a missed opportunity to achieve a common fisheries policy which would give the sector a boost without destroying marine stocks. our parliamentary group is trying to defend the natural and social environment of fishing communities, including fishermen as a fundamental part of it. small-scale and artisanal fishing is the sector which generates the most employment and allows for a more sustainable relationship with the environment, but it does not seem to have a place in this common fisheries policy. i voted against this report because the fishing communities throughout europe need a policy that meets their needs, creates jobs and maintains the marine stocks on which they depend, rather than proposing an economic area where large fishermen can exploit marine resources without restrictions.
in writing. − today, the reform of the common fisheries policy, which will enter into force on 1 january 2014, was adopted in plenary. after intensive negotiations, this regulation has been adopted, introducing sustainable fishing as a priority objective: discards are gradually prohibited, the maximum sustainable yield of a fishing area is required to be respected in order to maintain the fish stock in the long term, and small-scale fishing is encouraged. in addition, more importance is attached to regional decisions. given spain's long tradition in the fisheries sector and its great importance for production and employment, i welcome this sustainable fishing strategy to ensure a future for this activity and for marine species.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr stevenson on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation on the common organization of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. among the most important issues, i would like to stress, with regard to products from catching fisheries, that the report takes account of the need to regulate the provision of information on the type of gear.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the cmo for fisheries is one of the instruments which could make it possible to achieve a fisheries policy which would create jobs without destroying marine resources, but this proposal does not seek to intervene in the market which is causing the disaster, but to further deregulate it. our parliamentary group is trying to defend the natural and social environment of fishing communities, including fishermen as a fundamental part of it. this proposal allows large companies to destroy local artisanal production networks, which should instead be encouraged through market regulation. it is a cmo for the benefit of the big companies and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it imposes restrictions on high-altitude fishing and on large-scale fishermen, whose activity is the most aggressive against the stocks of the marine environment. the big fishermen take advantage of their great capacity to operate in international waters where, in theory, there is no agency responsible for ensuring the implementation of fishing rules. deep waters are of fundamental importance for the entire marine ecosystem as there are many migratory species whose replacement rate is affected if they are exploited above their maximum sustainable yield. the report amends the existing rules on deep-sea fishing so that fishing vessels must exploit fishery resources in a more sustainable way in deep waters. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against because the devastation caused by these indiscriminate fishing practices on sensitive environments - such as the seabed and reefs - as well as on threatened species is well documented. contrary to the false arguments against phasing out, used by a strong but unrepresentative lobby, these proposals would affect a handful of eu vessels and would have enormous environmental benefits. unfortunately, meps have given themselves over to lobbying. overfishing has driven fishermen into deeper and deeper waters. as the united nations has stressed, these deep-sea environments are ecologically fragile, with unique biodiversity and slower life cycles. the new proposed rules aimed to protect deep-sea species, with sustainable quotas and management plans. however, all this is massively undermined by the lack of support for the gradual disappearance of destructive trawling and gillnets.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it introduces the authorization of the use of military units in humanitarian disasters, such as the very serious situation in the philippines after typhoon haiyan. the report stresses the need to use all available means in the event of tragedies such as the one mentioned. however, the intentions of militarizing disaster relief are obvious. the concept of 'humanitarian' in reference to military interventions has been used as a justification by the imperialist forces of nato for several years now. the use of the same terminology in disasters is the justification for allowing military deployments of european forces in strategic areas, under the pretext of 'humanitarian aid'. i consider it essential that all available means be deployed in the philippines, but i voted against because of the real military intent contained in this report.
mr president, the first european mortgage directive was adopted this morning with over 86% of the votes in favour. i would therefore like to express my satisfaction as rapporteur for this robust birth and, at this time, my thanks to all those who have contributed to making it possible during these three years in parliament. i explained - in the plenary session last september - the reasons for supporting this directive. the mortgage market is very important for european families. it is the biggest financial commitment of his life, the largest and the longest lasting, and it represents 53% of the european economy. this directive can therefore contribute to the recovery of the european economy. it is an important first step in addressing the problems of responsible lending, fair lending and avoiding private over-indebtedness at european level. and, in addition, the member states have a two-year period to develop it. nothing in the directive precludes member states from adopting social measures, measures which seek to address the problems arising from solvency difficulties in the private sector and which also address the needs of the most vulnerable population. i therefore urge the member states to draw inspiration from the principles of this directive and to take the opportunity to develop it to address these problems.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr sánchez presedo on his work and to stress that this directive adds value to the regulation of a market which in 2009 represented 52% of the european gross domestic product. it does so because it adds a framework of minimum guarantees for customers which starts from the basis of considering housing a basic right and should put an end to abuses, such as evictions, which are experienced, for example, in spain. it also includes measures to make contracts with special risk and the solvency assessment processes more transparent and provides that customers are not penalised for early repayment of loans. we also encourage more informed decisions, protecting a process of reflection and effective advice to clients. in short, we are taking an opportunity to show that europe is worth a lot. let us now be extremely vigilant in ensuring that this directive is transposed accurately and rapidly, especially in those states which are currently experiencing the most problems.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains many well-intentioned measures, it does not include any reference to legislation on the payment of a fee. the lack of control of the mortgage sector in europe has allowed a sector to operate in the most absolute illegality, which has driven more than 400,000 people from their homes in spain alone. this legislative amendment does not take into account the demands of european citizens or even the fundamental right to housing. the european union has allowed the spanish financial sector to operate illegally for almost 20 years by applying the spanish mortgage law, in violation of its obligations as guardian of european law. the only answer has been this decaffeinated proposal which contains only voluntary concepts but without any political will to change the situation. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr paul murphy on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on imports of rice originating in bangladesh, as imports of rice from the least developed countries are now fully liberalized.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it implies the correct implementation of the rules in the field of international trade, avoiding overreaching the sovereignty of third countries. the rapporteur has considerably softened the european commission's interventionist proposal to impose a tax on rice exports to bangladesh. we recognize the right of the people to implement such taxes, but not the eu's right to demand them. the report, once this problem of interference with third countries has been removed, seeks only to regulate trade in a way that is consistent with international law and regulations. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against the report, in line with the previous vote and the express tolerance of my delegation. asturias, my region, has a strong industrial tradition and feels damaged by this report, which does not value our interests or our harmonious progress.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it recognises the ineffectiveness of the eu's emissions trading system. the report credits the surplus that occurred in 2011 of almost eur 1 billion and that has continued to increase due to the establishment of limits well above the actual emission levels so that companies did not have to pay anything and even generate profits from the exchange with these rights. these are the real reasons for the deep failure of the emissions trading system, which has proved to be a poor tool for meeting the emission control objectives. because it recognizes that failure, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. for although environmentalists advocate the need for a much more ambitious structural reform of the ets, today's vote at least saves the only economic tool the eu has to encourage member states to meet their national commitments. under pressure from very powerful industrial lobbies, many in this parliament want to kill off all european climate action. however, we are far from having climate ambition that is up to the challenge. the price of a ton of co2 will remain ridiculous. the european union must do better if it is to ensure the success of the decisive conference in paris in 2015. the commission estimates that the energy transition based on energy savings and renewables could create up to 5 million jobs in europe by 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it opposes the adoption of the council regulation on the criteria for determining when paper ceases to be waste. the council regulation will make it possible for paper with a high content of other substances to be disregarded as waste and, as a product, to be exported to third countries, with the adverse consequences this can have for the environment in many regions. in this proposal the commission has not been able to demonstrate a valid justification for considering that such recovered paper can be considered as 'product' before its processing, allowing in practice the export of waste. it is further proof of a european commission at the mercy of lobbyists. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it deals very specifically with the problems faced by roma women who are victims of double discrimination on the grounds of their ethnic origin and their gender. the report covers in great detail the problems that can affect roma women, their lack of access to educational resources, from primary education to university, their unequal access to labour markets, as well as the risks to their health, etc. the report calls on the commission to develop a monitoring system to monitor changes in the situation of these women and on the member states to develop specific actions with regard to roma women in national roma integration plans. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. our groupʼs position regarding roma inclusion can be summarised as follows: combating discrimination is a precondition for true socioeconomic inclusion, by adopting a combination of a minority rights approach with an anti-discrimination approach for achieving substantive equality. we insist on green values: free movement, equality (notably in access to rights, especially social rights), non-discrimination; elimination of unlawful practices (intra-eu expulsions, forced evictions, police violence against roma), ensuring equal access to recourse and fight against impunity, urging the commission to sanction member states that do not respect eu law and the charter; any national roma integration strategy should be an insiderʼs approach designed by roma for roma which means empowerment of roma, inclusion in the decision-making process, hiring of roma staff/mediators in key positions at local, national and eu level; promotion of best practices; facilitation of access to funds for roma ngos; evaluation of the national plans, based on benchmarks and indicators established by the fundamental rights agency. we must treat anti-gypsyism as we treat anti-semitism.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the state of south sudan must not be an appendage of the imperialist interests of the foreign powers which financed its independence. the report includes some aspects of the arrangements needed to allow european capital into the country, so that the eu can benefit from its independence. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the international community has kept step with events and the united states, the european union, norway and 40 other governments and international organisations held a forum meeting in washington on 16 april 2013. the forum saw the launch of a partnership to strengthen governance, political inclusiveness and sustainable development in south sudan and to consolidate the progress made since it gained independence. within this framework and alongside the troika formed by the us, uk and norway, the european union played a key role in drawing up a road map to establish a new partnership with south sudan, which will take shape as a new deal compact based on reciprocal undertakings, likely to be endorsed during a high-level investment conference later in 2013. south sudan must meet certain benchmarks in terms of improved economic and political governance, financial management of the public sector, natural resource management and the fight against corruption in exchange for financial aid from its international partners, including budgetary support from international financial institutions, a statebuilding contract with the european union and a multi-donor south sudan partnership fund.
mr president, i want to support the contents of this report - and i have done so - because they are basic to an industry which accounts for four per cent of europe's gross domestic product. it employs 12 million of our fellow citizens and is fundamental to economic growth and to our position as an industrial powerhouse and a knowledge and innovation hub in the world. i think we need more applied research on alternative energy propulsion and i commend the chapter on political governance. i am sure that all the authorities and bodies that have experience and good practices that work will be involved in this effort. in this respect, i would like to draw attention to the basque automotive intelligence centre, where major brands cooperate on innovation issues of common interest, replacing fierce competition with a safe procedure for sharing the basics without giving up differentiation. with that recipe, the sector can continue to grow in the basque country. i am also in favour of replacing the concept of offshoring with multi-localization, because to keep jobs here today we have to move intelligently into emerging markets. i hope that we will be able to move quickly from words to deeds, which is what we usually fail to do in europe.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a blank cheque for a car industry, when they are the main beneficiaries of industrial relocation. the car industry is one of the most heavily subsidised european industries with public resources, controlled by large multinational firms that continue to earn millions in profits. the report nevertheless points to the need for restructuring in the sector, giving the green light for the dismissal of thousands of jobs in europe. it is a report which was drawn up by industry lobbies and approved by the majority of the european parliament. it is because of this new attack on industrial workers that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − against. europe’s automotive industry is in the throes of a crisis of unprecedented proportions. in 2012, only around 12 million vehicles were sold (as opposed to 17 million in 2007, just before the economic crisis) – the lowest sales figures since 1995. the figures for early 2013 indicate that sales have now fallen to a level similar to that in the early 1990s. the principal cause of this decline in sales is the sharp and lasting reduction in eu household purchasing power brought about by the economic crisis, as purchasing and maintaining a vehicle is the second largest household expenditure item, after housing. the question is: is that sector, and in this way, what we really need to support? we greens don’t think so.
in writing. - spain is the second largest car producer in the european union, and i voted in favour of the cars 2020 report: towards a strong, competitive and sustainable european automotive industry. an action plan including four pillars to maintain its value chain: improving market conditions and competitiveness, investing in innovation and new green and sustainable technologies, anticipating market changes and managing restructuring. structural reforms are needed to increase competitiveness, to restore domestic demand and, above all, to prevent further job losses in this sector. if europe wants to maintain its world leadership as an economic power, it needs to maintain a strong industry. the automotive and its ancillary industries are a key player in this respect. as a reminder, it is relevant to note that the majority of spanish applications for participation in the european globalisation adjustment fund are concentrated in workers made redundant from automobile companies.
i voted against the resolution adopted because i support the estrela report on reproductive health, which i consider to be a practical projection on a vital issue of european union values. we are talking about fundamental rights such as personal freedom, health or equality between men and women. these rights are not guaranteed throughout the european union and are basic to health, to prevent the increase in sexually transmitted diseases and to end everything from unwanted pregnancies to practices such as genital mutilation, as well as to work for equality in a field that is basic to personal freedom and in which machismo continues to wreak havoc. in this way we advance the eradication of poverty and promote the enjoyment of a dignified life for all. it is a pity that this has happened, and i want you to know that i find it shameful that today we have received - through this gift - an absurd message that support for contraception has something to do with rejecting motherhood or hating childhood. i consider this an insult and a further reason to support this report and to continue to work in this direction from the institutions.
in writing. - i voted against the amendment by the ppe and ecr groups because it degraded the scope of the report adopted by the femm committee. unfortunately the amendment has been passed, so women will see their rights diminished. a backward and limited view of sexuality has been imposed. i support edite estrela's decision to remove your name from the report.
in writing. − centre-right meps today brought shame on parliament and its long-standing role in promoting basic rights. the report adopted by parliamentʼs committee on womenʼs rights and gender equality, which was rejected today, aimed to highlight the importance of these basic rights for the health and well-being of women across europe. contrary to the claims of those lobbying against it, the non-legislative report respected the subsidiarity of eu member states and did not seek to impose a universal view on pregnancy termination, other than that where it is provided, it should be safe. instead, it was a report about basic rights. sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) are under increasing pressure in some member states, despite being based on core eu values and central to efforts to promote gender equality. the estrela report looked at the situation in the eu and set out a common eu approach to ensure srhr are prioritised and promoted. with diverging rates of maternal mortality and teenage births in europe, more needs to be done to promote best practice in the eu. sadly, ideological myopia has totally skewed the debate on this report. the outcome today – and the conduct of centre-right meps – is a sorry episode for parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to propose a regulation of voluntary activities at european union level. the report highlights very positive aspects such as the recognition of volunteering as work experience within the curriculum vitae, or the implementation of the ilo guidelines in this area, as well as the fact that member states are also implementing them. the report also includes some points which may be controversial in the european context, such as not prohibiting the employment of volunteers in place of basic public services, for example care for the elderly, which should be a fundamental competence of states. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. the new rules are intended to improve the conditions for users to access bank accounts by making it easier to use them for the most common financial transactions. among the new features included are the simplification of account cost information in a more simple and standardised way for customers, the right of any legal resident in the eu to open a bank account in another member state, and the facilitation of the conditions for transferring accounts from one bank to another. i believe that these new measures will ensure greater transparency in banking practices, as they will create greater confidence in the citizens, and that is why i have supported this proposal.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, the vilnius summit is continuing in the streets and squares of kiev and other ukrainian cities. the massive support for european integration, for reform and for modernisation that has been shown by ukrainian citizens over recent weeks suggests that a large part of the population has made up its mind about where ukraine should go, and that ukrainians are committed to defending their choice by peacefully exercising their civil rights, their freedom of association and freedom of expression. their voice has been heard. i firmly believe that ukraine and the european union have been bound in association – unprecedented by its depth, breadth, and strength – not only by the letter, but by the spirit of this association agreement, which is maybe worth a million times more than a simple stroke of the pen. i admire the ukrainian nation’s love for freedom and the maturity of its european spirit. it is not the european union’s compensation that they seek; it is a chance to live by european values. the agreement is also a framework for some of the investments that ukraine will have to make if it is serious about its modernisation pledge. modernisation and investment go hand-in-hand. there can be no modernisation without genuine effort, political will and adequate investment. the speculation we have seen about the alleged cost of ukraine’s modernisation is unfounded and unjustified, as are the trade restrictions imposed by russia. they are meant to dissuade the ukrainian people from taking up new opportunities. once again, in our partnership we respect and defend the rights and freedoms of each individual, and we must defend the right of every nation to make its own choices. the people of ukraine, its independence and sovereignty should not become victims of geopolitical zero-sum games or secret agreements. we are in permanent contact both with government and opposition, as well as civil society to help find a way out of the current political stalemate. that way has to be based on non-violence and on compromises which are conducive to rapid political and economic stabilisation of the country. this must include a swift and credible investigation into the police brutality on maidan on the night of 29 to 30 november. a panel with experts from government, opposition and from the council of europe will hopefully very soon be formed to monitor these investigations. i call upon the authorities to release all those peaceful demonstrators who remain in custody. ukraine cannot afford more tension and ever deeper division, in particular at a time of a looming financial crisis. the european union is called upon by all sides to be helpful in such a situation. president barroso has already discussed the european support that is needed and high representative/vice president of the commission, cathy ashton, has arrived in kiev today. we stand ready to help and support ukraine on its modernisation journey, including through topping up imf loans with macro-financial assistance, stepping up the european union’s financial assistance programmes to help ukraine implement the agreement, when signed, and helping to bring on board other international partners. we are also willing to use our dialogue with russia to clarify that the agreement with ukraine will not harm russia’s economic interests. however, the agreement itself is a bilateral issue between the european union and ukraine. as president barroso stated in vilnius, times of limited sovereignty are over in europe. the developments around ukraine have marked the vilnius summit to a considerable extent. this should not however cloud the fact that vilnius was an important step in the development and advancement of the eastern partnership. vilnius was the first summit delivering tangible results, based on the steady work on political association and economic integration that the european union has been doing with partners since the adoption of the prague declaration in may 2009 and the warsaw declaration in 2011. let me enumerate them: 1. we initialled the association agreement/dcfta with georgia and the republic of moldova;2. we signed the visa facilitation agreement with azerbaijan (after a similar agreement had been signed earlier this year with armenia); 3. we signed a framework participation agreement for eu-led crisis management operations with georgia;4. we initialled the common aviation area agreement with ukraine and endorsed the eastern partnership transport network and list of priority projects agreed by transport ministers in october 2013; 5. we had a very successful eastern partnership business forum meeting and civil society conference in vilnius on the eve of the summit; and 6. belarus finally expressed its readiness to take up our offer to begin negotiations on a visa facilitation and readmission agreement. this is very important indeed for the citizens of belarus. we also agreed a joint summit declaration which sets ambitious goals to be reached by 2015. let there be no doubt that respect for our common values will remain at the centre of our partnership: an independent judiciary, tackling corruption, and effective and accountable public administration will be essential to ensure agreements serve those for whom they have been negotiated – namely the citizens. looking ahead, we will intensify our support for broader society – business communities, local and regional authorities, parliaments and, most of all, civil society which is vital for building the constituencies for reforms. vilnius has also proven that differentiation is at the heart of the eastern partnership. we will be as ambitious as our partners are willing to be and we will deliver to the extent to which our partners are able to deliver on reforms. but combined with greater differentiation is our strong determination to pursue our common agenda with all six partners through multilateral dialogue and cooperation. the eastern partnership is all about creating the conditions that will unlock and fulfil the potential for growth, enterprise, and creativity of citizens in eastern europe. the partnership is being tested by the decision of ukraine not to sign the aa/dcfta at this stage, but the european union has come out stronger because it did not compromise when faced with external pressure. it stood firm. it stood united and keeps the door to finishing the transformation of partner countries, within a clear rules-based framework, firmly open. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the vilnius summit will not exactly go down in history as one of the most brilliant moments in the european union's external action. it is difficult to understand why no one, until the very last moment, could have anticipated the knock on the door of the president of ukraine, who has not only made a fool of us but has also called into question the european union's own neighbourhood policy. there will be time, commissioner, for self-criticism. i believe that what we have to do at this moment is to articulate from the institutions a response that can live up to the expectations of the millions of citizens of ukraine who did want that association agreement with the european union. and it is curious, mr president, to see how scepticism is growing within our member states and how the lives of literally millions of citizens in that country are at stake - as we have seen this weekend in kiev from mr buzek, mr brok, mr saryusz-wolski, myself and other colleagues from the liberal group - who really do want a closer association with the european union. mr commissioner, at this time i believe that this parliament must support the high representative's mission on the basis of avoiding any outcome of the crisis by violence; supporting in a determined way fundamental rights, the right to assembly, demonstration and expression; calling for the perpetrators of violence to be identified and brought to justice; and, most importantly, mr president, establishing a peaceful and democratic channel so that the people can be heard and so that the citizens of ukraine, and not others, can decide their own destiny.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my gratitude to the political groups, the representatives of the commission and the council, and also to the services of parliament and those of my group, because they have really helped me a great deal in the preparation of this report on the association instrument. it was not easy, we were starting from scratch and there was a lot to deal with, a lot of expectations to be reconciled, but i think that in the end the vote in the committee on foreign affairs showed that the work of everyone together has made this report a success. i shall not go into technical matters, madam president, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to touch a little on the issues that affect this report in this world in which we live, which is becoming increasingly volatile, complex and uncertain. we live in an interconnected multipolar international system in which no country is big enough to impose its interests alone and in which the nature of power is changing. moreover, today global competition is increasing. if we have lived for years in the globalization of opportunity, with the outbreak of the economic crisis we have experienced the lessons of the dangers of this globalization. in this global competition, it is sometimes difficult to keep a job or to find one. and all this creates fear and uncertainty in our citizens. in this context, i believe it is of the utmost importance that the european union has an external action instrument - the association instrument - which is intended primarily to provide financial support to the european union in developing our relations with our strategic partners, whether national or regional, as well as with third states and regional bodies, in order to meet global challenges and threats. i would also like to say that there is often a temptation to look the other way, to try to escape from this globalising phenomenon, to seek refuge in populist nationalisms which lie and promise well-being and prosperity through the re-establishment of frontiers and outdated protectionism. ladies and gentlemen, the world today needs actors and policies that generate stability and predictability. the european union, through its various instruments of external action, must be an effective actor in meeting these needs. we must be effective as global actors in the defense of peace and development in the world - especially in our immediate neighbourhood - and, as the region with the world's largest gdp and the largest global trading bloc, we must be key actors in the defense of market stability and in the promotion of global trade rules, as well as in the promotion of energy and food security and environmental and social standards. this requires working with our strategic partners. in this respect, the countries of latin america, as in my case, deserve special attention. we share with them a very similar way of approaching issues of global concern; it is the only region in the world with which we have a bi-regional partnership as a whole; we maintain with them an extensive and dynamic network of association and trade agreements and they can be part of a renewed transatlantic triangular agenda as well as a bridge between the european union and the pacific, both through our bilateral agreements and through possible partnerships with regional bodies such as the pacific alliance. as i said, the world today is a much more competitive place: the rise of emerging powers and the entry into the market of millions of new workers and consumers, together with the struggle for resources - to give a few examples - are good evidence of such competition. the european union must therefore, if it is to remain the same economic and commercial power it is and at the same time maintain its welfare model, its jobs, go out into the world and become more competitive. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the pilot project on the european territorial cooperation goal. i would like to conclude, madam president, by welcoming the creation of this instrument of association, a specific and relevant instrument for supporting and promoting the values and interests of the european union in the world.
opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - madam president, the scope of the association instrument for cooperation with third countries has been extended: it used to be limited to the most industrialized countries, but now it also includes middle-income countries. and from the point of view of the development committee, in middle-income countries there are now more poor people than in the least developed countries. what's the reason? because some large countries, like china, india and nigeria, for example, have had great development and have reached this middle income level, but they have very large pockets of poverty and underdevelopment. and that is something the union must take into account when cooperating with those countries, trying to channel aid towards sectors, territories and minorities that need to continue to enjoy or continue to have that cooperation. of course, in this case, as in all development cooperation, the fight for human rights, good governance and democracy must be maintained. the european union must encourage the emerging and developing countries to take on the fight against poverty in their own countries, using their own resources and efforts.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the council and commission teams on the important work they have done in updating the european neighbourhood instrument, having succeeded in reflecting the new regional realities and in structuring this instrument in such a way that the basis for the implementation of the principles enshrined in the new neighbourhood policy, such as the principle of 'more for more', has been strengthened. the application of this principle has been rightly established taking into account the needs, the commitment to democracy and the level of ambition in its will to associate with the european union, as well as the commitment to political, economic and social reforms. the promotion of new governance, institutional consolidation and market economy principles, as well as the opening of goods and services markets and legal certainty for investments by both sides, are elements that will foster the political and economic development of the partner countries, thus facilitating the processes of democratic consolidation and political transition in which they are engaged.
the committee on budgets' rapporteur for the opinion. - madam president, eur 63 billion, which is 6% of the current multiannual financial framework, 3% more than the previous financial framework, but 16% less than the commission's initial forecasts in relation to the supposed needs of external action. the crisis should not be an excuse for relegating the european union's foreign policy, because the european union does not run out of internal resources; on the contrary, it has an inescapable external dimension. and the resources for external action are on an already historic trajectory, which is their insufficiency. this is particularly true of the association instrument, whose main objective is nothing less than to implement the external dimension of the 2020 strategy for growth and jobs with all developed countries and with developing countries with which the european union shares strategic interests. for that work, it has only nine hundred and fifty-four million euros. it's clearly insufficient. in any event, the socialist group is particularly pleased that this instrument is not only applied to the brics or the so-called g-groups, but has been extended to other countries, namely those eight latin american countries which have left the development cooperation policy and can now benefit from this instrument. in any case, the question now is how and when we are going to spend or how and for what we are going to use these instruments that have been improved over the course of an agonizing negotiation process. there is more transparency, there is a greater role for civil society, there are - let us hope - greater synergies between the instruments and policies of the european union, and let us hope there is also greater coordination. all of this will be to the benefit of the union's budget and, above all, to the benefit of the european union's external action, so that we can finally be the relevant actor we want to be.
madam president, we are against the majority in this house who argue that what we need to do in the world at the moment is to globalize the economy without globalizing rights. the majority of the house agrees with this principle and applies, for the european union and beyond, the deregulatory principle - in the economic sector, in the financial sector, betting on privatizations - which is leading the european union to a dead end and to unprecedented social aggression. this principle is to be applied to the neighbourhood policy and the pre-accession policy. and from our point of view it is unacceptable. what we do not want for the people of europe we cannot want for other peoples who are not yet part of the european union. that is why the principle of conditionality is intended to bring to its knees people who want to join the european union on the basis of the deregulatory principle. we disagree. we also do not agree with the european neighbourhood instrument being used in a torturous way, incorporating territories such as the occupied palestinian territory and forgetting the autonomous territory of western sahara. we do not agree with that line of thinking.
madam president, i welcome, firstly, the fact that the amount foreseen for external action in the next financial framework has been increased by three per cent compared with the previous one. in an increasingly complex and poorly governed world, the new partnership instrument will be useful in strengthening relations with our strategic partners, but also with third states and regional bodies that share our vision of tackling global challenges. in this connection, i would like to stress the importance of latin american countries, for example, for the european union. the arab spring and the strategic repositioning of the united states are forcing the union and its member states to assume greater responsibilities towards their neighbours, both east and south. i hope that the definition of the 'more for more' principle in the european neighbourhood instrument will help to accompany the transition processes of neighbours. the union remains the largest donor of development cooperation and i welcome the commitment of the development cooperation financing instrument to the fight against poverty in low-income countries and also in middle-income countries. the european union must be a provider of peace, development, stability and integration and a guarantor of respect for human rights. i hope that the instruments we are discussing today will help to maintain these hallmarks of the union.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for the development cooperation financing instrument and the negotiating team for the work they have done, especially in view of the amount of time devoted to delegated acts and that we have only five months left to negotiate an instrument of about 20 billion euro. anyway, the result is positive. we will have more control over every euro that the taxpayer contributes to development cooperation and this parliament will guarantee transparency, efficiency and better coordination of aid to development cooperation with the aim of eradicating poverty. aid will be directed to those most in need, including in middle-income countries, especially in latin america. countries such as colombia, peru, ecuador, cuba and south africa will be able to continue to benefit in the medium term from european union aid, especially because this parliament considered it crucial from the outset. it is important to note that 20% of the benchmark will be dedicated to basic social services with a focus on education and health. i believe that a new period for development cooperation is opening up in the coming years and that the european union has achieved an instrument that is up to the challenge.
madam president, i would like to express my satisfaction with the final text on the establishment of the development cooperation financing instrument and congratulate the rapporteur on having accepted the proposal of the committee on development. this instrument reinforces the union's commitment to the fight against poverty, both in low-income and in middle-income countries, and to human development. and i am particularly pleased that three andean countries - peru, colombia and ecuador - are considered beneficiaries of bilateral cooperation by way of exceptionalism and therefore recipients of bilateral regional and thematic aid, as i suggested by an amendment to the commission proposal together with mr salafranca and mr díaz de mera. this instrument strengthens links with latin america, a region of importance to the european union and a priority for spain, by maintaining it as a single region, with a financial envelope of up to eur 2.5 billion. finally, i am pleased that the erasmus mundus programme, which does so much to bring students from our regions closer together, is maintained.
member of the commission. − madam president, i think there has been a lot of convergence in the debate. i would say that there were no urgent questions asked of the commission. this means that i can again congratulate all the rapporteurs for the very, very good work done, because all the financial instruments have a lot of details and that makes it very difficult to find the right balance in the proposal as a whole, but it has been done. i would just conclude by giving us more courage as regards what we have achieved with this instrument. i would just mention that, in ethiopia, 12 years ago, every fifth child never lived past his fifth birthday. today, the rate is roughly three times less children dying at less than five years old, and this is a sustainable result. today you saw the president of mali, who has been elected democratically and in a transparent procedure. justice is being done in that country. we know that there are a lot of challenges remaining and there is no full success guaranteed, but without support from the eu financial instruments we would not be at this point. there was a breakthrough in negotiations in bali on trade facilitation that could give one trillion dollars to the world economy. success was achieved because we have supported aid for trade, and that gave the nations courage really to agree on this deal. at the same time there are definitely a lot of challenges remaining: human rights violations, gender inequality, and also under-nutrition, including on a country level. we know that french soldiers are doing a fantastic job in the central african republic preventing massacres but we know that there is a limit to what you can prevent. you need to address the root causes and, again, without the eu financial instruments we would have no expectations of success in the central african republic. so i believe the package agreed today definitely makes the eu a responsible player in world politics, and not only responsible but an entity that can influence the process. there will be ups and downs but the agreement on these financial instruments really makes the world a better place to live in and it really shows belief in the world, as i have said today. so again, for all the rapporteurs, the work done was really good. i will also congratulate the lithuanian presidency. you may have got some criticism today but you really took the lead in obtaining an agreement from the council side.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would like to thank those who have participated in this debate for both their constructive and critical remarks. i consider that this afternoon’s debate has demonstrated the eu sending a clear signal to its partners of its commitment to an efficient and coherent external policy. many of you mentioned delegated acts and accountability. in this regard let me just mention that, since the beginning of the negotiations, the council expressed its readiness to look at where amending delegated acts could be appropriate and of added value. it would mean that they would be considered on an instrument-by-instrument basis and that there might be an instrument for which there would be no delegated act. however, having said that, let me also mention that actually we found agreement by which a number of delegated acts were introduced into the specific instruments. this agreement is complemented by the introduction of the mid-term review in order to revise, if appropriate, the content of the annexes subject to the delegated act. in addition, a strategic dialogue between the european parliament and the commission has been agreed in order to provide for political oversight of the parliament on the programming process, in accordance with article 14 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu. the strategic dialogue will be conducted by the commission represented at the appropriate level and it will take place prior to the programming phase and after the initial consultation of the relevant beneficiaries. after more than two years of negotiation, i feel that we can be proud of the outcome of our shared efforts. the external financial instrument package will offer a solid and efficient framework for the union’s external financial aid. once again, i would like to express my sincere thanks to you all for the excellent cooperation between our institutions.
the rapporteur, mrs schleicher, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i am thinking in particular of the case of mrs muñiz with regard to latin america, which i believe is a subject of great interest - especially in our case - and which we have been able to introduce, thanks to the amendments, into the association instrument. i would also like to remind mrs andrikienė that she, from the inta committee, helped us to prepare this report as quickly as possible. i think it was a job, as i said in my opening statement, of all of us. i think we have indeed done this house a service. by the way, commissioner, thank you for mentioning it: in this parliament, where it seems that only animal rights or sexual reproduction matters, fortunately someone is talking about children and someone is concerned about children. you mentioned it, so did my partner. i think that should have a little more priority and i am glad that it is one of the priorities in one of the instruments. i am a person who cares a great deal about these matters here in parliament and i am glad that they are finally being discussed. i also believe that we are contributing to the stabilisation and democratization of many countries around us and that this is good not only for them but also for us, for our society and so that in the next european elections, but not only in them but also in the next five years, this parliament can be a reference along with the good work that has been done. i would also like to express my gratitude to the council, despite the criticisms it has received. those of us who have been at the bottom of the canyon have to thank you for your cooperation. thank you for everything.
mr president, in this debate i would like to draw attention to the need to insist on the implementation of the international resolutions on western sahara. parliament has referred to them in several reports over the last few years, but no significant progress has been made so far. on the contrary, the un special rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment himself is denouncing serious human rights violations in an occupied territory where very clear international resolutions must be respected. that is why i have signed amendment no 23, which calls for respect for the fundamental rights of the people of western sahara, respect for their right to self-determination in accordance with united nations resolutions, the release of prisoners linked to this conflict and the opening of the occupied territory to independent observers, ngos and the media. we need an efficient international monitoring mechanism in the area.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, my thanks to all the members who have intervened in this debate, thank you for your views. i think we should be very proud of the role played by the eu in securing the very remarkable commitments made by world leaders to improve global tax governance. i think that now we need to demonstrate that we can continue to use the eu dimension to act as the eu with a single voice to pursue the consequences of these agreements that were reached, thanks to our support and to our initiatives. i therefore ask the members of this parliament and all the groups to give their strong support to our proposal which is based on mandatory automatic exchange of information without the condition of availability. i think we need to trust these mechanisms to improve the efficiency of our tax administrations for the exchange of information, and of course i think the interpretation should be based on the common framework and not on the different national laws. i hope parliament will support these views and we can have these new measures adopted as soon as possible.
rapporteur. − madam president, first of all i want to thank my shadow rapporteurs for all their good cooperation during these months, especially andreas schwab and antolín sanchez presedo. thank you very much for your kind cooperation. i would also like to particularly thank commissioner almunia and his team for our constructive work together. i very much welcome the fact that the 2012 european commission competition report celebrates and focuses on the eu single market and its 20th anniversary. i share this priority. in fact a lot remains to be done in several sectors, such as banks, telecommunications, energy, competition authorities and transport, in order to achieve a non-discriminatory well-functioning single market in europe. in this report i have tried to push for more transparency and cooperation between the parliament and dg competition and i also ask for more human resources for dg competition in order to do a better job. regarding the banking sector, there is a clear problem of concentration, in my opinion, in some member states. after receiving eur 1.6 trillion of state aid and public guarantees, the banking sector in europe is still not working properly. credit for smes in many parts of europe is scarce and expensive, delaying the return to economic growth in the near term. in spain, for example, credit to non-financial companies has fallen again by 11% during this year. there is a huge crowding-out effect. banks which are purchasers of public debt are expelling credit to the private sector. regarding the transport sector, we deplore the lack of competition in the european rail market and state aid to national incumbent airlines. the eu rail market is not functioning properly, due to incorrect or incomplete transposition of community law by member states. too often, incumbent railway operators are protected by their own member states. in this respect, i welcome the infringement procedures launched by the european commission in the last few years in several member states. regarding state aid to airlines, i understand dg competition is paying a lot of attention to regional airport subsidies to ryanair, but we should also make sure that the rules on state aid are applied correctly with regard to national carriers such as iberia, alitalia and others. rules should be the same for all actors and we should not accept the ‘too big to fail’ doctrine for airlines. european citizens should not be the ones who always end up paying. i also think the commission should investigate the 1 000 bilateral agreements in various member states in the air transport sector that restrict competition by imposing, for example, the requirement that any flight between two countries must stop in a given airport. in spain, for example, 23 bilateral treaties oblige planes to stop only at madrid airport. on the energy sector, this parliament is asking to fully investigate the demand effect. why is fuel so expensive on some days and so cheap on others? i believe it is not the consequence of market forces and my guess is that some sort of cartel is behind it. to solve all this, we need independent competition authorities and we need their reports to be completely non-political, otherwise we keep on supporting a system which, although theoretically in favour of competition, in practice protects the oligopolies. finally, on the google case, i have two questions for the commissioner regarding the procedure. does the commission believe that the adoption of google’s proposals as they stand will effectively address the commission’s concerns about fair competition and protect consumers? if not, will you finally send a statement of objections to google in order to impose truly significant remedies, once and for all? i call on the commission to take our report fully into account and to act in the coming months. thank you very much for your kind attention and i look forward to your comments and answers.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr ramon tremosa, on his excellent work and constructive spirit, and also to thank the other rapporteurs for the fact that we have reached a motion for a resolution with a high level of consensus in parliament. the socialist group will support it because it considers that it reflects the essence of its approaches. we wanted to emphasize the importance of transparency and cooperation in the development of competition policy. transparency leads us to call for the updating of statistics on state aid to financial institutions since the beginning of the crisis and to ask the european competition network to disseminate its work programmes and conclusions. and cooperation leads us to emphasize the role of the judicial authorities in the development of competition policy and cooperation, also, with the national regulatory authorities. we would also like to stress the importance of competition policy in overcoming the crisis, in implementing the europe 2020 strategy and in achieving the union's objectives. competition policy has helped to ensure a fair distribution of the restructuring of banks in difficulty. it must do the same for financial innovation, it must continue to perfect the internal market and it must help to meet the challenges of globalisation and change. for this reason, we will support it.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, first of all, since this may be the last time that an annual competition report is debated in this parliament's legislature, i would like to thank all of you - all the members of this house who have been involved in competition issues up to now and will continue to be so until the end of the legislature - for the excellent cooperation you have given us and the support you have given us in our task of applying the competition rules in the various areas, in the fight against cartels, abuse of a dominant position, merger control and state aid control. the other day, in the committee on economic affairs, in my last appearance, i gave you some figures on the total amounts of support for the banking system for its rescue and restructuring, and i promised you that i would send you some tables with the figures which we can consider definitive so far, because life goes on and there are still plans for the restructuring of banks which will be approved between now and the end of this parliament's term of office and there will be variations in the figures, but before the christmas holidays you will have that information at your disposal. i also ask you, in the spirit of cooperation which we have maintained throughout this period, to make every effort to ensure that parliament does not fall behind the council in the debate on the adoption of the proposal for a directive on claims for damages, as i said in my opening speech: the competitiveness council adopted the general approach last week and therefore, as far as possible, a rapid decision by this parliament will allow us to adopt that proposal for a directive at first reading before the end of the legislature. the working group on food - as i said - we have worked on and continue to work on. what is certain is that decisions on the application of the competition rules in this sector are basically taken by the national competition authorities because the scale of the problems along the food chain are the responsibility of the national authorities, but we have strengthened coordination, we have exchanged experience, we have analysed the respective strategies to combat any abuse that may occur in this sector which is so important, not only for the economy but for the citizens of all our countries, and what i can promise mrs mcguinness is that this will continue to be a priority in our work because we understand that this is a sector of enormous importance for the citizens and for the workers and economic operators in the agricultural sector in particular. in the field of the adoption of the guidelines for the strategy for modernising state aid control, we will also be launching the last public consultation on the new energy and environment guidelines in the coming days. the new guidelines will be adopted in spring and will enter into force, together with other guidelines in this state aid modernisation package, on 1 july 2014. we are also finalising the final discussions on the guidelines for the air transport sector and local and regional airports in particular. and those new guidelines will come into force early next year, which does not mean that our work in relation to the sector is over. once the guidelines are adopted there will be dozens of outstanding cases that we will have to resolve: alongside the state aid cases that fall within the scope of the airline and airport guidelines, we have a whole series of cases concerning the restructuring of very important airlines, in some cases basic to the countries in which they are located. what i can assure this parliament is that this sector is also part of our priority activity. we have many priorities, but few resources. i am grateful to mr tremosa for agreeing in his report to request more resources for the directorate-general for competition. it's true that we're not very active in publicly asking for more resources. we are working as hard as we can with the resources we have, but if you as the budgetary authority can give us something more, we would be very grateful because we need it.
the rapporteur. - madam president, thank you very much, commissioner. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues again for their cooperation and parliamentary support, because it seems to me that the three major groups in the house will have to work harder and better in the next parliamentary term if the polls are confirmed that there will be more eurosceptic and euro-phobic members in this house. i would urge you, commissioner, to make the directorate-general for competition more active in many more areas. you and i come from a country of catholic tradition and, if you remember, for example, i think it was the catechism that said that sins can be of thought, word, deed or omission. i believe that the sin of omission is as serious as, or more serious than, the other types of sin, because only a strong and very proactive directorate-general for competition in many areas can discourage behaviour that is contrary to free competition. finally, i am well aware that parliament must push for the transfer of human and material resources from less active directorates-general to more active ones, without necessarily altering the volume of the commission's resources. we now have a current of thought which calls for the european commission to be reduced. there was an article in the financial times by a dutch minister about it. one of the departments that needs to be strengthened is the directorate-general for competition. we need perhaps less european commission for the small issues but certainly more european commission for the big issues and that is where the important role of the directorate-general for competition comes in. and finally, i also thank you for having the members and the european parliament. we're organizing a seminar with andreas schwab on the google case. you were kind enough to come. he could have made his statements to the european commission. it gave parliament a leading role. i am grateful to you, because we also need to work with the commission. so, thank you very much.
mr president, at the beginning of his speech, mr swoboda made a mockery of the comparative growth and employment figures between the united states and the european union. sad irony, because there they are robust, they are positive, and here they are either negative or stunted. in fact, there are more than ten countries in the european union that have unemployment rates so high that they will not be able to bring them down below ten percent for a couple of decades. this shows that in 2008 and in 2012 there have been, and there will be next year, better policies on another continent, not in the european union. it shows that the policy of austerity alone has not produced the positive results that other policies are producing elsewhere. but it's not just about politics. it is also about decision-making processes. there, decisions are made overnight when a quick political agreement is reached. it is true that the united states has also experienced the so-called "shutdown", that is, it has been paralysed for a good number of months. but let us return to the european union. the banking resolution mechanism is still being discussed today and we do not know whether agreement will be reached at the next council. but the data shows that the single resolution fund won't come until a decade from now or until 2026. with that timetable, it is difficult to tackle a banking union that is really understandable to the rest of the world economies. so we need to change policies and we need to change the way we make decisions on those policies.
mr president, the great efforts and sacrifices to ensure the sustainability of our public accounts and the structural reforms undertaken over the last two years are bearing fruit. however, the recovery from the crisis is still extremely fragile and challenges and concerns persist. in our view, at least five things are needed to get out of the crisis: differentiated fiscal consolidation, more flexible and growth-friendly; structural reforms to make us competitive and enable us to grow and create jobs; further progress in european integration and further reforms at european level - in this sense it is vital to make rapid progress in the banking union and in the development of the internal market and in this respect it must be said, contrary to some of the things that have been said here, that we think the preliminary agreements are absolutely hopeful; a decisive approach to the employment situation, especially for young people, and that the funds for the youth guarantee are now available; and solving the credit and liquidity problems affecting small and mediumsized enterprises. the european council must reach an agreement which is fundamental to consolidating the recovery from the crisis, namely the banking union. it is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to reach agreement on a single resolution fund and a single authority, which could be the council or the commission. i am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that the european council is going to have an in-depth debate on the future of european security and defence policy. the union will not have a complete foreign policy until it has fully developed operational capabilities in defence. strong, generous leadership is needed from member states to be able to pool our capacities in favour of shared and viable objectives, thus avoiding duplication and shortcomings. the complementarity of the union's civil and military actions must also be improved, in order to increase its capacity to react, its efficiency, effectiveness and visibility, thus giving the european union credibility as a provider of regional and global security and stability.
mr president, a european council is always a political meeting at the highest level and the debate within it must be as well. we have talked about the reflection that will be concentrated on the common security and defence policy in order to increase the effectiveness, the defence capacity, the strengthening of the industrial sector and the strengthening of the european defence agency. but it's worrying that the reason is economic. the cuts, the budget cuts, which force the member states to optimise their defence efforts, because the reason should be political: the belief in a shared project. and the same is true of the progress that has been awaited for too long in the banking union. the european supervisory mechanism and the deposit guarantee are not enough. the commission's powers in the management of this new banking union system must be strengthened, but so must the democratic control which this parliament must exercise. i say this because the european elections are very close at hand and it is impossible to lose sight of them for a second. the year 2014 will see a real choice between europeans and growth - as many surveys already indicate - and anti-european or outright anti-european attitudes. it must therefore be very clear that the forthcoming european elections represent a last chance to relaunch the european project, which means that we have to review the economic policy that has forced these cuts, the economic policy that has led the european union to the worst hour in its history, and to boost growth, the social agenda and job creation all at once. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i guess so. the answer is yes. but the answer also requires that we say clearly that it is not possible to do more with less, that it is not true that by cutting from all sides and also, consequently, by forcing member states to cut the social state, welfare and social rights, including the right to health and access to quality public health in the member states, can be better protected. and this applies, of course, also to the efforts being made to bring about closer relations in the field of european security and defence policy, because they are driven by an economic logic. the cuts require that defence capabilities be pooled, but the inspiration should not be that, but the belief in a common and shared european project.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. i will just try to react very briefly to the topics which have been most frequently raised by members: the situation in ukraine, defence, contractual arrangements and the single resolution mechanism. first i would like to thank you all for your very clear statement on ukraine. i think it is very important to show that we are with the ukrainian people. we support their right to the european path and i would like to thank you for your very clear demonstration of solidarity. i agree with parliamentary group leaders who highlighted the fact that the pictures from kiev from the maidan square remind us all of the importance of the freedoms and values we have got so used to in the european union that we just take them for granted. but as we have already seen this morning, it is very important to defend them. sometimes it is very strange that we have to defend them here in the european parliament, but this is, i would say, the ongoing battle against those who want to limit the freedom of movement, freedom of labour – the key features of the european union because they make our union so great. they are freedoms which are extremely appreciated by our citizens and i think it is our clear duty to work on this together and to fight for this freedom both, in the commission and in the european parliament. on defence, i think it is very important to recall to some members that the common security and defence policy development is already provided for in the lisbon treaty, and it is quite clear that we need progress here to be able to deploy european union security and civilian missions. we already have dozens of them abroad and the further development of our capabilities would help us to assume even better our global responsibility, which is of course something that is expected of the european union. we need better coordination to tackle new threats like cyber-security, like the trafficking of human beings. we need it for economies of scale and of course to avoid duplication. several of the speakers also highlighted the very important economic impact of the defence industry on the european economy, and therefore i think it is really up to the european union to invest effort and energy in the development of better cooperation and coordination in this area. in my opening remarks i think i made it very clear that the european union wants to proceed in close cooperation with nato and with other international partners like the un and osce. but if everything is as great as was suggested by some of the speakers, in that case why do we still have problems with duplication in aircraft, in ships, in frigates, in different kinds of armament? why do we still have very closed procurement procedures? why do we have fragmented markets in defence products? i think that we have to tackle all these issues to benefit from economies of scale and from pooling resources to really produce better products and really to pool resources which are very scarce. so i think this topic at the european council deserves a lot of attention and i hope that we will really achieve tangible and much needed progress. on contractual arrangements, i think that here we need to continue the debate on this issue, because i think the commission’s approach to the contractual arrangement was not fully understood and we should engage with the european parliament to explain it more in the future. because i think we have all agreed, and i have seen it in very big support from the european parliament for six-pack and two-pack measures, that what we need is to improve economic governance. we have seen how the european semester has been evolving and how we are trying to improve it every year. with these contractual arrangements, we want to add the element of motivation, the element of financial support for reforms which are sometimes very difficult, which are costly, which of course are not easy to implement. of course we want to respect fully the democratic scrutiny rights of the european parliament and of the national parliaments, because the proposals for these contractual arrangements should come from the member states themselves. they should propose what they want to do, if they want to come into the reform, and of course we need to look for the ways we can help finance these reforms in the future. of course these arrangements would have to fully respect all new elements we have added to the social dimension of the emu, and convergence is one of the key factors in economic governance and in application of the european semester. lastly, on the banking union, i think that here we are at an absolutely crucial stage. there will be two trialogues today on the deposit scheme guarantees and on the bank resolution and recovery directive, and of course we hope for progress because we really believe that we need to complete these two very important negotiations before the parliamentary recess so that we can really start the new legislature with the banking union already in place. as some of you already mentioned, the discussion on the single resolution mechanism is very difficult. as you know, the commission is advocating article 114 as the right legal basis for all issues including the fund, but the negotiations are very difficult and, as you know, the negotiations between the finance ministers in the ecofin formation will continue next week and we will work very hard for the final compromise and for the important role of the european parliament in this process. but at the same time i think we also have to acknowledge that this is a process of putting the system together which would take years, and now i think we have to overcome this very important hurdle. we have to trigger the mechanism, we have to start it, because this would be a very important signal to the financial markets, it would be a very important signal to our businesses, to our citizens that we have finally closed all the gaps and we have got our banking system under proper control and on safe ground. this, i hope, will help us to restart financing the economy, which is one of the key problems that explains why our growth is not picking up in a more robust way, which of course all of us would very much prefer.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful to all those who have participated in this debate. i have heard a range of views expressed, and i will of course ensure that these are relayed back to the council, and to the european council and its president. many of you mentioned ukraine and i am very grateful for this. as minister linkevičius said very early this morning, last night the ukrainian authorities demonstrated that they seem to be taking a non-european path. the oppressive police action shows a clear disrespect for freedom of speech and freedom of assembly. these are at the core of our european values. we are all the more grateful to the high representative that she is seeking a political solution with a direct engagement in kiev. as president barroso stated recently, in these difficult hours we cannot leave the ukrainian people on their own. i would like to thank this house for its support and welcome the fact that a resolution on this matter is be put to the vote tomorrow. finally, on ukraine, as i said during yesterday’s debate, it is also very important simply to be there, with them, showing that they have not been left alone. some meps, notably mr swoboda and ms berès, made particular mention of a social dimension. of course it is clear that growth alone cannot remedy the social situation in the eu, because growth needs to be rich in jobs. hence the member states are ready to address the challenges exposed by the crisis, through increased efforts to better balance economic and social objectives. there is broad agreement that the social dimension of the emu has to be strengthened. a properly functioning emu needs the member states to work together to address, in a balanced and coordinated way, economic, employment and social imbalances which have implications for monetary union as a whole. a strong social dimension would ensure that priority is given to policies to lead the eu towards full employment. the social dimension should therefore be built around a renewed effort to deliver the relevant employment, education and social inclusion targets of europe 2020. most member states are in favour of the introduction of a scoreboard of key employment and social indicators within the framework of the european semester and consider it a useful instrument. such a scoreboard could provide a more focused analysis for reinforced multilateral surveillance of employment and social policies. member states also support the proposals to improve the mechanisms for involving social partners in the coordination of policies at eu and national levels. the commissioner mentioned the savings directive. it is true that ecofin did not reach a political agreement yesterday. i would like to stress that the lithuanian presidency has been doing everything possible for a savings directive to be adopted before the end of the year, as requested by the european council. the file was on the agenda of ecofin in november and december this year, but it has not been possible to reach agreement at this stage, due to reservations on the part of a couple of our member states. but the report, which will be forwarded to the european council, will present the outcome of the ecofin discussion. it will then be for the european council to decide what kind of signal it wishes to send to the council on the follow-up to be given to this file. mr van orden and ms gomes made some concrete points on european defence. let me say that this week’s european council will be about achieving concrete deliverables. in the area of defence i could name just a few, such as the call to adopt the eu cyber defence policy framework in 2014 and to adopt a maritime security strategy in the same year. to enhance the development of capabilities, the european council will encourage further development of remotely piloted aircraft systems in the 2020-2025 framework and more development of air-to-air refuelling capacity, the creation of a next-generation governmental satellite communication and the development of a road map, as well as projects to improve civil and military cooperation on the basis of the eu cyber-security strategy. some of you also mentioned the eu-nato relationship. let me stress that nato is a key partner organisation for the eu and the european council is expected to underline this. in its conclusions on csdp the council encouraged further implementation of practical steps for effective eu cooperation with nato, while keeping the overall objectives of building a true organisation-to-organisation relationship. this also includes avoiding duplication and ensuring complementarity. next week’s meeting covers a range of different issues, but they are all of direct concern to our citizens. common security and defence is about protecting our families and homes, and helping to ensure that we provide for a more stable and secure neighbourhood and world. our continuing effort to strengthen economic and monetary union is about a different sort of security: security from economic uncertainty and security from the fear of long-term unemployment. banking union is also in the end about protecting our livelihoods from the threat of yet another financial crisis. we all depend on the strength and solidity of the banks whom we trust with our hard-won savings. finally, tackling migration in the mediterranean is concerned with protecting those who risk great danger in the search for a better life. we owe it to them to ensure that the disaster we witnessed in october is never again repeated. as we look forward to the european parliamentary elections next year, we can point to these and many other issues where europe is indeed making a difference, and where results depend ultimately on cooperation and solidarity.
four motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 december 2013. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes an increase in the control systems for counterfeiting and fraud on the euro currency. the report approves a proposal which, although containing a number of measures which will make it possible to achieve a significant improvement in the control of counterfeiting and fraud, suffers from the serious problem of a shortage of resources. the report proposes just over €7 million for the programme, which, taking into account the 28 member states of the union, means very little resources to perform a monitoring function at european level. however, the programme proposals can be a great improvement in facilitating control in collaboration with the member states' authorities. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. counterfeiting of the euro is, of course, a serious criminal matter and its relationship with organised crime should be taken into account when assessing the economic and social implications of counterfeiting on citizens’ lives. large-scale counterfeiting has potentially damaging consequences for the european economy and the stability of the currency itself. however, the euro is not a heavily forged currency. this is largely due to its design and also to structures at national and union level which monitor and combat counterfeiting. the pericles programme has, to date, played an important part in this process. this well established programme has performed a significant function by disseminating best practice in combating counterfeiting and thereby contributed to the safeguarding of the financial interests of the union. the commission proposal however, has left some areas too vaguely defined and this report therefore seeks to build on the proposal by targeting the programme to maximise the use of the funds allocated to it.
in writing. − domestic workers, mostly women and immigrants, suffer from invisibility, which can lead to degrading working conditions with low pay and long working hours. this convention ensures that the most vulnerable, immigrant women, can benefit from standard working conditions. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the council's proposal to ratify ilo convention 189 on domestic workers. this ilo convention represents an improvement in the consideration of the labour rights of domestic workers, who are often in a situation of total unprotectedness, alone in their work environments at the mercy of their employers. the introduction of this convention is intended to encourage member states to introduce legislation and take action to guarantee the rights of the estimated 2.6 million domestic workers in europe. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it seeks to improve and guarantee the rights of domestic workers.
in writing. − in favour. according to eurostat data, there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the eu, of whom 89% are women and half are migrants. domestic work is one of the most unprotected and invisible forms of work, bearing in mind its isolated and individual nature. it is therefore often very difficult for domestic workers to obtain information about their rights or to organise themselves in representative associations or unions which can enable them to more securely defend their labour and social rights. in a number of eu countries, domestic workers are frequently employed in precarious conditions, without a contract, their wages are paid late, they are required to work extra hours without due payment, their rights to leave and rest periods and paid public holidays are ignored and their social security contributions go unpaid. ilo convention 189 introduces the requirement to protect domestic workers, who often, as women and migrants, find themselves in extremely vulnerable situations, becoming victims of discrimination and many forms of abuse involving severe violations of their human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows armenia to participate in european union programmes. the report calls for armenia's participation in eu programmes involving collaboration in the fields of education, environment, culture, etc., to be strengthened to enable people-to-people cooperation with the eu. this is not a matter of putting economic and commercial interests ahead of others, but of strengthening cooperation between european countries and armenia at political and civil level. this is a type of international collaboration that strengthens cultural ties between peoples and is a key strategy for mutual knowledge. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of armenia and the european communities entered into force on 1 july 1999. armenia has participated actively in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. the intention to further facilitate partner countries’ participation in union programmes was stressed in the joint communication by the commission and the high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy on ‘a new response to a challenging neighbourhood’. the declaration of warsaw summit of the eastern partnership that took place on 29-30 september 2011, highlights once more the interest of the partner countries and the eu in facilitating the participation of the partners in union programmes and agencies and welcomes the increased sectoral cooperation. the conclusion of the protocol will permit the gradual opening of or reinforced participation in certain union programmes for armenia, offering an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, enhancing people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, in addition to the strengthening of the political and relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because it is a technical report which seeks to adapt the tax regime of saint barthélemy to its new status as an overseas territory. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the report has not caused any problems for any of the member states of the union and the negotiations have been conducted through the european commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to provide a response to the economic crisis which is striking the canary islands hard. the financial crisis has caused a very significant loss of jobs in the canary islands and this report seeks to extend for two years the special tax regime of these islands to combat unemployment. the tax system of the canary islands for the production of certain local goods contains a number of tax exemptions to alleviate their special situation. this tax regime for the islands, contained in the decision, would expire next year, at one of the worst moments of the economic crisis, causing a disaster in the productive fabric of the islands. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. as the new regional aid guidelines for the period 2014-2020 as adopted by the commission in 2013 will enter into force on 1 july 2014, the commission considers it is justified to extend the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec, as amended by decision 895/2011/eu, for six months, so that its expiry date coincides with the date of entry into force of the guidelines, proposing that decision to be amended accordingly. given that the intention of this measure is to continue stimulating economic activity and stabilising employment in this outermost region, and that the extension is proposed for a limited period of time, the chair proposes that this proposal be adopted without amendment, in accordance with rule 46 of the rules of procedure as was already the case in the framework of the legislative procedure that led to the approval by parliament of the commission proposal for the above-mentioned council decision 895/2011 of 19 december 2011.
in writing. − more efficient coordination of eu donors in relation to development aid is desirable. the cost of ineffective or inadequate coordination has been estimated in large terms and, if improved, could save up to eur 800 million. following up on the paris declaration and the accra action programme, a level of effective coordination can be achieved which can make a concrete contribution to the states concerned.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because, although it introduces the need to coordinate the resources donated with the needs of cooperation, it does so with its reference to the importance of free trade for development. i think that a system of coordination between donors and cooperation projects is necessary so that donors can support those projects which are most important and not just those of which they have immediate knowledge. however, the origin of economic "underdevelopment" lies in free trade driven by the expansion of empires in the modern age, and to say otherwise is to miss the truth and seek the benefit of the multinationals that can control such trade. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. recent estimations set out in the ‘cost of non-europe report’ show that as much as eur 800 million could be saved annually from cutting transaction costs if the eu and its member states concentrated their aid efforts on fewer countries and activities. a further eur 8.4 billion of annual savings could be achieved if country allocation was completely coordinated and had poverty reduction as its only target. in a context where, overall, there has been limited progress towards reaching the un goal of providing 0.7% of gross national income as official development assistance by 2015, more efficient coordination at eu level is a matter of the utmost importance.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it proposes a person to fill a position at the european court of auditors who lacks the slightest professional experience in the field of audit. this appointment of a person with no professional experience in the field calls into question his relevance and professionalism as a member of the tribunal, as well as the guarantee of its independence from european political forces. it is essential for the european court of auditors to have members who are qualified for the work of such an important body in order to guarantee its independence. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a person to fill a position in the european court of auditors who, although lacking specific experience in the field of audit, has enjoyed consensus in the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament. the political consensus of the groups in parliament around this figure ensures that they will not block the functioning of an institution so necessary for the control of public expenditure in europe. with these guarantees i have decided to vote in favour of this report despite the lack of experience of the proposed member.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a person to fill a position at the european court of auditors who has a substantial professional experience in the field of audit. the appointment of a person with a professional career in the field allows confidence in his relevance and professionalism as a member of the tribunal, guaranteeing the independence of the tribunal. it is essential for the european court of auditors to have members who are qualified for the work of such an important body in order to guarantee its independence. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because it is part of a neighbourhood strategy aimed at imposing the economic objectives of the european union. the eu's policy towards neighbouring countries should be a strategy of cooperation in the field of fundamental rights and citizenship, with the aim of increasing political ties between peoples. this report includes references to the need for such a policy to be based on the principles of the united nations charter and international law. however, it is still part of the eu's economic strategy, objectives and interests, which is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the common set of rules and procedures should be consistent with the financial rules applicable to the annual budget of the union laid down in a regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 of the european parliament and of the council (‘the financial regulation’), such reference being made in all instances to the latest version of that regulation in force, and including the corresponding rules adopted by the commission for implementing the financial regulation.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it seeks to impose a certain type of policy on the countries neighbouring the european union, and it is a clear interference with the sovereignty of third countries. the eu is trying to globalize the economy without globalizing rights. we are against the deregulation of the economy and the financial sector and against privatisation. this report deals in particular with an instrument for stability and peace in these countries, regulating possible military interventions that may occur. it is unacceptable to try to impose these principles on the eu's neighbourhood policy: what we do not want for the eu member states themselves, for the people of europe, we cannot want for other peoples. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − in favour. preserving peace, preventing conflicts, strengthening international security and assisting populations, countries and regions confronting natural or man-made disasters are among the prime objectives of the union's external action as set out in, inter alia, article 21 of the treaty on european union (teu). crises and conflicts affecting countries and regions, and other factors such as terrorism, organised crime, gender-based violence, climate change, cyber security challenges and security threats emanating from natural disasters pose a risk to stability and security. in order to address these issues in an effective and timely manner, specific financial resources and financing instruments are required that can work in a manner complementary to humanitarian aid and long-term cooperation instruments.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains numerous criticisms of the human rights situation in many countries, it is pure propaganda for the external action and military interventions of the member states of the european union. our group is fundamentally committed to human rights, but this report seeks to legitimize the eu's foreign policy and to propose an interventionist approach based on the superiority of europe. the report is marked with gaps in all the countries where the union must cover its shame, such as palestine, western sahara, the usa, etc. finally, the situation of human rights within the union is praised without comparison, as is the poor application of the 'human rights clause' in agreements with third countries. for all these reasons and because of my commitment to real human rights, i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. since it was launched, the european neighbourhood policy has strengthened relations with partner countries and brought tangible benefits to both the union and its partners, including the launch of regional initiatives and support to democratisation in the region. a number of major developments in the european neighbourhood have triggered a revised vision of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) set out in 2011 as a result of a comprehensive strategic review. it provides inter alia for greater support to partners committed to building democratic societies and undertaking reforms in line with the ‘more for more’ and ‘mutual accountability’ principles, partnership with societies and a more differentiated and tailor-made approach towards the individual partner countries. this regulation establishes clear links between the european neighbourhood policy framework and the support to be provided under the instrument established by this regulation.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a clear interference with the sovereignty of third countries. the eu is trying to globalize the economy without globalizing rights. we are against the deregulation of the economy and the financial sector and against privatisation. this report is specifically about an instrument for imposing the eu's economic objectives. the report includes the recognition of kosovo, a territory occupied by nato which spain does not recognise. it is unacceptable to try to impose these principles on the eu's neighbourhood policy: what we do not want for the eu member states themselves, for the people of europe, we cannot want for other peoples. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − in favour. article 49 of the treaty on european union provides that any european state which endorses the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, may apply to become a member of the union. a european state which has applied to join the union can become a member only when it has been confirmed that it meets the membership criteria agreed at the copenhagen european council in june 1993 and provided that the accession does not overstretch the capacity of the union to integrate the new member. these criteria relate to the stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities, the existence of a functioning market economy as well as the capacity to cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the union, and the ability to assume not only the rights but also the obligations under the treaties, including adherence to the aims of political, economic and monetary union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves cooperation in relation to what neighbourhood really means. this report seeks to promote political, people-to-people and civil society cooperation between eu member states and neighbouring third countries. it does not seek to base the neighbourhood on the economic interests of the companies of the two parties, but seeks to build a neighbourhood and closeness on the basis of the political will of the peoples, not the interests of their companies. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the union shall seek to develop relations and build partnerships with third countries. this regulation constitutes a new and complementary instrument providing direct support for the european union’s external policies, expanding cooperation partnerships and policy dialogues to areas and subjects beyond development cooperation. it follows on from the experience gained with industrialised countries and high-income countries and territories under council regulation no 1934/2006. the scope of cooperation under the geographic programmes with developing countries, territories and regions established under the development cooperation instrument is almost entirely limited to financing measures designed to fulfil the criteria set for official development assistance (oda) set by the development assistance committee of the organisation for economic cooperation and development (dac/oecd).
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it envisages the creation of an instrument for the worldwide promotion of human rights, it does so by making these rights conditional on economic growth. these references to economic growth will be used to justify undemocratic regimes when they involve an economic benefit for european union companies and will be used when there are states that oppose the interests of these companies. it is essential to create an instrument for the promotion of human rights worldwide, which does not include the defence of the political interests of the eu. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. within the framework of the principles and objectives of the union’s external action the promotion of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and good governance and of inclusive and sustainable growth are two basic pillars of the eu’s development policy. a commitment to respect, promote and protect human rights and democratic principles is an essential element of the eu’s contractual relations with third countries.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although we consider it essential to create an instrument to finance a strong policy of cooperation between the european union and its neighbouring countries, this should not be done, as is being done, at the expense of the disappearance of cooperation in other parts of the world. it is essential to create such a tool for human development cooperation between the eu and its neighbours, so that a genuine will to cooperate with the neighbourhood is expressed. however, this fund is being set up because the traditional funds for eu cooperation are disappearing, and i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the european consensus, which is a joint declaration by the council and the representatives of the governments of the member states meeting within the council, the european parliament and the commission on the development policy of the european union, and agreed modifications thereto, provides the general policy framework, the orientations and the focus to guide the implementation of this regulation.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although the european globalisation adjustment fund has proved to be a key tool in mitigating the effects of the many factory closures across europe, the report calls on the member states to implement their economic policies for growth. in the case of spain, this statement is doubly cynical because, as a result of the labour reform carried out in accordance with the economic policy recommendations, the incidence of employment regulation cases in spanish factories has multiplied. because the spanish government has followed the recommendations to the letter, we are in this very serious situation. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the egf was established to provide the eu with an instrument to demonstrate solidarity with, and give support to, workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation. it was subsequently extended to include workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. in this context it is very regrettable that the ‘crisis derogation’ was not renewed due to a blocking minority in council, despite strong support for its continuation from the commission and the european parliament. during the period 2009-2010, 82% of applications to the egf were based on the ‘crisis derogation’ criteria, and in that same period 10% of redundant workers in the eu accessed the fund. therefore, the commission's proposal to include an unexpected crisis within the scope of the regulation is to be welcomed as it allows the fund to respond to the real needs of redundant workers.
in writing. − today, the plenary approved the extension of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2014-2020, a flexibility instrument, separate from the multiannual financial framework, which supports workers made redundant to reintegrate them into the labour market. initially, this instrument, co-financed with the member states, envisaged as potential beneficiaries those workers made redundant as a result of changes in the pattern of global trade, such as the relocation of firms. but from may 2009 to december 2011, the fund also helped the unemployed because of the crisis. spain, in these six years of the programme, has been the country with the most aid requests, with a total of 19 and 13,696 beneficiary workers. i therefore welcome the increase in the budget allocation for this special fund, the maintenance of extended eligibility and the increase in european union co-financing from 50 to 60 per cent as it will help groups of workers who are collectively unemployed in a short period of time.
in writing. - tax fraud is one of the scourges of our society and seems to be on the increase, so the establishment of effective tools to combat it is a priority. this is a good proposal in principle, but the adoption of an amendment on the discretion of the member states and the possible introduction of exceptions opens the door to a light implementation of the tool. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a proposal to try to increase safety in the transport of radioactive materials at community level. the nuclear energy sector carries numerous risks which add extra costs to the exploitation of this type of energy and one of them is the transport of radioactive materials. this type of material exposes a large part of the european population to serious risks and it is therefore essential that there be regulation in this area to try to prevent disasters. nuclear energy is a very serious risk in itself and that is why we are against its use, but it is necessary to regulate transport safety by means of a register which guarantees compliance with the most basic safety measures in transport, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − abstention. with its proposal of 12 june 2013, the commission proposed to extend the automatic exchange of information (aeoi) between eu tax administrations as part of the intensified fight against tax evasion. under this proposal, dividends, capital gains, all other forms of financial income and account balances, will be added to the list of categories which are subject to aeoi within the eu. this would pave the way for the eu to have the most comprehensive system of aeoi in the world. this proposal, together with the eu savings tax directive and the already existing administrative cooperation directive, which this proposal aims to amend, will mean that member states share as much information amongst themselves as they have committed to doing with the usa under the foreign account tax compliance act (fatca). the proposal is far short of data protection mechanisms.
in writing. - in order to combat tax fraud, which has increased in recent years, parliament adopted this report, which aims to collect and share automatically information between member states on salaries, pensions, life insurance or any other source of income. i believe that in the present situation such measures will help to prevent evasive practices and will help to bring transparency to the system.
in writing. − against. the greens/efa requested that: the ‘polluter pays’ principle should apply in the event of an accident happening during the transportation of radioactive materials; radioactive materials must not be carried in the same convoy transporting explosives; special requirements must be implemented for convoys transporting spent fuel, fissile materials and highly-radioactive material in order to protect the environment and the people and to prevent theft and terrorist attacks; a member state where non-compliance with this regulation is discovered should suspend immediately any transport of radioactive materials by the carrier concerned; the public should be made aware in advance of such radioactive convoys in their neighbourhood. some of the above requests were carried by the plenary, but it was still too far away from what we would have liked to see.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows the implementation of numerous regional policy projects in member states with economic difficulties. the report proposes to relax the conditions for the implementation of eu-funded projects in these member states. in particular, they provide for the possibility of increasing the cofinancing rates and extending the release periods. these two measures should help the states concerned to meet their obligations and implement projects which form part of cohesion policy. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. human rights are at the centre of the eu’s relations with all third countries, including its strategic partners. the euʼs human rights policy needs to be consistent in complying with the treaty obligations, ensuring coherence between internal and external policies and avoiding double standards in external policies. we ask for the adoption of eu foreign affairs council conclusions on human rights and strategic partners that would establish a common threshold for member states and for eu officials in terms of the human rights concerns that they have to raise, as a minimum, with their strategic partner counterparts.
in writing. − i voted in favour and support this year human rights report as this is one of the most important functions, namely to perform an oversight function in respect of the council’s and the commission’s performance on human rights policy. this strengthens the european union’s role as the guardian of human rights worldwide. the european parliament should continue to be involved in the european union’s human rights dialogues; this house should monitor and continue to raise issues linked to violations and persecutions of minorities worldwide from tibetans and uighurs in china to montagnards in vietnam to the sam rainsy party in cambodia! the eu should increase in its efforts to support non-violent opposition in all authoritarian regimes and stop the status quo and business-as-usual policy with regard to countries which reiterate and continue to abuse human rights!
in writing. - i voted against this because, despite pointing out the importance of concentrating reproduction in a few hands, it assumes the bailouts of the financial sector as a key political action for economic recovery in europe. i am not prepared to share the contents of this report, given that it is based on this fallacy, that european public resources are being mortgaged to rescue a banking sector which only speculates and cannot bring the productive sector out of the crisis. the fight against monopoly practices in the european market is essential because of the danger of free markets in the presence of large companies. but in approving the bank bailouts this report contradicts itself. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. − in favour. today, 20 years after the single market was born, many consumers are still gravely affected by anti-competitive practices in many economic sectors. sometimes, these practices have their roots in the private sector, as it is the case for cartels, but it is widely common that the public sector also tends to be against the opening up of competition in many important economic sectors such as rail, airports, telecommunications or electricity. moreover, all too often, the public sector does not provide fully independent regulators which can ensure that markets continue to function properly, in a fair and non-discriminatory way. the same situation happens with competition authorities. another matter of great importance are the rules and practices regarding state aid. state aid to banks in particular has for long been controversial in some political circles. it is understandable, when at the same time that in many parts of europe social services have to be cut in order to regain fiscal sustainability, banks receive billions in public money. we should make sure that banks are fully accountable regarding the way they use this public money.
in writing. − i welcome greatly the fact that the 2012 commission competition report celebrates and focuses on the eu single market and its 20th anniversary. i share this priority. in fact, a lot remains to be done in several sectors, such as banks, telecommunications, energy, competition authorities and transport, to achieve a non-discriminatory, well-functioning single market in europe. in this report, i have tried to push for more transparency and collaboration between parliament and the directorate-general (dg) for competition. this dg also needs more human resources to do its job. regarding the banking sector, there is a clear problem of concentration in some member states. despite receiving eur 1.6 trillion in state aid and public guarantees, the banking sector in europe is still not working properly. credit to smes in many parts of europe is scarce and expensive, delaying the return to economic growth in the near term. in spain, for example, credit to non-financial companies has fallen by 11 % in 2013. there is a huge ʻcrowding out effectʼ: the banksʼ purchase of public debt is expelling credit to the private sector. regarding the transport sector, we denounce the lack of competition in the european rail market and state aid to national airlines.
in writing. - as the report points out, the withdrawal of the milk quota under the cap will have a negative impact on milk production in mountain areas, especially for small-scale family farms. in my region, cantabria, 79% of farms are less than 20 hectares and thousands of families depend on them for their livelihood. the milk production in cantabria is already sufficiently punished by the mismanagement of the regional government, which has made our milk the worst paid in spain and europe, causing losses of more than 16 million euros to the sector. i therefore ask the commission, when the new cap comes into force, to monitor closely the situation of these farms and to put in place measures to ensure their viability, as we intend to do with the reform. i also ask that a coherent rural development and dairy programme be drawn up to add value to this milk production in small farms and mountain areas.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it proposes a number of positive measures for livestock farming in lessfavoured areas, it is a preparation for the sector in view of the end of the milk quota system. i share the concern about livestock farming in lessfavoured areas, and i consider that it is a fundamental activity which needs support in order to maintain the population and economic activity in these areas. the quota system in the milk sector is a key mechanism to control market failures and to ensure that an activity which is essential for the countryside and the rural population can be maintained. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. europe’s dairy sector will experience a major shift after expiry of the quotas in 2015. for the first time in 31 years the sector will be without milk quotas. this substantial change is likely to cause market disruptions to the dairy sector, especially in the less favoured areas and the outermost regions. for these areas, milk production is often the only source of income and the local community depends heavily on the dairy sector. in order to secure a stable future for the sector and to avoid the depopulation of rural areas along with negative economic and environmental consequences, further steps at european level are required.
in writing. − in favour. in october 2012, the commission published the communication ‘the eu approach to resilience: learning from food security crises’, which is intended to guide the eu’s approach to building resilience and reducing vulnerability in developing countries, particularly those which are crisis-prone. the communication states that ‘enhancing resilience calls for a long-term approach, based on alleviating the underlying causes to crises, and enhancing capacities to better manage future uncertainty and change’. this communication has been followed up by the commission’s staff working document ‘action plan for resilience in crisis prone countries 2013-2020’. disaster risk reduction (drr) is an essential component of resilience. drr involves analysing and managing hazards to reduce vulnerability to disasters and thereby building resilience. it covers activities which support preparedness, prevention and mitigation from a local to international level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the institutions of the various member states to develop public policies to enable the inclusion of disabled women who suffer from double discrimination. this report contains a number of amendments proposed by our group on the harmful effects of the austerity policies being implemented in the member states in accordance with the recommendations of the european commission. a strategy for the inclusion and protection of this group requires the state to maintain public policies that allow people to be included so that they can exercise their rights on an equal footing. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. women with disabilities are not only persons who are not capable of doing particular things, but most of all they are women, most of all they are human beings. when talking about them, we have to keep in mind that we are talking about citizens, female citizens, and they cannot be defined by their disabilities, in fact, they do not want to. every day, they face the same challenges and opportunities as other women; they are friends, daughters, mothers, wives and employees. they have various roles to endorse, as every woman does. they are talented in multitudinous ways, skilled and enrich our society, which gains depth in diversity. it is crucial to consider this positive contribution, appreciate and promote it, and ensure that these women’s life plans are equally heard, equally get the chance of accomplishment, just as those of women without disabilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a commitment to small businesses in the face of the expansion of large supermarkets in many of the member states of the european union. the report calls for no further increases in consumption taxes, such as vat, to encourage small business, an activity which generates a large number of jobs. the report also includes concepts such as the social utility of small business, the protection of small businesses and independent shops as a central pillar of retail trade on the continent. the report also addresses the need to regulate franchising and other retail realities. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. retail is of major economic importance, accounting for 11% of the eu’s gdp and 15% of eu employment. in the eu, much emphasis has been placed on retail as one of the main pillars of the single market. the economies of scale possible within a well-functioning internal market can make all the difference for larger retailers. it is therefore regrettable that many retailers which want to be active in several or all member states still face unnecessary obstacles, such as different packaging and labelling requirements, as well as differences in administrative practices. the digital single market can offer additional opportunities for retailers, although at the moment consumers still largely prefer suppliers based in their own country, even for online purchases. this may have to do with the fact that consumers are simply not as familiar with retailers based in other member states, but also with uncertainty about their rights.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr roberto gualtieri and mr rafał trzaskowski, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the constitutional problems of multi-level governance in the european union (2012/2078 (ini)) (a7-0372/2013).
györgy schöpflin is indeed acting as deputy rapporteur, following the departure of rafal trzaskowski, who has now joined the polish government and to whom we convey our congratulations and our best wishes for success.
mr president, commissioner, we are entering an election year, and the discussion of this reasoned report is therefore very timely. we europeans with ambition want to see a convention and a reform of the treaties, which we consider to be inevitable, in the long term. but right now, we're not on that horizon. we are trying to exploit the possibilities offered by the existing treaties to make the european institutions more efficient, to serve our citizens better and to make our management more transparent. we must make every effort to take to the streets and squares of europe - on the occasion of the election campaign - all the issues which are rightly dealt with in this report, to discuss them and to ensure that the internal problems of the states do not deprive us of the possibility of discussing europe, its needs, the aspirations and concerns of 500 million citizens. because building europe, mr president and commissioner, building europe with solid democratic roots is the most promising and most fruitful historical adventure of the 21st century.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr gualtieri and mr trzaskowski, on this report, which i believe is of great interest. because what is it? it is about how to achieve a more advanced european union. how can i do that? naturally, by increasing the community's powers in the european union. not necessarily all of the ones you currently have, some of them may be questionable to return to the national level. but to respond to the challenges of the union and the crisis we are facing, the union needs to have more powers. what's it about, too? we must have more budgetary capacity so that there can be community policies that solve the specific problems of the 500 million european citizens. what's it about, too? that there is democratic accountability of all the union's bodies. and finally, it is a question of increasing the prerogatives of parliament, which is the only institution directly elected by the citizens. the report also points out what we have done wrong in our response to the crisis. basically, we have done it with an intergovernmental perspective, abandoning the community method. we have done it wrong because, although we have tried to correct the reforms that have been introduced with 'sunset clauses', we finally have the challenge of incorporating these reforms into the treaties. the report also points out that more forceful responses can be explored in the current treaties and, finally, it advocates a convention that addresses all these types of problems. i think the convention would be faced with a dilemma: either more integration with more flexibility or less integration with more rigidity. and i think the right decision is more integration with more flexibility, provided that flexibility does not jeopardise the community method, the social content of the european union model or the democratic accountability of all its bodies.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 12 december 2013.
mr president, this report and the one discussed earlier by mr gualtieri and mr trzaskowski have several things in common. the most common thing is the denunciation of the institutional and political behaviour of the council, which, throughout this whole period of crisis, has made institutional mistakes by going along the intergovernmental framework and forgetting the community method. it is true that, as the vice-president of the commission has pointed out, at times we have had to react quickly to the immediacy of the problems and, surely, the only possible response was the intergovernmental one. but several years have passed and last night the council again threatened to respond to the problems of the banking union with an intergovernmental agreement. you can't make permanent what was an emergency response. the practice of negotiating the financial framework has also been a real harassment of the european council by the european parliament. it is a real 'bullying', trying to condition parliament's regulation to achieve unanimity in the council. in this context, therefore, the proposals in mr lamassoure's report seem to me to be generally correct and coherent, especially the one which requires the president of the european council to appear before the european council is held. it is a practice which exists in many countries and it is a practice which must be implemented in this parliament.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, what we have here is an institution which was established at great speed and which is also the largest international financial institution. it must therefore make absolutely sure that every step it takes is in full conformity with the law and with the best practices that govern the work of similar international financial institutions. from that point of view, i understand why the esm decided to create this administrative tribunal. there was simply a lack of best practice and there was no body to address the issue of employees’ grievances or disputes which may arise between employees and the esm. at the same time, i also agree with you that, when you compare the work of the administrative tribunal and the number of employees it serves with the work of the european court of justice which serves not 100 but more than 50 000 eu officials, it strikes us as evident that the best possible solution would be to get the european court of justice to cover these 100 employees. it might take time and, for this reason, i agree with the decision of the esm to try to minimise costs and do it in the most cost-effective way. the fact that it does not have any negative impact on the administrative budget should be highlighted and appreciated as well. in terms of a permanent solution, however, i think that we should suggest that the esm start the preparatory work to see how the cases of employees’ grievances could be covered by the european court of justice. that, as i said, is one possibility. it would require the signature of the agreement between the esm and the european union and, of course, we can provide you with the details of what would be the legal requirements of such an agreement. based on our analyses so far, it could take up to 18 months, as i said in my introductory remarks. so it would very much depend on the decision of the members of the governing boards of the esm – where the commission has only observer status – if they would like to proceed in this way or not. i hope that they would see such a possibility as a reasonable one.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for all their comments. i can assure you that all your remarks and comments will be relayed to my ministerial colleagues. it appears that a decision to establish the esmat offers some protection for the rights of esm employees. having appropriate labour protection is very important. at national level, labour laws are enforced by national courts. for international institutions, whether financial or otherwise, alternative arrangements are needed. the esm has chosen to establish the esmat. this is a decision taken by the esm governing bodies, but the esm has not excluded the possibility of making a request to the european court of justice to make its civil service tribunal the competent tribunal. however, that again is a decision for the esm governing bodies. i am confident that the esm and its governing bodies took due account of all relevant factors before deciding to establish the esmat, but i am also absolutely sure that the esm will be fully aware of the views expressed here by the honourable members of this house. as this seems to be my last appearance before this house on behalf of the council, may i use this opportunity to thank you all for your patience, for your attention during this debate, and for your cooperation during the lithuanian presidency of the council of the eu.
the next item is the joint debate on: recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the position of the council at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures (13283/1/2013 - c7-0411/2013 - 2011/0039 ((cod)) (rapporteur: godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl) (a7-0421/2013) and recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the position of the council at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of power and the implementation of certain measures (13284/1/2013 - c7-0440/2013 - c7-015/2013 (((d)) (a7-0419/2013) (a7-019/2013) (a7-019/2013) (a7-019/2013) (a7-019/2013) (a7-019/2013) (a7-019/2013) (a) (cod))
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 12 december 2013.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr jürgen klute, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the comparability of fees relating to payment accounts, the switching of payment accounts and access to basic payment accounts (com ((2013) 0266 - c7-0125/2013 - 2013/0139 ((cod)) (a7-0398/2013)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 12 december 2013. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by gesine meissner, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management (com (2013) 0133 - c7-0065/2013 - 2013/0074 (cod)) (a7-0379/2013).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs meissner and the other alternative rapporteurs on their work, which is essential to lay the foundations for an integrated management of all the economic development policies we adopt in coastal areas which have a great deal of potential. i am in favour of a truly open and participatory governance of this process, involving all the relevant actors, including local and regional authorities, and i also call for clear priorities to be set. among the many areas of coordination suggested, i would like to start with three issues: energy, natural resource management and transport. all three are essential to build a smart, inclusive and sustainable development by 2020. energy, because we have to break free of our dependence on fossil fuels and the sea is wind and tidal energy that we have to learn to transform and transport in a cost-effective way. natural resource management, because the management of fisheries with long-term plans, sustainable aquaculture and related processing activities is essential to fixing the population on a desertifying coastline. and transport, because improving the mobility of people and goods will make us more innovative and more competitive, and if we start there, in practice, the effects will soon be seen and we will once again prove that europe is worth a lot and that it is useful for citizens, for growth and for employment.
mr president, commissioner, the gsp of the european union allows developing countries to benefit from reduced customs duties, that is, better market access. we are talking about money. but to do so, they must commit themselves to respecting human rights, labour rights, environmental rights and good governance. the commission decided, by means of a delegated act, to include ten countries, ten very different countries which we did not understand why they could not be dealt with individually, given the differences between them. but now there is a new system, there is a points card, the commission has just said. we do not really understand why the commission is improvising in this way. because we do not know how it will be monitored, how it will be assessed, what the sanctions will be, what the immediate measures will be to react to the violation of human rights or to problems of occupational safety, which are frequent in some countries - as has been recalled here - or what the role of parliament is. the commissioner himself said tonight: 'it could be consulted'. the problem of the gsp+ is one of conditionality, of improving the economic situation of a country so that it can develop. let us not turn this into a business, because it could be counterproductive for the countries themselves and also for the european union.
mr president, according to the latest data from the troika’s report, banking credit to non-financial corporations in spain is falling again this year at a rate of 11%. at the same time, spanish banks are increasing lending to the spanish government at a rate of 10%. after two ltros and having thrown billions of euros in state aid to the banks, in some member states this money is being used to finance government deficits instead of credit to the real economy. the bundesbank recently reported that spanish banks today have eur 300 billion in spanish government debt. in 2009 this was only eur 70 billion. is this sustainable? i would like to ask mr draghi: is the ecb giving incentives to create huge crowding out effects? we do not want mr draghi to become ‘mr crowding out’. in the next ltro, money must not be used to fund government deficits while solvent smes in the south of europe agonise without credit at a reasonable cost.
mr president, mr governor, mr vice-president of the european commission, let me first of all congratulate mr pittella on the great report he has produced, especially on all the matters relating to small and mediumsized enterprises. we have already agreed with the council to create the second pillar of the banking union, the fund and the authority. i have no doubt that europe is the winner. the second pillar of banking union - i agree with president draghi - is not a panacea, but i have no doubt that it will serve to boost economic growth in the medium and long term; in the short term we all recognise that there is no proper transmission of monetary policy and the measures taken so far have had a very limited impact on the financing of the real economy, especially small and mediumsized enterprises and households. i agree with olli rehn's speech. i think we need to do something else. i believe that the european central bank can - and in my humble opinion should - do more to ensure that credit reaches small and mediumsized enterprises on similar terms, which will undoubtedly be the engine of growth and job creation. i, mr draghi, just want to finish by saying that i have complete confidence in you.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the european parliament plays a very important role in the debate on european economic policies and i am indeed encouraged to listen to such an engaged and substantive debate today. the commission fully supports the active role of parliament in the dialogue with the ecb, which is an important component of the ecb’s transparency and democratic accountability. let me conclude with two brief comments. firstly, several members – or at least ms ferreira and mr matias – commented on the work of the troika. we will come back to that in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) when you prepare your own-initiative report with a focus on how to improve the democratic accountability and transparency to which we are fully committed. let me just say that the esm treaty assigns the principal role to the commission in the designing and monitoring of the economic adjustment programmes. last monday, the euro group supported the exits of ireland and spain from their programmes and i am very confident that both countries, ireland and spain, are now heading towards a successful conclusion of their programmes and a safe return to market funding. this demonstrates that there is a beginning and an end to these programmes and it demonstrates that the programmes can bring about an economic turnaround, provided that they are effectively implemented. secondly, i want to thank you for your strong support for the commission’s work on freeing up the necessary and affordable lending to smes in europe. we must now do whatever it takes to get credit flowing into the real economy, to the households and businesses – especially to smes – for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation. your message has been loud and clear and i trust it will be heard not only in the eu institutions, but also in the capitals of the member states of the union. i count on your continued support and i suggest we work together for this very important objective.
president of the european central bank. − mr president, let me thank the rapporteur, gianni pittella, vice-president rehn, and all the speakers for their contributions. some of them have been praising the ecb’s actions and some of them have been critical, and i will thank you for both. but, as someone said, the outcome of this discussion is that the ecb has once again found in the european parliament a loyal ally. we will certainly do everything for this to continue in the future. let me make a few statements about our monetary policy. first of all, our monetary policy is not run with one country in mind, but it is run for the whole of the euro area. so in doing this, we have the objective of our primary mandate, which is maintaining price stability in the medium term. when we talk about price stability, we talk about price stability in both directions: above 2% and below 2%. right now we have had a low inflation rate, on the low side of 2%, for a protracted period of time. so we have to be aware that we have the same objective as the central banks working in one country having this mandate, but we have a completely different institutional set-up, with 17 – and soon 18 – countries. so the instruments of our monetary policy must be different. we do not see deflation in the euro area today. our situation is different from what it was in japan in the 1990s and early 2000s. inflation expectations in the medium and long term are firmly anchored; the monetary stimulus that we have injected in the euro area in the last two years – as many of you have acknowledged – was not there in japan at that time. the situation of banks’ balance sheets and the private sector balance sheets is better today in the euro area than it was in japan at that time. so there are various reasons. we have asked ourselves this question and the answer we gave ourselves is that we are not in that situation. however, inflation is to stay low for a protracted period of time and we are, therefore, well aware of the downside risk that this might entail; that is why i said in the last press conference that we stand ready to act and we are able to act. as i said last time, we have plenty of instruments that we can mobilise to react to the situation. but let us keep something in mind: we cannot supplement governments in their structural reform policies. ultimately it is only these reforms that yield sustainable growth in the medium and long term. we cannot supplement banks if they lack capital. we cannot supplement governments or systems that are politically broken. there are many things that central banks cannot do, and very often these many things add the real engines for growth. let me talk about two considerations in this regard: one obtains neither growth nor equity out of endless debt creation. at the same time, it is well to keep in mind that this is not the time – and i repeat it – to go back to nationalism. if one does not carry out the structural reforms, one would have to do them anyway – whether in the euro or outside the euro. so let us keep in mind that it is not the fault of the common currency if there are certain weaknesses in the euro area, but it is again a lack of action. should the ecb speak about taxation? i think the ecb should speak up against anything that could threaten the independence of its monetary policy, and policies that penalise growth ultimately tend to threaten the independence of the ecb monetary policy. that is why the ecb speaks in favour of growth-friendly budget consolidation, rather than simply consolidation tout court that says ‘let us look at the bottom line no matter how this consolidation is being achieved’. but as i said more generally, this is not the time to return to nationalism and protectionism. having said that let us not forget that if we look back two years ago or even one year ago, there has been a substantial improvement in the euro area on all fronts: on the structural reforms, on the fiscal consolidation, even on growth. as the baseline scenario of the ecb has stated for about a year and a half now, we are now in the middle of a modest gradual recovery which was previously not there. what are the drivers of this recovery? there are several, but if i have to look at the ecb certainly it is our monetary accommodation, which is gradually finding its way through the economy. second is the much lower uncertainty that we face today if compared to two years ago. but it is also due to a less hard fiscal pressure as time goes by, and also to a gradual pickup in external demand. there are also improvements in fragmentation, and i will not take your time here going through the various details, but the financial markets and the banking markets work better today. however, i am fully aware that the smes, which account for almost 80% of employment, are struggling. they are struggling both because they do not have credit, but also because they do not ask for credit, because overall demand is weak and unemployment is unacceptably high. so we have been thinking about various ways. as i said at the last press conference, if and when we do another ltro, this time the situation is completed different from what it was two years ago and this ltro will have to be geared and designed in such a way as to increase the probability that this money will actually reach the real economy. but when people make comparisons with other countries’ ltros, let me say one thing: the main features of the funding for lending scheme are its long maturity, wide collateral and wide set of counterparties, and all these last three features have been present in our ltros from the very beginning. so that is why i am saying we have to think further and reflect more deeply to find out which is the right instrument. one development that is taking place precisely at this time and which will accompany us for this coming year is the aqr. i have very little doubt that shedding more light and making the balance sheets of the banks more transparent will actually help to restore credit flows to greater levels than today. finally, two points. one is on sovereign debt. let me make this point quite clearly. there are two issues here. some ongoing discussions have suggested that we should have different risk weights on sovereign debt. this is not the task for us or for now. this is a global task that will be discussed by the basel committee at the proper time. a totally different issue is how we will treat sovereign debt in our stress test. that has nothing to do with different risk weights. sovereign debt is going to be stressed like all other categories in the bank’s balance sheets. on the troika, i will simply follow what vice-president rehn has said and we will have a discussion in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. on the srm and the upcoming accord agreement, i only have one plea: let us make sure that this new mechanism actually works. the situations in which this mechanism will be used are going to be emergency situations. if the design is cumbersome, it will not work. finally, on the four presidents’ report. i hope the next european council which will take place this week will be an adequate follow-up to that report and the enthusiasm that accompanied it at the time.
thank you, professor draghi. let me, however, acknowledge and appreciate your willingness to appear before the european parliament, since it is our parliament which has the control function and the possibility of exercising it, a function which does not belong to the national parliaments, although it is clear that the bank's activities directly affect the reality of almost all of our countries. i therefore think it is very important that parliament should be able to exercise at least parliamentary control over what the bank is doing, and you should bear in mind that we greatly appreciate your willingness to appear before us and to answer in the absolutely open way to which you are accustomed. thank you very much, professor.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 12 december 2013. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the call for a measurable and binding commitment against tax evasion and avoidance in the eu (2013/2963 ((rsp)).
mr vlasák, i am sorry, but we are not going to allow questions under the 'blue card' procedure because we are already out of time.
mr president, i think this debate, like all debates, will be about words. for five years since the crisis started, there has been no willingness to legislate to end tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance. and there isn't now. because above all, the european union is committed to the deregulatory principle. it is not at all interested in this control that ends tax havens. even at non-european summits, international summits, commitments were made five years ago at the various g20 meetings to end tax havens. and the reality is that they do exist. and they exist because they are part of a corrupt system: the corrupt system that makes deregulation the fundamental principle, with non-intervention by the states and privatizations. and, look, the clearest example of political will is that of my government in spain: it has just launched a real witch hunt against the tax authorities because they dared to investigate a company, the cemex company, for tax evasion. this is an example of the political will we have in the european union at the moment.
i would remind you that rule 149 (12) provides that members who have not taken part in a debate may submit a written statement of not more than 200 words, which will be attached to the minutes of the sitting. (end of the interventions under the 'catch the eye' procedure)
member of the commission. - mr president, i can assure you on behalf of the commission and on behalf of commissioner šemeta that the commission is not sending the ball back to the member states. it shall assume its responsibilities fully within the limits allowed by the treaty on european union. when we talk about the member states, we are talking in this context about the legislator who has to take decisions. it is not enough for the commission to multiply proposals if they are not adopted. some of you have asked what the commission has done so far. we have initiated negotiations to amend the agreements on the taxation of savings with switzerland, san marino, liechtenstein, andorra and monaco. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of automatic exchange of information between tax administrations of the union to other revenues. i would also like to thank parliament for its support in the vote yesterday, since this proposal is the precursor of very important progress at world level with the support of the g8 and the g20. the automatic exchange of information was accepted in september 2013 as the new global standard for the exchange of information between tax authorities. in july, the council also unanimously decided on a rapid reaction mechanism to combat vat fraud. in september, the oecd action plan on base erosion and profit shifting was also endorsed by the g20 as an international response to aggressive tax planning. in october, we also launched the debate on taxing the digital economy by creating a high-level expert group that will report to the commission by july 2014 on this topic. so there are some things that have been done, but in my introduction i said that we need data to be able to make proposals based on reality. if these data are not sufficiently detailed, they will not be sufficient to produce sufficiently precise and effective proposals. when i mentioned the need for a data collection system, i did not mean to put the blame on the member states. this data must be collected but it is the member states which must be able to collect it so that the commission can then make effective proposals to the legislator. you also mentioned the role of the european semester. i can assure you that the commission is making full use of these instruments, since in the context of the european semester it is closely monitoring the actions of the member states on the basis of the suggestions we have made. this is evidenced by the country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester to improve tax collection. ten countries were affected in 2012 and 13 in 2013. we are using all the instruments at our disposal and i would like to thank the european parliament once again for its determination. this political determination is very important if this current of opinion, very clearly expressed by european citizens, is to be translated into decisions at the level of the legislator, who has responsibility for this under the treaty. i can assure you, once again, that the commission will not hide behind mere statements, but we need concerted action to achieve effective results.
in order to close the debate, three motions for resolutions have been tabled, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 12 december 2013. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mrs karin kadenbach on eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policy (2012/2294 (ini)) (a7-0333/2013)
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular mrs kadenbach for her excellent report on eco-innovation. i would also like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety as a whole, and the committees on regional development and employment for their opinions. the european economy faces the challenges of their transition to a more sustainable growth model and the creation of new and better quality jobs. eco-innovation offers a potential that no one can ignore anymore. eco-innovative enterprises have an estimated annual turnover of some eur 319 billion. according to recent data published by eurostat, eco-industries generated 4.2 million jobs in 2011 and eco-innovation offers businesses the means to reach a new level of competitiveness. your report makes these arguments clear. it also stresses the action taken to support eco-innovation and the need to develop this action through horizon 2020, cosme and also the european structural and investment funds. the commission, for its part, will continue to develop these programmes and the european innovation partnership in the fields of water, raw materials, sustainable agriculture and 'smart' cities. on the employment side, the strategic challenge is not only to provide new skills to foster innovation in eco-industry, but also to encourage energy savings and the efficient use of resources by improving the skills of employees, and thus to strengthen the competitiveness of european enterprises. in addition, the commission's joint research centre is currently conducting a prospective study to develop a medium- and long-term vision for eco-industries, with the aim of identifying how they can become a source of long-term competitiveness. finally, the commission is also preparing a set of proposals on the circular economy for next spring, and i believe these measures will give a new impetus to eco-innovation. the commission welcomes this report on eco-innovation, jobs and growth in environmental policy, as it augurs for closer cooperation between parliament and the commission to stimulate eco-innovation for the benefit of growth, jobs and the environment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 12 december 2013. i wish you happy holidays and that the year ahead will be really very happy and very successful for everyone. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes an increase in the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union in order to improve the functioning of the court in order to cope with the increase in cases, approximately 65% between 2000 and 2010. the report proposes an increase of at least 12 in the number of judges. the increase in interaction between member states leads to a necessary increase in the number of cases before the court. in order to respond to this increase in a way that ensures the application of european law, it is necessary to increase the number of judges and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. this report constitutes the second part of the legislative procedure to amend the statute of the court of justice. with regard to some of the amendments proposed – increasing the number of judges – it became clear in spring 2012 that there would be no agreement in the council. there is agreement in principle that the number of judges must be increased. as the number of additional judges will be less than 27, however, not all member states will be able to appoint an additional judge. inevitably, therefore, because of the selection criteria, only some member states will be able to appoint two judges. the criteria for selecting the additional judges are correspondingly disputed. the committee on legal affairs therefore decided to divide the proposal for a regulation into two parts. the undisputed part concerning amendments to the statute was put to the vote before summer 2012 and has become law. the aim now, in the second part to be considered, is to find a solution concerning the number of, and selection criteria for, the additional judges at the general court (of first instance).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves adapting european legislation to the change in the status of the island of mayotte in french legislation. the island of mayotte has been upgraded from an overseas department to an outermost region of the european union, a status similar to that of the canary islands. this change of status has taken place within french law and this report seeks to ensure that this change is transposed into european law in such a way that there are no legal problems in the implementation of european law in that territory. this is a technical report to adapt the above-mentioned political change in the status of the island. it is because of the non-problematic nature of this report that i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. the objective of the proposed directive is to give mayotte the same status as that which has long applied to the other french outermost regions guadeloupe, french guyana, martinique and réunion, namely to be excluded from the scope of the common system of value added tax under eu secondary law. the commission is basing its proposal on article 113 tfeu, according to which the council shall adopt provisions for the harmonisation of indirect taxation, after consulting the parliament. the council did not modify the legal basis and has therefore consulted parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an adaptation of the european rules on paternity leave to the change in the status of the island of mayotte in french law. the island of mayotte has been upgraded from an overseas department to an outermost region of the european union, a status similar to that of the canary islands. this change of status has taken place within french law and this report seeks to ensure that this change is transposed into european law so that there are no legal problems in the implementation of european law in that territory; in particular, this report seeks to adapt paternity leave so that the labour market of mayotte guarantees the same rights as those enjoyed by european citizens. this is a technical report to adapt the above-mentioned political change in the status of the island. it is because of the non-problematic nature of this report that i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. − in favour. in response to a request from the french authorities to grant a deferred implementation date for directive 2010/18/eu concluded by social partners, which aims at implementing an agreement on parental leave at european level, the commission proposes to grant such deferral in order to ensure the progressive achievement of equal treatment in the particular field of parental leave and so as not to destabilise the economic development of mayotte. the commission is basing its proposal on article 155(2) of the treaty of the functioning of the european union (tfeu), whereby the council takes a decision on implementation of management and labour agreements on a proposal from the commission, and the european parliament shall be informed. the council is on the contrary proposing to change the legal basis to article 349 tfeu on specific measures for outermost regions, whereby the council adopts these measures on a proposal from the commission after consulting parliament. the committee on legal affairs (juri) of the european parliament takes the position that the legal basis chosen by the commission should be considered correct. since the legal basis of the amended directive was article 155(2) tfeu, the same legal basis should be used for the current proposal for an amending act.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a commitment to change the european fabric of production in order to boost the eco-innovation industry, so that the impact of our economic activity on the environment is reduced. the report does not provide a closed definition of eco-innovation, but it does address the transformation of european production and consumption in ways that reduce its environmental impact. this report proposes a necessary productive transformation and draws attention to this sector in order to promote and finance actions for its development, as well as training actions. this is not a definitive report, but it is essential to set a political path for europe to move towards a more sustainable production model. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. in times of economic crisis, high unemployment rates, high energy prices, scarce raw materials and dependence on imports, sustainable job creation and economic growth is essential to secure social cohesion. innovation is one of the keys to meet this target and should therefore be fostered. one way is through eco-innovation, which is a concept combining protection of the environment with growth, competitiveness and job creation. environmentally friendly innovations are essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with less impact on the environment, just to mention a few examples, as well as to develop more environmentally friendly production processes and services. eco-innovation can be many things – a new water filter to clean wastewater, thinner and stronger steel to reduce material waste, or a business model selling repair services instead of products. examples of eco-innovation are also the bicycle and car share projects in many european cities, such as the villo velo project in brussels, belgium.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves adapting the rules of the common commercial policy to the new european union legislation. the commission presented two legislative packages known as omnibus i and omnibus ii, a set of amendments needed to adapt eu trade rules to the new european legislation agreed in the lisbon treaty. this report seeks to adapt technical aspects of the legislation to enable the european trade policy to function properly, and is a necessary part of the adoption of the above-mentioned regulatory packages. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it is a technical adaptation without any problems.
in writing. − in favour. in the light of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty and by the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission was required to adapt the decision-making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. as a result the commission came forward with two alignment proposals known as omnibus i and omnibus ii, each bringing together in a single instrument the underlying trade regulations that needed to be updated, with the former covering mainly implementing acts and the latter covering mainly delegated acts. this proposal (omnibus i) therefore brings about the necessary changes to the underlying texts and specifies what procedures should apply, in particular the choice between the advisory procedure and the examination procedure for implementing acts. following the adoption of parliament's first reading position by the plenary on 14 march 2012, informal negotiations started under the irish presidency with a view to reaching an early second reading agreement. after several rounds of trilogues, parliament and council negotiating teams reached agreement on the file on 5 june 2013. the text of the agreement was presented to the committee on international trade for a vote of approval on 11 july 2013, and approved by an overwhelming majority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves adapting the rules of the common commercial policy to the new european union legislation. the european commission presented two legislative packages known as omnibus i and omnibus ii, a set of amendments needed to adapt eu trade rules to the new european legislation agreed in the lisbon treaty. this report seeks to adapt technical aspects of legislation to allow the proper functioning of the european trade policy and includes the possibility of reviewing the delegated acts to the commission after 5 years, thus allowing a democratic review of its work. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − abstention. in the light of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty and by the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission was required to adapt the decision making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. as a result the commission came forward with two alignment proposals known as omnibus i and omnibus ii, each bringing together in a single instrument the underlying trade regulations that needed to be updated, with the former covering mainly implementing acts and the latter covering mainly delegated acts. this proposal (omnibus ii) therefore brings about the necessary changes to the underlying texts which previously referred to the old comitology decision 1999/468/ec.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it improves access to banking services for all european citizens. at present, european banks are not obliged to provide minimum banking services to all citizens, but due to the functioning of the public administration, this access is necessary to carry out administrative procedures and to receive public services. the existence of persons who cannot meet the requirements for a bank account is a source of social discrimination. this report seeks to oblige banks to end such discrimination and to allow the inclusion of people in the financial sector. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the smooth functioning of the internal market and the development of a modern, socially inclusive economy increasingly depends on the universal provision of payment services. given that payment service providers, acting in accordance with market logic, tend to focus on commercially attractive consumers and effectively leave vulnerable consumers without the same choice of products, new legislation in this regard must be part of a smart economic strategy for the union.
in writing. the new rules are intended to improve the conditions for users to access bank accounts by making it easier to use them for the most common financial transactions. among the new features included are the simplification of account cost information in a more simple and standardised way for customers, and the right of any legal resident in the eu to open a bank account in another member state or to facilitate the transfer of accounts from one bank to another. i believe that these new measures will ensure greater transparency in banking practices and generate greater confidence among citizens. that is why i have supported this proposal.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it includes a necessary proposal for the common management of coastlines and marine resources to help conserve them, it does not seek to prohibit the exploitation of potentially polluting resources such as oil or gas in the mediterranean sea. we are at a critical juncture in the protection of the seas, but this report merely mentions this need, but it authorizes the development of projects for the extraction of natural resources and insists on the idea of governance, in order to allow future interventions to ensure its control of marine resources. it is essential to develop a common strategy for the seas, but not one based on the interests of european businesses. i have not been able to vote in favour of this report because of the above.
in writing. − against. the european union is surrounded by oceans and seas and there is more sea under the member statesʼ jurisdiction than land. furthermore, the coastline, shared by 23 out of the 28 member states, is seven times as long as that of the us. more than 200 million eu citizens live in coastal regions and 88 million are working there, generating more than 40 % of the euʼs gdp. five point four million of them are employed in marine and maritime sectors whose gross value added amounts to almost eur 500 billion. in that sense, the text adopted does not take into account the bad situation of natural resources and more responsible behaviour on the part of states and companies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves adapting european legislation in many areas to the change in the status of the island of mayotte in french law. the island of mayotte has been upgraded from an overseas department to an outermost region of the european union, a status similar to that of the canary islands. this change of status has taken place within french law and this report seeks to ensure that this change is transposed into european law in such a way that there are no legal problems in the implementation of european law in that territory. it seeks to make the new status compatible with legislation on the environment, agriculture, social policy and public health. this is a technical report following the political change in the island's status. it is because of the non-problematic nature of this report that i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. in 2011 the status of mayotte has been changed within the french constitutional context from an overseas territory into an overseas department. following this and on request from france, the european council, on the basis of article 355(2) and (6), changed by way of decision 2012/419/eu the status of this new overseas department with regard to the european union into that of an outermost region in the sense of article 349 tfeu. according to this decision the new status of mayotte will enter into force as from 1 january 2014 which entails the full application of eu legislation.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it includes some improvements in the rules on the financing of the european fisheries policy, it does not respond to the real demands and needs of a sector which is going through a severe crisis. for the first time, the fund is financing biological stops, increasing the co-financing rates for major actions, etc. the report, although it contains important progress worthy of note, also includes many negative measures, such as a very restrictive definition of small-scale fishing, the lack of funding for the construction of infrastructure necessary for the development of the activity, such as fishing ports, auctions for the sale of the product, etc. for all these reasons i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives a positive assessment of the cultural programme of the union. since 1985, this annual programme has been produced to promote knowledge and tourism between different european cities. this programme is intended to promote tourism in the capital city and to support urban planning and the protection and care of its historical and artistic heritage. the report includes some negatives, such as mentioning the promotion of the competitiveness of european cities, but mostly highlights the positive aspects that this programme has brought to many european cities. i believe that this type of programme is essential to promote knowledge of european cities, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the european capitals of culture were created in 1985 by intergovernmental initiative. it soon became a european union action so as to enhance its reach and effectiveness. since then this action has won widespread recognition and interest from across europe, and grown into a highly sought-after award on the part of cities aiming at profiling themselves as european centres of culture and creativity. the european capitals of culture can be viewed as one of the most successful eu initiatives of the past few years. decision 1622/2006/ec, which laid the groundwork for the current scheme, will end in 2019. competition for the title is currently launched six years ahead of nomination, in order to give the cities enough time for their preparations ahead of the start of the year of the title. therefore, the aim is to adopt the new legal basis for the continuation of the european capitals of culture in 2013, so as to ensure a seamless transition in 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves adapting european fisheries legislation to the change in the status of the island of mayotte in french legislation. the island of mayotte has been upgraded from an overseas department to an outermost region of the european union, a status similar to that of the canary islands. this change of status has taken place within french law and this report seeks to ensure that this change is transposed into european law in such a way that there are no legal problems in the implementation of european law in that territory. it is a matter of adapting the regulation of the fisheries sector to the new status. this is a technical report which also includes the defence of mayotte's marine nature park in fisheries policies affecting the island. it is because of the non-problematic nature of this report that i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. − in favour. by decision 2012/419/eu, the european council amended the status of mayotte with regard to the union with effect from 1 january 2014. therefore, from that date mayotte will cease to be an overseas territory to become an outermost region within the meaning of articles 349 and 355(1) tfeu. this proposal follows the examination of requests made by the french authorities to have the union acquis amended through specific measures applicable to mayotte in different areas, such as fisheries and animal health. the examination of the situation regarding mayotte has revealed that it is necessary to protect the sensitive biological situation of its waters. in certain respects, france needs additional time to comply with the union acquis with regard to mayotte. in view of the specific situation in mayotte, the commission is proposing amendments to certain regulations in the fields of fisheries and animal health. in the area of animal health, it is proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 1069/2009 of the european parliament and of the council in order to grant france a transitional period of five years in regard to mayotte, which would enable it to create the infrastructure necessary for the identification, handling, transport, treatment and disposal of animal by-products. the proposal has no budgetary implications.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it strongly condemns the discrimination suffered by the roma in europe and calls on the member states and the european institutions to take effective measures to put an end to the discrimination against them. this resolution is concerned about all the aspects in which the roma population is suffering from conditions different from those of other citizens of the european union. making this discrimination visible from the european institutions should serve to increase the strength of anti-racist arguments within the member states, as well as to oblige them to develop effective strategies for the inclusion of the roma people. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights; the roma suffer discrimination throughout europe and their socio-economic and fundamental rights situation is in many cases worse than that of non-roma in comparable situations; recent events in eu member states, acts of violence against roma, the lack of proper inclusion policies, the use of biased anti-roma rhetoric, structural and systemic discrimination, clear breaches of the european convention on human rights and of the eu charter of fundamental rights and the lack of judicial investigation and prosecution when violations of fundamental rights occur have demonstrated that anti-gypsyism is still prevalent in the eu and that it needs to be tackled more vigorously at all levels; poverty and social exclusion among many roma has reached a critical level which limits the life prospects of roma families and puts young roma at risk of falling into poverty from a very early age;
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it partially transposes the outcome of the vilnius summit, so that the relevant points for the political agenda of the european union are highlighted, but not the real most important points of the vilnius summit. the resolution contains an opportunistic condemnation of the ukrainian authorities of events which took place after this summit. the civil movements that are taking place in ukraine are legitimate, despite the view that the solution to the internal problems of a country cannot be solved by joining external blocs, as these movements propose. this is not the case in this resolution, but the opportunism of parliament to change its positions. i have therefore decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament has today sent a clear signal to president yanukovych. meps have called for the urgent convening of a round table at which not only the government and opposition should sit, but also, on an equal footing, representatives of civil society and students who are currently protesting in maidan square. the eu must do all within its power to support those in ukraine who want a different future. the country needs a european perspective and this includes agreeing concrete measures in support of the pro-european movement, such as a further visa liberalisation. at the same time, eu member states should consider targeted sanctions against those responsible for the violence against the demonstrators. they should not be allowed to enter the eu and should be held to account for their actions."
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises the progress made by albania in many areas of its political and socioeconomic role in the balkan region. the report approving this resolution sets out in detail the various developments in the country which have improved the rights of its people and its relations with the european union. the report highlights in a balanced perspective those areas where real progress has been made in albania. it is a report which allows a fair and impartial assessment of the political and socioeconomic situation in the country and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. albania has demonstrated progress in achieving the 12 key priorities of the commission’s 2010 opinion and the reform process is proceeding in a satisfying manner. albania has adopted the remaining key judicial, public administration and parliamentary reform measures with cross-party consensus. challenges still persist and need to be addressed swiftly and efficiently in order to make further progress on the path to eu membership. the orderly conduct of the june 2013 parliamentary elections and peaceful transfer of power are having a positive impact on the country’s democratisation process and improving its international reputation. c. whereas the eu accession process has become a driving force for continuing reforms in albania and citizens’ support for eu accession remains particularly high;
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is intended to silence the critical voices that are being produced in this institution in order to produce a discourse which accepts the council's political project. the majority of the european parliament has come together again to accept a political project which seeks to consolidate the power of european minorities who are reaping huge profits from the massive impoverishment of millions of citizens. the council intends to deepen the economic and monetary union which has now led to the economic disaster facing the countries of southern europe, and to make progress in the field of defence policy. since i do not share the political views of the council of the european union, i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − against. we oppose the general approach basically tending to justify the increase of security measures and defens expenditures.
in writing. − in favour. differentiation is a constitutive feature of the process of european integration and a means to allow its progress and guarantee substantial respect for the principle of equality, understood as the equal treatment of equal situations and the unequal treatment of unequal situations. differentiated integration should continue to act as a forerunner for deepening european integration, as it is started by a subgroup of member states, remains open to all member states and aims at complete integration into the treaties. differentiated integration takes two forms: ‘multi-speed’, in which states seek to achieve the same goals according to different timeframes, and ‘multi-tier’, in which states agree to differ in their goals. differentiation must not undermine union citizenship, which is the fundamental status of member states’ nationals, enabling those who find themselves in the same situation to enjoy, within the scope of the treaty, the same treatment in law, irrespective of their nationality.
in writing. − in fvaour. in agreement with parliament’s authorities, and in particular through exchanges of letters, president van rompuy has sought to take account of information and transparency requirements as far as possible: he has personally met parliament’s committee chairs, rapporteurs and sherpas to discuss a number of important topics; he has replied to written questions; he has provided regular reports on european council meetings, either to the plenary or to the enlarged conference of presidents, and has had numerous contacts with group chairs. this practice is worth formalising so that it can serve as a precedent for the future, and whereas it should also be improved. on the economic governance, the council saw fit to renegotiate provisions identical to those which a previous regulation had already made applicable. on an eu banking supervisory authority, the european council adopted two contradictory positions one year apart, which it could have avoided by taking greater account of parliament’s position. negotiations 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework saw the legislative process held to ransom as the legally required unanimity in the council could only be achieved by pre-empting certain major policy choices in the regulations on the policies to be financed, which, in these areas, reduces parliament’s role to one of merely amending secondary provisions.
in writing. − in favour. declines in biodiversity and in the status of our ecosystems need to be tackled in order to ensure the continued provision of ecosystem services and the protection of natural capital for present and future generations. green infrastructure helps nature to yield the full potential of the ecosystem services it can provide to society. the loss of biodiversity needs to be tackled in order to protect natural capital for both present and future generations. anthropogenic pressure threatens biodiversity and the integrity of ecosystems in the european union, including through fragmentation and destruction of natural habitats, climate change and intensified use of semi-natural habitats.
in writing. − against. we anted to keep in he text a reference saying that we believ that the troika should be replaced by a systme wherby the commission accountable to parliament is put at the heart of the mechanism with programme countries, the eurogroup is included in the decision-making process, the ecb provides experise and the imf gives advice where appropriate. this text has been deleted, so we voted against the whole resolution.
in writing. − abstention. lame duck resolution ducking the key issues to be addressed in these days, coming weeks, and months.
author. − mr president, like many of my colleagues, i am extremely worried by the situation in the central african republic which is on the verge of an implosion, with severe consequences for the population, since the rebel alliance known as seleka took power in march 2013. increased violence by armed groups and between communities and religious faiths has further deteriorated the political and security situation, marked by widespread insecurity, the violation of human rights, looting, sexual violence against women, arbitrary detentions and the recruitment of child soldiers. despite religious leaders’ efforts to avoid inter-confessional war and have a traditional peaceful coexistence between religions and communities, there is a risk that the situation will become out of hand unless it is addressed properly. it is for all these reasons that we, and several other groups, have requested that the central african authorities and all stakeholders address the structural causes of the country’s recurrent crisis and work together to implement the libreville agreement with the objective of reaching long-lasting peace and democratic solutions. we welcome the un security council decision to increase military action by french and african troops, aiming at restoring security and protecting civilians in the central african republic. we call on all parties to respect human rights and international humanitarian law and guarantee that humanitarian agencies have immediate and unhindered access to all those in need, as well as to refrain from any acts of violence against the civilian population. we also call for an investigation into human rights violations and violations of international humanitarian law committed in the central african republic. in this respect we welcome the un security council decision on an arms embargo against the central african republic and the setting up of a un commission of inquiry into the violence.
author. − mr president, it is not an easy topic to discuss because the people’s republic of china performs more than 10 000 organ transplants a year and chinese organ transplantation centres advertise that matching organs can be found within two to four weeks and yet, as of may 2013, it did not have an organised or effective public system of organ donation or distribution. china has a very low rate of voluntary organ donation, due to traditional beliefs, and the country implemented regulations in 1984 that permitted the harvesting of organs from executed prisoners. some sources, such as mr huang jiefu, director of the china donation committee and former vice-minister of health has even said that around 90% of the organs for transplant extracted from deceased donors stemmed from executed prisoners in china and that, by mid-2014, all hospitals licensed for organ transplantation will be required to stop using the organs of executed prisoners and will use only those voluntarily donated and allocated through a national system. we have to express our deep concern regarding persistent and credible reports of systematic, state-sanctioned organ harvesting from non-consenting prisoners of conscience in the republic of china, including from large number of falun gong petitioners, imprisoned for their beliefs, and members of other religious and ethnic minority groups. the chinese authorities should respond thoroughly to the request of the un special rapporteur on torture and the special rapporteur on religious freedom, who ask the beijing government to explain where the extra organs come from following the increase in organ transplants, and allow them to conduct an investigation into organ transplantation practices in china. we also call for the immediate phasing-out of the harvesting of organs from executed prisoners. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – it is very simple. what we are asking is precisely for the chinese authorities to demonstrate that they are going to respond positively to these requests. there are still many doubts as to how this will proceed, and that is what we need to demonstrate now. that is why we are asking. if by mid-2014 we are not in a position to defend what has been done, obviously we will have to respond in a much tougher manner.
