in writing. − i supported this report, considering it important to pay more attention to the quality of the urban living environment and the need for urban redevelopment. cities, home to more than two thirds of europe's population, are a fertile ground for science and technology, providing the future direction and driving force for the economy and attracting more and more people to concentrate in cities. given the fact that the influx of people into large cities has increased since the economic crisis, we need to look for solutions to improve the living environment of people in overcrowded cities. the protection and creation of green spaces, together with sustainable urban planning that takes into account the interests of the inhabitants, are certainly important for improving the quality of the living environment. this means that the local authority must be in constant dialogue with its inhabitants. one major problem is the outdated city boundaries, which are often almost impossible to change because of the rivalry between neighbouring municipalities. municipalities that have gained in population as a result of white urbanisation want to increase their revenue base at their expense, but do not contribute enough to the development of their infrastructure. to better plan the development of europe's cities and to improve the quality of people's living environment, we need to improve the cooperation between local authorities and, if necessary, to change their administrative boundaries to bring them into line with the real situation.
in writing. − i supported this report as it aims to explore the different effective mechanisms for creating synergies between the european funding programmes covered by the relevant strategic framework. i believe that it is important to focus on the measurable results of cohesion policy in order to increase the sustainability of investments and to ensure the effectiveness of funding programmes. coordination and integration of funding programmes is key to achieving a greater positive impact of the funds. it is also important to strengthen rural-urban links through the cooperation of relevant stakeholders in order to enhance the territorial cohesion of the regions.
in writing. − i supported this report, which simplifies the bureaucratic processes needed to mobilise eu solidarity fund funds, reducing the time between a disaster and the granting of aid to a member state or region. to simplify bureaucracy, it is certainly necessary to link procedures and decisions, as well as to make advance payments to speed up the disaster relief. given the high number of applications, partly due to the increase in the number of disasters, but mainly due to the fact that the legal rules are not sufficiently clear and give rise to unfounded expectations among applicants, i consider it important to clarify the criteria of the eu solidarity fund. to this end, the definition of disaster, which would be the basis for the assessment of the severity of the damage, should be defined in more detail. clearer rules would certainly help to reduce the number of ineligible applications and to reduce the negative attitude of member states towards the european union, as if the union did not want to help them.
in writing. − i find it regrettable that the european union lacks uniform and comprehensive administrative rules, which makes it difficult for citizens to understand their administrative rights in union law. it is important that the institutions and agencies of the european union apply the same basic principles in their interaction with citizens, rather than applying different and confusing rules in parallel. however, the purpose of the administration is to help, serve and support people, not to burden them with unnecessarily long procedures. to remedy this situation, more detailed procedural rules should be laid down at european level, in accordance with the fundamental principles of good administration and separation of powers. i voted for this report for the reasons i have just given.
in writing. − europeans expect action and support from the eu institutions to overcome the crisis. at first, we doubted the need for the report, but now a compromise has been reached on some points. i am pleased that we found consensus in the commission, where it was understood that we do not need a directive, but that we should accept the broader concept, i.e. the adoption of legislation. the european commission must deal with this in a way that benefits both the entrepreneur and the employer. restructuring is necessary, preparation is needed, and it must give new impetus to 'tired' businesses. but we cannot decide on matters that are not within our competence, nor can we impose on businesses obligations that are the responsibility of local authorities. however, i could not agree with several of the rapporteur's calls, such as the requirement that companies should set aside money to retrain their employees in the event of bankruptcy. i did not support such proposals. the rules on company restructuring have been adopted en masse and are in force. i do not support the adoption of ever new rules and the imposition of ever new obligations on the entrepreneur.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the eu is the biggest donor of humanitarian aid and international support to the horn of africa, a region which has for decades been suffering from instability. in order to help the region surmount the conflicts, poverty and underdevelopment, i find it important to ensure the full implementation of the goals set out in the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa region. only a comprehensive approach taking into account all the challenges of the region, as well as the problems countries face individually, can bring solutions and help to ease the sufferings of the population. i support the concrete measures proposed to further develop regional cooperation, good governance, political dialogue and joint approaches to the use of natural resources, as well as the measures to combat piracy and other security concerns such as terrorism. furthermore, i underline the need to support the countries of the region which are going through political transition, such as ethiopia, somalia, sudan, south sudan and eritrea. all these steps are of great importance to ensure that the countries of the region become capable of governing and independently ensuring stability and security for their people.
in writing. − genetic diversity, which is the basis for species survival and ecosystems, is, however, declining year by year, particularly in developing countries. it would be wrong to blame developing countries alone, since consumers and intermediaries in developed countries have created a high demand for biological resources, from which the mainly developed countries reap huge profits because of biopiracy. unfortunately, a similar pattern is found in the extraction of mineral resources, whereby indigenous peoples in a region are often deprived of a larger share of the income (e.g. in the russian federation, the republic of tatarstan, etc.) because of the reckless exploitation of their resources by a strong central power or developed countries, without their real input. that is why i also supported this report, which focuses on bio-piracy in the pharmaceutical industry and agriculture. i fully support the rapid ratification of the nagoya protocol as one of the most important tools for combating bio-piracy and restoring justice.
mr president, the future of europe means something practical and, above all, the need to take our common policies seriously. because the choice is not between a federal europe and an eu of nation states precisely, but rather between the domination of common interests or the prevalence of national short-term interests. common foreign and security policy, common security and defence policy, common energy policy, common cybersecurity policy and, above all, the completion of the single market – especially the digital single market – and completion of the emu. these represent the real future of europe. it is not a utopia. it is within our reach. is the problem that political will is lacking? yes, but even more than this, there is also the problem of mentality. one way is to look at the state or eu institutions as service- and welfare-providing companies. the other way is to feel that we are co-owners of our state and the european union. that means co-responsibility, not shifting responsibility only to the elected representatives or institutions, but making an effort to change ourselves. the last four years have shown at least two things. firstly, the financial crisis is rooted in a deepening crisis of values and moral attitudes. secondly, the conception and welfare state model of the last 30 years is not going to be sustainable. that is why it is crucial to have a change in mentality and to take responsibility. the other option could well be huxley’s brave new world.
in writing. – the situation in mali is deteriorating fast. the government has declared a state of emergency and the number of idps has reached more than 200 000, not counting refugees fleeing to neighbouring countries. i welcome the fact that the un security council was quick to declare its unequivocal support for the planned mission by france to help mali government forces fight the rebels. i also welcome the fact that the foreign affairs council of the eu is able to gather at such short notice to discuss eu involvement. i only regret that in the case of syria neither the un, nor the eu has done the same. parallel to military support, the eu together with other international partners has to find solutions to the worsening humanitarian situation. according to the ocha, more than four million people will need assistance this year in mali. in these conditions where many people have fled to neighbouring countries and the tuareg rebels are operating, a cross-border humanitarian crisis could be sparked, possibly even war. it is time for fast action, both in terms of military and humanitarian support. we cannot allow another war led by islamist radicals; the sooner the eu acts, the better.
in writing. beyond plan a, i.e. direct intervention in mali, there should be a plan b, so it seems appropriate to think about it urgently. i think that this plan must at least provide for the tuaregs of the kidal region to be given full and effective autonomy once and for all.
my fellow citizens! in the face of global competition, coordination of the economic policies of the member states is essential in the european union. however, as regards the introduction of stability bonds envisaged by the commission in the green paper, i do not think that this is the right mechanism for the recovery of the euro area. first, stability bonds could remove market incentives for fiscal discipline by facilitating sometimes reckless fiscal policies in certain countries. the joint guarantee of loans risks the default of individual member states. my country, latvia, has demonstrated through its austerity regime that it is possible to recover from the economic crisis in a relatively short time and to restore growth. moreover, and most importantly, it has done so almost entirely on its own without relying on financial support from other countries. i think what latvia has done should be an example. second, debt consolidation may lead to higher borrowing interest rates for economically stronger member states, especially those currently rated at the top. however, it is important that these member states do not lose the confidence of the financial markets that has been built up over their long-term work. third, eurobonds are not a magic bullet for the recovery of the european economy. there is also a risk that investors may be reluctant to invest in bonds, fearing that this could lead to an increase in the total debt of the euro area. i think, however, that one of the answers to economic recovery is to meet the maastricht criteria in each member state. finally, i would like to emphasise that it is too late to talk about fiscal union while work is still being done on improving the governance of the european monetary union and on the creation of a rescue fund. if eurobonds are issued, i agree with sylvie goulard that the commission should draw up criteria, and among these criteria must be strict budgetary discipline and timely repayment of loans. thank you.
i do not support this bill, despite all due respect to the rapporteur, and i also know that both my own group and the debate here today show that there are very different views throughout parliament. actually, there are various reasons given here, but i think one important reason for not backing the bonds is that it puts some countries in a position where they are only responsible and other countries are in a position or remain in a position where they are just enjoying a credit-based prosperity. we already have various measures that we have adopted since the maastricht criteria were set. now we have the six-month package, the banking union and many other measures. they really need to be implemented before we can go on to any other new challenges. take the esm, where large parts of the state budget, including a significant part of my own country's - estonia's - state budget, is guaranteed by the esm, and right now we really have the feeling that we have already had our pants off and now they are saying give us our underpants to guarantee the cotton pants of those who have reached a debt crisis with their socialist economy.
madam president, i am sure the prime minister must be quite tired already sitting down there; however prime minister, i need to raise the case of sergei magnitsky with you. i am sure you are well informed that last year in october this parliament adopted by a large majority the recommendation to the council to introduce sanctions on visas and financial assets in eu territory against those russian officials who were guilty in sergei magnitsky’s death. i would like to ask you if and when the irish presidency is planning to put this question on the council’s agenda. i would also like to assure you that the large majority of members of this parliament who adopted this recommendation are looking very much forward to your activities on this issue during your presidency.
in writing. i have high hopes for the irish presidency. ireland is a country that has demonstrated its ability to make decisions in difficult situations. if we are talking about one particular problem - youth unemployment - then obviously we need to tackle this problem in a very substantial way, which means getting to the root of the problem. it's a great danger to all of us if our inaction grows into a generation that has no work ethic.
in writing. − to give a new impetus to the european economy and move it upwards, it is not enough to 'cut the slate'. the unemployed do not pay taxes or consume, but rather burden the social system. there are two sides to every coin, and decision-makers should not be guided by a black-and-white worldview. of course, where there is no efficiency, there must be cost savings. a prerequisite for a sustainable solution to the budget deficit is a serious commitment to growth-friendly consolidation measures. it is important to focus on a long-term and credible budgetary consolidation strategy. the priority must be to put people first and to reduce the high unemployment rate, which is particularly high among young people. in my view, the new growth in europe is based on the greater inclusion of young people in the labour market through various measures, such as the youth guarantee. i supported this report, which gave good attention to these issues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu has to react to the disproportional influence that the credit rating agencies currently enjoy. although i respect the principles of a free market, i think that certain conditions need to be set for credit rating agencies that want to do business in europe.
in writing. - it was high time that all stakeholders in the financial sector were subject to public scrutiny. the crisis has exposed the highly controversial role of credit rating agencies and has often called into question their objectivity. i think that the flexibility of the market for credit rating agencies, the mandatory rotation and the access of new players will increase credibility. at the same time, i am cautiously sceptical about the idea of creating a public eu rating agency. it is not certain that such an institution can be completely objective under political pressure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. in essence, it brings the previously established plan concerning cod stocks and fisheries exploiting these stocks up to date with the decisional framework introduced by the lisbon treaty. in addition, however, i believe that the amendments also specify some important elements, which will allow the establishment of the multiannual plan to become more transparent and effective. this will be achieved through ensuring the presence of the european parliament in the decision making process and through consultation with relevant bodies, such as the stecf and the baltic sea regional advisory council. this will ensure that cod stocks in the baltic sea will be exploited in a sustainable manner, taking into account the economic, social and environmental concerns. i find it important to underline that considering the rise in cod stocks the report amendment will allow small-scale fisheries to fish cod during closed season. this may prove economically important for small-scale fisheries as the prices during this period are high.
in writing. − i abstained during this vote because i believe that we should have adopted a multi-annual plan for several fish stocks in the baltic sea at the same time. concentrating only on cod stocks does not serve to create the necessary balance in marine life.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this very important report aiming primarily to diminish the differences between regions regarding their energy connectedness and energy efficiency measures. structural funds are an important source in providing a greater added value and complementarity to the energy policy goals of the eu. outermost regions of the eu, in some cases even a whole country like estonia, are often not connected to main energy networks and find themselves in a very disadvantaged situation when it comes to energy supply and energy security. the report strongly calls on connecting the regions, building energy storages to avoid energy shortage in certain regions. structural funds can and should be used in such cases more efficiently and help especially smaller and poorer regions. secondly, cross-border energy projects with the regions outside eu need to be better supervised and full compliance with eu rules needs to be ensured. thirdly, funds to support projects on energy efficiency must be made more easily accessible and the administrative burden to regions and smes brought to a minimum if we want new standards to be applied, so disadvantaged regions become energy sustainable and could keep up with the overall developments in the eu.
in writing. − i supported this report because it serves the objectives of european energy policy, which are security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness. in addition to that, i would like to stress that investing in energy infrastructure and energy-efficient construction and transport will directly lead to the creation of new jobs, which are crucially needed in today’s europe.
in writing. − i voted against this report for strictly ideological reasons. i acknowledge the hard work done by the rapporteur but i cannot vote for the mutualisation of debt under these circumstances. in my view this does not represent basic liberal values.
in writing. − i do not support eurobonds because my small home country has cut back and saved money and our borrowing costs are the lowest in the european union. to place another burden on our people is neither fair nor acceptable. of course, so-called "good finance" has come at the expense of the welfare and living standards of the people. it's about solidarity between nations, and it's done in a very demanding way. yes, we are in solidarity, but at the same time not many countries in the eu are in solidarity with us, for example by agreeing to lower agricultural subsidies for us and the other baltic states. solidarity cannot be selective. since the first amendment was supported, although not by me, the report has been adopted and the final vote has not taken place. i would have voted against the report for the reasons i have given.
mr president, i would like to warmly welcome the minister for the next six months. i think it is a bold initiative by the european union to engage iraq as a long-term partner and take co-responsibility for building a stable democracy there. it is good that mr mauro’s report stresses the basic principle that using iraqi oil resources should be conditional on the implementation of the rule of law and full compliance with international standards for contracts. the crucial problem, however, is the fragility and instability of the iraqi state. the two-year-old erbil agreement, while creating a national unity government, has unfortunately not been carried into practice. instead, the prime minister has concentrated more and more power in his own hands. the situation of the religious and ethnic minorities remains extremely precarious. this is especially true of christians, whose numbers have dwindled to less than one percent. we are seeing this historic minority disappear before our eyes, and we should take co-responsibility for this too. one trend which the report does not fully address is the long-term impact that iran’s military dictatorship and secret services are exercising on majority shiite politicians, especially the prime minister. the question to be answered before any pca can be signed is: how can we expect our future partner to be reliable and democratic while retaining such intimate relations with the aggressive and terrorist-exporting regime of tehran, against whom the eu is applying sanctions? i think the present wording of paragraph 17 is very unfortunate. i think it needs to be corrected and the safety and freedom of individual choice of ashraf residents should be fully respected.
mr president, the initiative was actually based on the council of the eu strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction from more than nine years ago, but last year the european council supported the process which is designed to lead to the establishment of a zone in the middle east free of weapons of mass destruction. as the un-sponsored helsinki conference on the establishment of such a zone in the middle east has been postponed, it is a chance and the role of the eu to prepare the political ground as to how to proceed and what could be europe’s contribution to this idea. we support the idea of convening the helsinki conference, possibly this year already, but, as the minister said, we must keep the momentum going. of course, being realists, the weapons-of-mass-destruction-free zone in the middle east can be viewed as an ultimate goal. however, several weapons-of-mass-destruction-free zones already exist, in latin america, the south pacific, africa and central asia. at the same time, facing the still unresolved challenge of what would happen if iran, which is systematically exporting terrorism, were to take command of its own nuclear weapons, we understand the importance of developing a peaceful alternative to this spectre of a mutual nuclear race that could well start soon in the middle east. condemning resolutely any threat to use weapons of mass destruction in the region in question should be the red line of eu rhetoric. this applies especially to the possible plans by the syrian regime to use chemical weapons, but it is crucial to use all means to prevent such a deadly race from starting. in doing this, the great idea of a middle east nuclear-weapon-free zone could be used as a wider strategic umbrella, providing more optimism and political resolve to settle the current conflict there. the eu can, and should, play a more active role in this process.
author. − mr president, i would like to take this chance to express my sincerest condolences to all the girls and women in india that have suffered horrific and barbaric violence. i would like to assure them that the eu is taking this extremely seriously and is devoted to helping to improve the situation as fast as possible. the recent brutal rape and murder of a 23-year-old student from new delhi is unfortunately not a unique case in india today. physical and psychological violence against women is deeply rooted in the feudal and patriarchal society, which has led to huge inequalities between men and woman. as some colleagues have already mentioned, it is estimated that rape is reported every 21 minutes in india, which in 2011 accounted for 24 000 reported cases. as the judicial procedure usually does not bring any justice, many victims never report being abused. of more than 635 rape cases reported in delhi in 2012, only one case led to conviction. this is outrageous and i call on the eu to do everything in its powers to ensure that india reforms its legislation and starts convicting those responsible for these terrible cases. the eu has committed eur 470 million for the period 2007-2013 in support of the health and education programmes. in the ongoing year and for the next financial period the eu has to put emphasis on the necessity to allocate this support to increase women’s rights in india. the same applies to the member states’ representations in india, which need to prioritise programmes addressing violence against women and girls. in addition to sexual abuse, according to the government data analysed, more than 100 000 women are burned to death and more that 125 000 die from violent injuries in india every year. these tragic numbers demonstrate the scale of the problem and it needs to change. this resolution calls on the democratic indian government to ensure respect for democratic principles, fundamental rights and human rights – in particular the rule of law and the rights of women. i hope that india reacts immediately and that in 2013 it will not longer be considered one of the worst places in the world for a woman to live in, as has happened in the past.
blue-card question. – i would just like to clarify the point about india being the worst place for women to live in the world. that is not my personal interpretation of the facts; it is the finding of reports from international organisations.
author. − mr president, as part of the arab spring, the protests in bahrain were initially aimed at achieving more political freedom and equality for the shia population. however, that goal still needs to be fulfilled. unfortunately, the ruling power has not allowed a full and free debate on this issue to take place, and instead of communicating with the pro-democracy protestors, they have reacted to demonstrations with force. there have been cases in which the government has regretfully violated rights and freedoms, in particular the right of individuals to peaceful protest, free speech and digital freedom. at the same time, i admit that we should also recognise some of the positive changes and reforms that have been introduced, such as the nomination of an ombudsman with a view to changing the detention centres. this resolution does not intend to interfere with bahraini internal politics. it concentrates on the need to respect democratic principles and to ensure that fundamental, human and citizens’ rights are upheld. without having a dialogue with the shia population, who are a majority in bahrain, the bahraini government is moving away from democracy. this parliament urges the bahraini authorities immediately to continue reforms, to lift the de facto restrictions on all demonstrations, free the unlawfully imprisoned activists and allow foreign international human rights organisations into the country.
author. − mr president, the central african republic has suffered years of instability and violent confrontations since it gained independence in 1960. although the country is rich in natural resources it ranks only 179th out of 187 on the human development index. over that time the country has not yet had free and fair elections and the handover of power has been realised by force. taking that into account, i welcome the peace agreements signed on 11 january this year, and i hope that these agreements will be honoured by all of the signatories. only with political will and good faith will it be possible to achieve lasting peace in the central african republic. nevertheless, the awful crimes committed by the rebels in the past must not be forgotten and the people responsible need to be convicted. the killings of innocent people and the use of child soldiers needs to end in order for peace and stability to settle. the state needs to demonstrate that it protects fundamental rights and upholds the rule of law. the next big challenge for the country is to respect the ceasefire and to conduct free elections through which the people can decide who they want to see in power. here, the eu needs to support the central africa republic very strongly with financial and technical assistance in order for the result of the elections to represent the future of the peace.
in writing. – smes make up 98% of the eu’s businesses, account for some 65% of all jobs and have created 85% of the new jobs between 2002 and 2010. the years of crisis have had a negative impact. access to financing and services is decreasing, business loan interest rates are rising, and extra guarantees compared to previous years are burdening businesses. we need to reinforce the entrepreneurial mentality in europe and support smes, our gears for growth and employment. think small first is a principle underlining the tailor-made support to smes, taking into account diversity. diverse financing mechanisms need to become available and accessible to smes, ranging from micro-credits and loan guarantees to crowd funding and other instruments. smes most need small loans and loan guarantees. statistics shows that second-time entrepreneurs tend to be more successful than first-timers, so supporting business drop-outs is crucial. this would also boost the general entrepreneurial spirit and encourage business-making. access to information on programmes and financing possibilities remains a problem. member states should create easily approachable single information points to enable smes to get fast and easy information and, when needed, assistance, on eu programmes and financing schemes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i find that improving access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises is one of the key factors in helping to overcome the crisis. the fact that 85 % of all new jobs in the eu between 2002-2010 were created by smes shows particularly well that we need a special strategy and an approach in order to maintain that. equally important is the need to support new start-ups and provide financial tools to new and innovative projects that add extra value to the economy.
in writing. corporate responsibility for the sustainability of the natural and human environment is the foundation of european values and every company should act on this basis. as a liberal, i agree that the market does a lot of things through self-regulation, and that europeans would prefer to consume products and use services from socially responsible companies. despite the foregoing, consumers are still mainly price-oriented, i.e. principles are more important when consumers are not as price-oriented. i support modern companies that voluntarily follow the principles of social responsibility. however, it is clear that without concrete steps we will not be able to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves efficiently enough. entrepreneurs need motivation, for example, they should be stimulated by various tax incentives. there are many ways to ensure corporate social responsibility, but it is clear that moving towards a mere tightening of rules, punishing and increasing the bureaucratic machinery of supervision will not bring success. the entrepreneur's motivation would certainly be the road to be paved.
mr. chairman, my colleagues! the reduction of noise pollution has indeed attracted considerable attention from both car and truck manufacturers and their representative organisations. i'm going to talk about a couple of specific problems. the main issue for trucks is categorization. the commission proposed two categories of heavy-duty vehicles. but is that enough? we have to consider where these trucks are going and what they're transporting. i agree with many manufacturers and hauliers that the heavy-duty vehicle category should be extended to three categories based on the rated power of the engine: below 180 kw, 180 to 250 kw and above 250 kw. this would ensure the smooth and efficient movement of large volumes of goods. a similar approach should be considered for large coaches and i hope that these proposals will be supported in the vote tomorrow. equally important are the period of application of the regulation and the noise limits to be imposed. as regards the application period, we must take into account that the manufacturers will be ready to supply the required output in time. sometimes it can take up to ten years. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that i am in favour of reducing noise and pollution, but this must go hand in hand with the efficient operation of the transport sector. i hope for a balanced approach in the vote tomorrow.
in writing. the final phase of the eu budget is a tense one. as with all budgets, this is exactly what happens. there must be compromise, ignorance is the worst hindrance to progress. the final phase of the debate will indicate how to be better prepared for budgetary negotiations in the future. today's discussion shows that there is not enough understanding of the value of the money we have. there is still too much in the air of national selfishness and less general policies, such as transport links, energy projects, research projects. the bearded theme is certainly the location of the eu institutions. too much distraction is a travesty of savings.
in writing. − i supported the proposal to confirm the employment policy guidelines adopted on 21 october 2010 until 2014 to ensure that the focus is on implementation. the employment guidelines of the europe 2020 strategy were adopted over two years ago, but given the high level of unemployment still present in europe, member states must continue to make efforts to improve the situation. it is particularly important to focus on reducing youth unemployment and, to this end, to align education and training systems with labour market needs, to promote the quality of jobs and lifelong learning, and to combat structural unemployment. member states should make more effective use of the european social fund support in implementing the employment guidelines and should also be able to use the esf resources.
in writing. - i supported my colleague's well-written report, considering it important that patients have faster access to cheaper generic medicines. the current situation, where pricing and reimbursement decisions for medicines can sometimes take several years, is certainly not acceptable and shortening the pricing and reimbursement process for generic medicines to 60 days is a very reasonable timeframe. in order to ensure transparency and fairness in the decision-making process, it is essential that the names and declarations of interests of the members of the committees on healthcare are published. i consider that the introduction of minimum european procedural requirements is necessary to ensure legal certainty for the competent authorities and to encourage research and development of new medicinal products, despite the fact that this area is the exclusive competence of the member states. the ultimate goal, however, is to make affordable treatment more easily accessible to all european patients.
in writing. − i supported this report wholeheartedly as it represents a crucial reform of the eu’s current common fisheries policy. fish stocks in the eu have decreased drastically over the years and it is evident that serious changes must be implemented in order to maintain fish stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield. this report also corresponds well to the principles of long-term environmental sustainability.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the adoption of a comprehensive reform of the fisheries policy. i am pleased that the majority in this parliament supported the replacement of the current fisheries policy with a new sustainable policy that ensures not only the conservation of fish stocks but also their increase. it was time to replace the quota allocated by member states at random with research-based quotas, which would help to restore fish stocks. nearly 80% of the mediterranean and 47% of the atlantic stocks are overfished, while an average of 25% of the total catch is discarded. as most fish are dead by the time they are thrown back into the sea, the reform is a crucial and necessary step for the future of european fisheries. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. in summary, this is good policy and i therefore supported the adoption of the whole package.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. it has come to my attention that the noise caused by different motor vehicles has recently started to disturb more and more estonians. i believe this report will contribute to reducing the excessive noise stemming from motor vehicles and more generally help to encounter the public health and environmental concerns related to noise emissions. i believe this report has a comprehensive approach to noise reduction, as it takes into account road surfaces, tires and car machinery used. furthermore, the report also proposes concrete methods to put in place a unified measurement of noise levels, which will facilitate the uniform application of the regulation. importantly, manufacturers will now have to provide the consumers with the necessary information on motor vehicles sound levels by providing sufficient labelling. the report’s main aim is to bring the commission’s proposal concerning sound level of motor vehicles in line with the latest technical developments. by taking these developments into account, the sound level of motor vehicles will be better regulated in the future. in my view, the report also improves the overall feasibility of these requirements for the industry, which remains dependent on production cycles.
in writing. − in today's vote, i supported the adoption of a report on limiting the noise level of motor vehicles to ensure greater environmental protection and to reduce the impact of noise on human health. at the same time, noise reduction has attracted considerable attention from both car and truck manufacturers and their representative organisations. it is good to see that a clear signal has finally been given to introduce new standards and that the possibilities of vehicle manufacturers have been taken into account in this decision. although the final decision is a little more lenient on environmental requirements for vehicle manufacturers, it is worth noting that annex iii has been given appropriate categories for vehicles, buses and trucks. these amendments brought the legislation into line with the real situation, where, in particular for lorries, there are more than two categories of vehicles, as the volumes of goods and the transport distances can be significantly different. as the development of completely new technologies can take up to 10 years, it is important that the implementation time takes into account the fact that manufacturers are ready to deliver compliant products in time. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that i am in favour of reducing noise and pollution, but this must go hand in hand with the efficient operation of the transport sector.
in writing. − given europe's current failed fisheries policy, with statistics showing a high level of overfishing (for example, 80% of the mediterranean and 27% of the atlantic stocks are overfished), i supported this report to ensure the sustainability of european fish stocks. in view of the latter, i am pleased to note that amendments nos 5, 7 and 60 have been approved by parliament, which require fishermen to take account of the requirement to ensure sustainable yields from 2015 onwards, whereby a given species of fish may not be caught beyond its reproductive capacity for one year. i voted in favour of most of the points put forward by my group alde , but also disagreed with some of them. these were questions concerning certain additional restrictions on fishing vessels (e.g. amendment no 274) and other additional clarifications (e.g. amendments nos 116, 94 etc.). i hope that this reform of the eu's fisheries policy will deliver the desired result, namely the recovery of european fish stocks by 2020 to a level that is sustainable for the future. however, this requires the implementation of the reform to be based on multiannual comprehensive fisheries planning and adequate monitoring.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am firmly against discrimination against women and for women's rights. violence against women and girls remains one of the most widespread structural human rights violations in the world, encompassing all forms of violence. we must stand up to physical, sexual and psychological violence. the lack of equality between men and women and gender discrimination are important reasons for this. the elimination of violence against women and girls requires cooperation between different sectors and stakeholders. it is important that the un commission on the status of women in march this year also delivers real results that contribute to the elimination of violence against women. a global campaign of support based on partnerships between states and civil society and women's organisations would certainly be a step forward in the fight against discrimination and violence.
mr president, i think today’s debate indicates that the time has possibly come for a breakthrough in this longstanding tragedy. dialogue with a clear commitment to abstain from violence is the only way to build a minimum of trust between the two parties. prime minister erdoğan’s meeting with mr öcalan is a sign that the turkish government might be willing to start such a dialogue. however, responsibility lies with both sides. the turkish government, as a government, still has a chance to show more generosity, and it holds the keys to provide genuine freedom of expression and fundamental rights for all citizens of turkey. that means freeing kurdish journalists and activists from prison and providing the kurdish minority with the right to use their language and cultivate their national identity. increased socio-economic aid to the kurdish-populated regions could also be helpful, and the eu is there to play a more active part in this.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, allow me to thank all honourable members for their very constructive exchange on this topic and obviously i will transmit all of your concerns and the issues which you have raised to catherine ashton. we are confident that we can count on you to make the human rights council the important venue for human rights issues that we want it to be: a forum for ensuring accountability for human rights abuses, advancing human rights standard-setting and strengthening cooperation with partners in this domain. the eu has not wasted any time over the last year to take steps towards enabling the eu machinery to deliver on our strong commitment to advancing human rights around the globe. we have sought to further connect activities undertaken by the eu in un human rights fora in geneva and new york with the bilateral relations with third countries, and we have created a network of human rights focal points in eu delegations in order to advance this. we are raising multilateral human rights issues in nearly all bilateral human rights dialogues and consultations, and these issues are reflected in the tailor-made country strategies that we are continuing to finalise at a fast pace. we are discussing with partner countries ways and means to implement relevant recommendations stemming from the universal periodic review (upr) as well as recommendations formulated by treaty bodies and special procedures, including through technical assistance. we support the office of the high commissioner in this work and we value very much the independence of that office. we encourage partner countries to cooperate with the un human rights system. a number of specific issues have been raised by members and i will try to touch on as many of them as i can. firstly, tunisia has been raised by a number of members. the high representative has strongly condemned the killing of the opposition leader in tunisia and we will use every opportunity to make our concerns known. in respect of sri lanka, indeed this is a matter of great concern. therefore the approach is to highlight the problem of encroachment on independence of justice and that work will continue at eu level. mr howitt and other members raised the question of bahrain and here we are hoping to join a cross-regional statement, a strong statement on bahrain at the hrc. mr protasiewicz and others have raised the question of belarus. of course belarus continues to be a high priority for the eu; that was reflected in the 2011 resolution and indeed in the decision to appoint a special rapporteur in 2012, and that work continues. i addressed the question of the upr and israel in my opening remarks. i think the position of the eu is clear and we expect all countries to be part of the periodical review process. in relation to syria, which again has been raised by a number of members, the foreign affairs council, on 18 february, will address all issues related to syria including the fight against impunity, the question of the icc and so on. so it is very much to the fore on our agenda. a number of members have raised the question of religious minorities, and rightly so. the eu, as you will be aware, organises a very important side event with the special rapporteur on this issue which is hugely important to us and we will continue to focus on the issue of religious minorities – all religious minorities who were subjected to persecution. that is the correct approach and i know mr piotrowski and mr tannock raised that point in their interventions. a number of members also raised the question of digital freedoms. the eeas is actively working to implement human rights action plan 24 to promote freedom of expression online and offline. i think it is fair to say that in a variety of multilateral fora the eu has led on this issue and will continue to do so. there is intense cooperation on developing guidelines on this by the end of the year, including in particular the protection of bloggers and journalists, who are of course targeted and have been subjected to abuse and persecution in many countries, and so we will continue that work. finally, as regards the issue which was raised by mrs morvai, i would simply say that i do not have an answer to the issue that you have raised but i will of course pass it on to the high representative and the eeas will look into it.
in writing. today's debate is of the utmost importance, and i would like to ask you what is the responsibility of france when it sells to russia air defense missiles, mistral weapons system. do you think this will improve the human rights situation in the world?
in writing. − i supported this report, agreeing with the rapporteur that savings and efficiency can be achieved by identifying overlap and inefficiency in budget lines, rather than by cutting them purely for the sake of divorce. the areas of the so-called new institutions, such as the european external action service and the european institute for gender equality, should be particularly carefully strengthened, so as not to render them ineffective through budget cuts. it is also not normal for the european union to make commitments without providing a budget for their implementation. the uniform cuts and the indiscriminate convergence of the budgets of the institutions will produce the opposite result. if we are talking about savings, this should be achieved first and foremost through greater cooperation between the institutions and the use of information technology systems (e.g. meetings via skype), etc.
in writing. − vat fraud accounts for several billion euro every year in the eu. unfortunately the criminals have been a few steps ahead of new safeguarding legislation. i supported this report because i believe that giving the member states more flexibility to target vat fraud schemes will definitely have a positive effect. the emergency measures defined under the quick reaction mechanism will allow a more efficient and targeted approach and decrease the amount of money that member states lose each year.
in writing. − i am in favour of the creation of a rapid reaction mechanism to combat vat fraud and therefore voted in favour of this report. the european union and its member states are suffering billions of euros in lost tax revenue every year from vat fraud. with member states having to squeeze budgets, tighten their fiscal policies and the eu budget being hotly debated, we need to ensure that large-scale tax fraud does not damage already strained budgets. the process to stop fraud and put the necessary measures in place has been slow and cumbersome. the rapid reaction mechanism, on the other hand, allows for a response within one month and allows a member state to grant a temporary derogation. this will help to ensure that vat fraud is detected and prevented quickly. of course, caution is needed here, since the fight against vat fraud must not burden honest taxpayers with new obligations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the single market has a crucial role in boosting growth and employment in the european union. it is therefore important to fully exploit all its potential and benefits. i believe that this report will contribute to the better application and assessment of the single market. this report made concrete proposals to complete the commission’s communication on ‘better governance’ of the single market. the commission already proposed several necessary implementation and enforcement actions, which included better coordination and stricter infringement procedures. this report goes further and proposes some concrete actions. this includes for example suggestions for cooperation between member states’ authorities, but also the introduction of the single market test and speedy infringement procedures including interim measures. this report also proposes to establish a concrete legal framework for the monitoring and application of the single market provisions inside the european semester. in my view, this should create a stable assessment of the state of the single market and able to better issue country-specific recommendations in specific areas.
in writing. − i believe that a properly functioning single market in the eu has a huge influence on economic growth. the commission has estimated that an additional 4 % of gdp can be obtained if we continue with the development of the single market in the next ten years. in our internet age, going further with building the digital single market is equally important. focusing on efficiency and equal standards will boost the economy and increase the eu’s competitiveness in the world. this report gives good guidelines for this and that is the reason why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the economic crisis has affected and affects us all. while men were the first to be hit when the crisis began, women were already more vulnerable in the next phase of the crisis, and not only women but also the children they were supporting. the effects of the crisis on women are also more lasting. unfortunately, this phase of the crisis is not well documented and its impact on women is underestimated. approximately 70% of public sector employees are women, and therefore they are the main victims of the state budget cuts, the salary cuts and the salary freezes. and today, there's no end in sight. the crisis is not over. with the feminization of poverty, there is also the impoverishment of the young. children raised in poverty are more likely to experience unemployment later in life, lower wages, and so poverty can be passed on to their children. true, the latest eurostat showed some reduction in the gender pay gap, from 17% to 16.2%. however, looking at the overall impact of the crisis on women, we cannot speak of an improvement in the economic situation of women, but only of the impact of the reduction in men's wages on the wage gap. social policy is not separate from economic and financial policy; their effects are mutual. we must address not only the financial mechanisms but also the social aspects of the crisis. i believe that we should consolidate the broad economic policy guidelines into a single act with the employment guidelines. i thank the rapporteur, mrs morin-chartier, for her accurate presentation of the pain points on gender equality caused by the impact of the economic crisis.
my distinguished colleagues. first, a great deal of recognition for the work already done by the rapporteurs, which has been a considerable effort. what i would like to highlight: firstly, the issue of distortions of competition. obviously, we must design our agricultural policy in the future in such a way that there is no distortion of competition between member states, and i see it as an absolute minimum that no member state should receive less than 75% of the average direct payments in the european union at the end of the period. it should be a clear goal and purpose. secondly, we've talked a lot about the administrative burden on farmers here. this is a very serious matter. we have a whole range of elements that sound very nice and beautiful in this room, even the theme of greening. but much less is said about how this issue might be implemented in the member states, what the administrative burden would be. and here is a point i would like to make: it is very important for certain member states to continue with the sap system. i hope that a compromise will be found so that in the countries where direct payments are implemented under the current sap system, it will be possible to implement this system in the future.
mr president, i agree that more money is needed for the mff. however, the essence of the eu is not fighting for more money or about its distribution. 99% of gdp remains in each member state. it is in the member states where the future of the european community lies and will be decided. it will be decided in the field of structural reforms and productivity. our commission president today told us there is a difference in productivity between member states amounting to a factor of two. some speakers offered a second track in addition to fiscal discipline. however, we can have half a dozen new tracks: what we need is an engine, the engine of united political will and the support of our citizens – which could be the result of renewed productivity. my latvian colleague just told us about the latvian experience. latvia has shown that austerity, balancing the budget, conducting structural reforms and reviving the economy are not mutually exclusive. as a result of these reforms, and only these reforms, latvia will hopefully join the eurozone by the beginning of next year. their message is very modest but overpowering in its simplicity: this is doable. i also have a message to the council to finally decide about the fate of macedonia, and to start long-overdue negotiations with this state, which is better prepared to meet european criteria than some other official candidates.
mr president, baroness ashton: james clapper, the director of the us national intelligence, said yesterday to congress that north korea for the first time poses a serious threat to the united states, as well as to its east asian neighbours. there has been a third nuclear test, launching intercontinental missiles, and while iran is playing at gaining time to complete these programmes, north korea has started demonstrating a total lack of respect for its international commitments. but north korea cannot act alone. i think china is playing a crucial role here, and while china seems to be embarrassed by north korea’s behaviour, it is still ideologically linked to this state; there is a dictatorship of communist parties in both states, and apparently china is not interested in the collapse of the north korean regime. another aspect is cooperation between north korea and iran. there is clearly cooperation on developing missiles, but there must also be nuclear cooperation. so there is a network of undemocratic solidarity, which is supporting such countries as iran and north korea, and we should answer with a clear network of peace-loving states that unite in … (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the recent bilateral summit has given rise to much hope that an association agreement will be concluded this year. as president van rompuy said, this is the most advanced agreement of its kind to be negotiated by the european union. this clearly illustrates our firm commitment to deepening economic and political relations with ukraine. at the same time, the eu has to stand by its values and needs to be sure that its closest partners will follow the same line. among its current shortcomings, ukraine needs to work hard to reform its election laws, implement economic reforms and eliminate its system of selective justice. alarmingly, we have witnessed the use of political motivations in several high-profile cases in ukraine, including those of yulia tymoshenko and yuriy lutsenko. the judicial system must comply with the principle of separation of powers and must stand apart from politics. the recent news that serhiy vlasenko, the lead defender of yulia tymoshenko, has been stripped of his parliamentary seat does not bode well in this regard. tightening ukraine’s bonds with the european union will help solve these issues, but the agreement is achievable only with a strong political commitment from the ukrainian side. ukraine should not stay lingering between the eu and the russian-led customs union. there needs to be a clear choice. the ukrainian leadership should see the strategic and economic benefits of sharing common european values instead of being in the same boat as putin, lukashenko or nazarbayev. at the same time, europe must do everything to keep the door open for ukraine. besides strategic interests, the ukraine offers enormous opportunities for the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, as everybody expected, this was a fascinating debate. let me make three short remarks, and then two remarks which i hope members would agree with me are substantive remarks, first, i do not want anyone here feeling that our talking so much about selective justice means that this is the only thing which defines our relationship with ukraine. let me make it absolutely clear that this is a very comprehensive relationship, and the recent summit at the end of february made the point that there is no area of cooperation in which we would not pursue very intensive cooperation with ukraine. second, no one is delaying anything, and definitely not the association agreement or the dcfta. in december, the foreign ministers made a clear kind of roadmap to lead us to the vilnius summit, including certain conditions to be fulfilled in order to create the right framework for signing this extremely important and innovative agreement and, in parallel, the commission is working on the text and i expect that in early spring we will be able to send it to the council with the respective request and recommendation. thirdly, let me also make this very clear: this is not an fta and we are not just in a geostrategic kind of treaty. by the way, with the new neighbourhood policy that this house so much supported, i thought that this purely geostrategic point of view, or realpolitik, of trying to keep aside values and the interests, was over. i do hope those times are past. in the case of ukraine, what we are concluding is a treaty about not only the protocol association but also economic integration; a treaty which brings the ukraine much closer to the european union gradually accepting ukraine into the eu single market. that is what the dcfta is offering. i do not know of any exception or addition to enlargement, or any other policy which would as effectively strengthen the european union in our partner countries as this association agreement/dcfta. it is an agreement on shared responsibility based on shared values. let me make those two more substantive remarks. first, those of you who have witnessed the transformation of central europe would recall that it took a couple of years and quite an effort. they might have started at the same time, but there are two differences. there was a light at the end of the tunnel for central europe. nato membership and european union membership were there, clearly defined, and for the citizens of those countries, for the politicians, it was easier to explain that some of the reform steps were worth undertaking because of that goal ahead. that is number one. number two: do not underestimate the difference between being part of the socialist camp and being part of the soviet union. you have a different starting point. what i am trying to say is, it is no wonder if what took a couple of years for the countries in central europe, where we defined that goal quite clearly at the very beginning, is going to take longer for the countries and regions of eastern europe. we have to be aware of that. it should not take anything away from our willingness to engage and to help, it should not take anything away from our expectations as to values and principles. absolutely not. but please be aware of those things. now let me also make the following point: we have been talking a lot about the need for the transformation of eastern europe to complete this project of a united, prosperous and stable europe. this year, at the vilnius summit, we have the opportunity not only to talk about it but to deliver on it. the signing of the association agreement by ukraine and, hopefully, the announcement of the finalisation of the negotiation of the association agreement and dcfta with three other partners from eastern europe are going to be the first, very concrete steps in transforming this post-soviet region – and this is a big thing. second remark: there should be no doubts about our interest in signing the association agreement. this agreement has been negotiated within a couple of years and it provides added value for the citizens of both ukraine and the european union. but there has been one thing which we have been repeating for years, now. i can say that: for years. three years ago, we said clearly to the ukrainians that, in pursuing that goal of political association and economic integration and also ensuring the mobility of their people through visa-free access to the schengen countries: we will engage with you, we will be active, we will be forthcoming, we will be supportive, we will be creative, we will be flexible, we will be helpful. but we made one thing clear. there is one area where there is going to be no flexibility. this one area where we will not be making compromises is the shared values and the shared principles. they are the very basis of this agreement and what else would you expect from countries with such an open and clear european aspiration, which i hope this house also respects? that does not take away anything from what i said in my statement at the beginning, where i so extensively talked about the issue of selective justice.
in writing. – ukraine is, and will continue to be, a crucial actor for the future of european integration. without this country becoming part of the european community of rule of law, one cannot be sure about the final end of the historic enterprise, started in 1950. therefore, the eu has to make sure there is a genuine political wish to engage ukraine on the path towards comprehensive european integration. the orange revolution left the ukrainians hesitant about the real attitude of the european union, which continued to keep a distance, avoiding any indications of such a genuine political wish. at the moment, ukraine has been left fluctuating between the eu and russia. negotiations with russia – which is advancing with new vigour and determination the formation of a eurasian union – continue on the special treatment of ukraine. as the eu should be clear in its political commitments, the ukrainians need to make their historic political choice without further delay. surely, this has to be conditional on real, tangible progress. to demonstrate their political commitment, the tymoshenko case should be reviewed at once. the latter gesture could become a key for signing the paa without further delay. this would also send the people of ukraine a genuine sign that ukraine is welcome.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, relations with non-democratic regimes are always tough. however, there is a wide range of topics where we have a constructive dialogue with china. china has undergone an immense change in the past decades, which is financially illustrated by the overwhelming increase in the quality of life for many chinese. at the same time, many issues still remain unsolved, and some have tragically escalated. the repressive policies against tibetans’ basic freedoms have caused a wave of grievous self-immolations. this house has shown solidarity with the tibetan community, and has repeatedly asked the commission to address the issue, especially during the eu-china summits, at which it has done so. involving the tibetan minority communities in governance as well as respecting and supporting multiculturalism needs to be the way forward in china. another obstacle has been the escalating conflict in the east china sea, where the only solution is for the affected parties to agree on the joint exploitation of the region’s natural resources. this has been envisaged in the peace initiative drafted by the president of taiwan. finally, i would like to stress the need to strengthen our current dialogue with china, especially in the field of human rights.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it important to find the best compromise on a complex and important issue such as direct payments to farmers, where member states, farmers, environmentalists and small and large landowners all have their own different interests. i voted in the same way as my colleagues in the group on most issues, but for amendment no 28, for example, i followed the recommendations of the estonian nature fund concerning the addition of animal burden in order to reduce the use of cap funds to support green crushing. i also supported, unlike my alde group, amendment no 139 by mrs sandra kalniete, which would have set the level of direct payments to agriculture in the baltic states at at least 55% of the average level in the member states in 2014 and 75% in 2019. according to parliament's original proposal, our contributions would have been only 65% of the average for the years 2017-2020. i also considered it important to introduce a system of subsidies for large landowners, which is why i voted against amendments nos 198, 130 and 42 and supported amendments nos 105vo and 41. i hope that the tripartite negotiations between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission will lead to an agreement which takes due account of the views of the european parliament and is based on a sustainable agricultural policy and equal treatment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. long-term planning of the eu energy policy is a must in order to reach a sustainable energy supply and biggest possible energy independence. the key to achieving this is european interconnectedness. we have to eliminate energy islands without delay to ensure that europe is not vulnerable to energy supply cuts by third partners. i welcome the pragmatic approach in the report calling on respecting the climate targets whilst emphasising the importance of energy security. we also need to maintain the european diversity in energy production and build on regional particularities, such as using solar energy in the south, wind in the north. member states should be encouraged to refine their existing experience in winning energy from different sources (such as oil shale, possibly shale gas in the future). incentives could be provided to support the needed environment protection measures in some cases. investments in research and innovation must be raised to explore additional possibilities for new energies. europe needs to become self-subsistent as much as possible to ensure energy security and sustainability.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the eu-china strategic partnership is based on shared interests and mutual understanding, so it should also include full respect for human rights. no tangible results have been achieved in the human rights dialogue. providing the eeas delegation in beijing with a mandate to speak with one voice on behalf of the eu would strengthen the eu position in the human rights dialogue and support eu interests in other fields like trade. the socio-economic situation of tibet and xinjiang is worsening dramatically. for the new chinese leadership to prevent further social and national unrest, we strongly suggest giving genuine autonomy to these regions. i welcome the amendment by the rapporteur to change the reference to falun gong to that of a religious group. it is one of most cruelly persecuted movements in china, with thousands of falun gong practitioners having been arrested, their organs harvested and sold to foreigners. i call upon the eu to be very strict on the persecution of any religious groups, paying special attention to inhuman treatment and forced abortions. on the basis of the new eu cyber-security strategy, i call upon the eu to stand up for free cyberspace and to demand that china immediately end internet censorship.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to convey our sincerest condolences to the iraqi turkmen families who have lost their loved ones in the horrific attacks that have taken place in recent months. despite promising to protect the rights of the turkmen and other minorities, iraq has not done so. last year iraq was rated as the fourth most dangerous country in the world for minorities. the iraqi government must immediately implement and guarantee fundamental human rights for all ethnic and religious communities by strengthening its democratic institutions and the rule of the law. work needs to proceed towards the national reconciliation of an extremely fragmented society.
in writing. i did not support the adoption of this report in its current form, supporting amendment no 20 to refer the report back to the environment committee of the parliament for discussion and amendment, as the ets needs more thorough reform. i also disagreed with proposals to artificially increase the price of emission allowances, which would result in a further increase in energy prices for consumers and industry. the specificity of energy use means that the poorest member states of the european union are disproportionately affected by the increase in energy prices. however, high energy prices are hampering economic growth and reducing the competitiveness of the eastern and eastern european countries in particular. of course, europe's move towards a green economy is important, but we should not, under the guise of environmental protection, further entrench economic inequalities between member states. we will not achieve the eu's environmental objectives by just another artificial price increase.
mr president, a few days ago mr dmitry medvedev, the prime minister of russia, tweeted that he respects the political will of margaret thatcher. i respect him in the timing of this speech, because we here in europe are lacking political will in addressing the issues of lack of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in russia. we should be very clear in condemning the harassment of ngos in russia. this was the first point. second, we should be very clear to demand – and not only demand but also encourage – a relaunch of the helsinki committee movements all across western europe in order to support ngos and the liberal opposition in russia. and lastly and most importantly, we need the magnitsky law in europe.
thank you very much, prime minister. mr president, i would like to thank i would like to thank the prime minister for his message of pragmatic optimism, based not on new inventions but solidly on following common rules and common values. i shall make three points, following the example of alex stubb, my former colleague here. the first is transparency. it was mentioned that one trillion euros will be lost every year in tax evasion, so we need sufficient and credible information, otherwise we do not know where we are. remember the cover of the economist last month? just when we thought it was safe, the leadership of cyprus started sinking. second is solidarity. it is a common word, but solidarity in action is a two-way alley: it needs effort and commitment on both sides and mutual trust. applying solidarity in a crisis should generate extra commitment for serious reforms. and, once again, we need information about our real situation. are we going to bicker about available money or make serious efforts to generate more money through reforms? are we approaching a critical moment when the number of those who preferred to vote for more money will exceed the number of those who work for more money? the third point is the democratic situation. we need more people to have results. i would like to end by quoting margaret thatcher, who said that facts are there not to be surrendered to; they are there to be changed by politicians. or rather, by statesmen and stateswomen like margaret thatcher.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. strengthening enisa’s role and its capacity to act to protect critical european information and infrastructure is crucial. this report extends enisa’s role in coordinating the certs, building better links with national data and privacy protection authorities (i.e. including the europol cyber-crime centre). it facilitates greater international cooperation and provides enisa with space for its own initiatives. what we have to keep in mind is the added value of enisa. in times where both european and national budgets face serious cuts, the role of coordinating and supporting european agencies becomes central. enisa has great potential in assisting and supporting member states actions, gathering relevant information and providing answers/solutions to imminent issues stemming from their analysis. special emphasis should be placed on enisa’s role in supporting and assisting member states to develop their national cyber security strategies, which are still missing in more than half of the states. i welcome the fact that the report has proposed measures to ensure that the effective functioning of enisa will be reviewed in the shortest time possible. cyber space necessitates flexibility and the ability to act and react immediately. this can only be guaranteed if the structural set-up supports it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion today, which called for the partial rejection of the suspension of auctioning of allowances, as it would significantly reduce the credibility of the allowance trading system. the current low prices for allowances are more due to the economic crisis than to the inaction of the system, and if we now artificially raise the price of allowances, it will make economic recovery even more difficult. nor can i support a higher price for allowances because it would lead to a higher electricity price and, given the increase in electricity prices in recent years, would be an additional burden for a very large number of consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of adopting the report on ground handling of aircraft today. it is an area we all deal with every week, and unfortunately there is probably no one who has not had to deal with the problems of this area. whether it's lost luggage, delayed preparation for a flight, or a delayed snow blower. i support the liberalisation of this sector and the introduction of uniform pan-european requirements to ensure better services for passengers and goods. however, i could not support the parts of the points concerning the employees and more specifically their takeover by the new service provider. these amendments are anything but respectful of the rules of competition and the market economy and do not promote the liberalisation of the sector. i am pleased to note that today's decision is a step towards establishing uniform rules and at the same time gives parliament a position for future negotiations with the council.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of a report on equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services. i believe that we were unable to discuss this issue in greater depth in parliament because the european commission did not report on the implementation of the relevant directive adopted in 2004 and did not publish relevant data on the implementation processes in place in the member states. however, it would have been very important to have done so, since the directive is the first piece of legislation to deal with the promotion of gender equality outside the fields of employment and working life. for example, the use of sex-related actuarial factors in the provision of insurance and other related financial services is widespread. i hope that the report adopted will be an impetus for the european commission to report to parliament on the operation of the directive.
in writing. one small island nation cyprus the final phase of the bank rescue leaves only a mitigated threat. while i understand the motives of the president of the eurogroup, jeroen dijsselbloem, i nevertheless stress the need to respect the fundamental agreements, more specifically the commitment to guarantee deposits up to eur 100 000. because adherence to these fundamental truths shows that commitment to the single currency is more than a mere word.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i will speak in estonian in order to show some solidarity with the many finno-ugric and arctic peoples. kuud tagasi, 2010. aasta märtsis rääkisin ma siinsamas plenaaristungil selsamal teemal. kutsusin euroopa komisjoni, keda esindas kõrge esindaja catherine ashton, üles ilmutama rohket idealismi ning esinema rahvusvahelise kogukonna ees ettepanekuga, mille sihiks maavarade kaevandamise moratoorium arktikas. eeskujuks tõin antarktika lepingud. loomulikult soovitasid nii kõrge esindaja kui ka paljud kolleegid siin parlamendis mulle rohkemat realismi. ausalt öeldes, ega ma ei arvanudki, et komisjonis leiduks idealismi, oli lihtsalt minu kohus seda nõuda. täna pean ma kurvastusega nentima, et komisjon pole üles näidanud ka oma paljukiidetud realismi ja pragmatismi. kuidas muidu oleksime olukorras, kus komisjon ise ei taha midagi kuulda oma 2008. aastal väljapakutud 48 tegevuspunktist? ei pea olema ühendkuningriigi või mõne teise riigi euroskeptik, et teada, et iga kord, kui on probleem, leiutab komisjon institutsiooni, olgu see siis pangandusjärelevalve asutus või euroopa narkoseire agentuur. aga kas meil on õnnestunud luua midagi arktika jaoks? on meil selleks olemas konkreetne eelarverida? ei ole. komisjon on isegi tegelikult vähendanud eelarveraha järgmises finantsperspektiivis nende numbrite osas, millest volinik füle rääkis, tervelt 12%. kuu aja pärast soovime saada arktika nõukogu alaliseks vaatlejaks, kuid kas euroopa välisteenistuses on palgatud selle poliitika jaoks spetsialiste? ei ole. sellega tahan ma öelda, et me pole ise valmis võimaluseks hakata tööle arktika nõukogus, aga peaksime olema, sest on üha selgem, et näiteks kliimamuutuse takistamiseks või realistlikumalt kliimamuutusega toimetulemiseks vajab maailm rahvusvahelist arktika valitsemist. on tarvis globaalset kokkulepet selle kohta, millistel tingimustel ja milliseid keskkonnastandardeid järgides oleks ülepea võimalik maavarade geoloogiline uurimine. kas üldse ja kui, siis millistel tingimustel maavarasid kaevandada? missugune saab olema relvajõudude paigutus ja kasutus arktikas, sest laevaliikluse arenedes tuleb neid kasutada niikuinii. teistel kellelgi ei ole sealses piirkonnas vastavat päästevõimsust. ma tean, et enamus siin saalis ei toeta arktika unikaalseks looduskaitsealaks kuulutamist, aga ma siiski teen sellise ettepaneku, tuues näite eesti arktika ajaloost. võrumaal üles kasvanud ferdinand von wrangell on andnud nime ühele saarele põhja-jäämeres, kuigi ta ise kunagi sellele saarele ei jõudnud. tema pühendumust arktika uurimisel hinnati nii kõrgelt, et 45 aastat hiljem saarele purjetanud usa kapten tegi ettepaneku selle saare tema nimega nimetada. tänapäeval on saarel looduskaitseala, kus on keelatud igasugune majandustegevus, välja arvatud põlisrahvaste oma, ja selle kehtestas nõukogude liit 1976. aastal ja kinnitas peaminister medvedev eelmise aasta detsembris. kui nemad mõistavad nende sammude vajadust, mis siis segab meid – ainult vähene idealism ja puuduv pragmatism komisjonis.
in writing. – from my own experience, as one of the initiators of the estonian citizens’ movement that led to the change from a totalitarian communist system to a democratic one, i only can applaud the idea of a european citizens’ initiative (eci). nevertheless, i am concerned about the unnecessary bureaucratic burden and limited scope that the eci is facing. i understand the concerns regarding privacy and data protection when it comes to online signature gathering. but asking organisers of a citizens’ initiative to go through an extensive, costly and very time-consuming procedure of creating an online signature collecting portal and certifying it in each member state separately, falling under different rules, is an unnecessary complication. i call upon the commission to find a solution to this and to propose a change respectively to the regulation. introducing an eu-wide digital signature would eliminate such a problem immediately. secondly, the eci is content-wise limited to the areas where the eu has legislative power. i suggest reviewing this too and opening it up to more topics – considering that the commission has the right to come up also with non-legislative initiatives. we have to give european citizens too the possibility of bringing other issues important to them onto the european agenda.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament's recommendation on visa facilitation between the european community and ukraine, considering the importance of ukraine's integration with europe and the development of its civil society. the simplification of visa procedures for representatives of civil society organisations, journalists and participants in international conferences is certainly essential for achieving these objectives. of course, ukraine still has a lot to do in developing its civil society and in affirming european values, but i also do not think it is right that some of my colleagues want to link the simplification of visa conditions with a homophobic ukrainian parliamentarian bill, the procedure for which has just begun. the initiation of the procedure does not yet mean the entry into force of the law, especially since it is contrary to the law on the prevention and combating of discrimination of ukraine of 2012. we should not punish ordinary ukrainians who want to travel to the european union and learn from our experience.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. the report on the scrapping of old ships which was voted on today should have been debated in plenary, not just voted on. the report proposes a new tax to create a demolition fund to help improve environmental compliance in ship demolition. i support the dismantling of ships under environmentally friendly and humane conditions, but unfortunately the current situation cannot be solved simply by introducing a new tax without a thorough analysis. the analysis carried out by the environment committee itself, while supporting the introduction of a new tax, leaves several important questions unanswered and is therefore not sufficient to make such a significant decision. i supported the adoption of this report and the introduction of more precise conditions for the use of hazardous metals and materials, but i did not support the amendments which provided for the introduction of a new tax. i also supported amendment no 120, which calls on the commission to carry out a thorough analysis of the introduction of the necessary tax and its impact on the european maritime sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. croatia’s accession to eu is long overdue. despite a few remaining matters over the last few years, croatia has been ready for quite some time. the current government has an obligation to engage in close dialogue with its citizens about eu and european idea. it is regrettable that the first ep elections in croatia suffered a low turn-out whereas there was an opportunity to link them with local elections. the argument that then the european message would have been completely lost is a controversy in itself as european goes local and local goes european. i hope that in forth coming months the government makes true effort to explain the facts about eu, especially considering that the media has spread partly false information and thus generated mistrust among citizens. every accession is another example of the best success story of europe – peaceful reunification of europe. for that matter, also reconciliation with own history is crucial; i call upon the croatian government to dedicate both means and attention to a non-partisan reconciliation process. croatia’s accession should also pave the way for the other western-balkan countries, especially macedonia who has been waiting for the negotiations to start for the last five years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. every year we vote upon turkey’s progress report and address similar issues. media remains biased and the situation of freedom of expression and belief face occasional declines that cannot be tolerated by the european side. conducting reforms and adopting new laws in compliance with eu requirements is only the first step where an intensive and serious implementation period needs to follow. the fourth judicial reform package is in the process; now we need to see tangible results ensuring compliance with european and international standards, ensuring especially judicial impartiality. i welcome the recent steps towards starting to build peace between turkish authorities and kurdish rebels in hope that the progress continues in peaceful manner. if we see further success this process could serve as example of reconciliation in the region after so many years of violent clashes. whereas any violence is to be condemned by the kurdish side, the turkish authorities need to ensure that economic and social development is reaching also the kurdish minority. the most alarming sign from turkish side has been the boycotting of an eu member state, cyprus, in its period of eu presidency. this is not compatible with european spirit or values.
in writing. − i believe that serbia should be invited to join the european council next june. the current negotiations with kosovo are important for reaching an agreement on the issue of the serbs in northern kosovo and for both countries to move forward in a european direction. serbia is to conclude a stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo. serbia must do its homework to ensure the development of the rule of law. i would like to stress the need to combat extremism, homophobia and (football) hooliganism at national level and to guarantee media freedom.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur mrs oomen-ruijten and her shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation and for endorsing the main message of the white paper. when we presented the white paper in february 2012 we aimed to show how to ensure, against the background – rightly mentioned by mrs oomen-ruijten – of ageing populations and fiscal constraints, that our pension systems remain both sustainable and capable of providing retired citizens with a decent income. the white paper outlines how this can be achieved by balancing time spent in work and retirement and by saving more in supplementary pensions. the proposed agenda builds on previous consultations with parliament, member states and stakeholders. it made an essential contribution to the 2012 european year of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity. i welcome the report’s call on the member states to thoroughly evaluate the potential reforms, taking into account changing life expectations so as to guarantee a decent living standard and economic independence for people in old age. i also welcome parliament’s agreement that it is necessary to build up complementary occupational pensions and to ensure that these are designed in such a way as not to hamper mobility on the labour market. i note the concerns expressed in the report about safeguarding the importance of first pillar public pensions. i would like to assure you that the commission believes, as outlined in the pensions adequacy report published in 2012, that first pillar public pensions should and will remain the main source of old age income in the foreseeable future. since the publication of the white paper last february we have achieved good progress in this implementation. in particular the messages of the white paper have been strongly reiterated in the european semester’s country-specific recommendations. today the majority of member states have adopted reforms which enable and encourage men and women to work longer. the thrust of mrs oomen-ruijten’s report equally confirms that there is a shared political will to face up to the challenges that our pension systems are facing and take relevant steps to safeguard their future. however, to achieve the twin goals of adequacy and sustainability, ambitious and sustained efforts are required on the part of all the actors: the member states, the eu institutions, social partners and stakeholders.
in writing. pensions are under pressure in all eu countries. governments are introducing new policies, and the population is ageing in all member states and life expectancy is rising. member states using a system based on rolling funding are particularly vulnerable to the financing of adequate pensions. although decreasing, the crisis has also put pressure on the so-called second pillar systems. while the first pillar is based on solidarity between taxpayers, the second pillar consists largely of supplementary employer pensions or, in this case, of additional payments by the state to employees. there is still much to be done to reduce the pressure on public budgets and to increase the importance of collective supplementary pensions. pillar ii pension funds are important investors in financial markets. however, the crisis has shown that financial institutions are particularly sensitive to economic downturns. it is positive that the commission, in its desire to strengthen the supervision of pension funds, has decided to review the pillar ii single reserves directive. given that the member states primarily responsible for pension systems and european pension systems have historically evolved differently, the open method of coordination can learn from each other's experience in risk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the basic principle of completing the internal market should apply to all areas, and this report presents constructive and positive recommendations on how to apply the internal market also in the field of renewable energy. promotion of renewable energies and their use should not put in danger food security and agricultural competitiveness. we should also make sure that consumers are not overly burdened with costs in this regard. i believe that an integrated and competitive energy market will reduce energy costs and boost economies and innovation. europe needs the internal market to be completed in every aspect without delay, while energy is of great strategic importance. europe will not be safe and secure as long as there continue to exist isolated energy islands and energy supplies depend mainly on national borders, grids and rigid long-term bilateral agreements. this has placed us in a vulnerable situation that it is impossible and risky to tolerate any further. i call upon member states to cooperate better. although they have to ensure the interests of their citizens and businesses, there is an urgent need to think larger. after all, national interests are best protected in an energy-interconnected europe – the best guarantee against unexpected turbulence and energy shortages.
in writing. − the committee on women's rights and gender equality, of which i am a member, produced its last report on women's rights and gender equality in the balkan accession countries in 2008. most western balkan countries have since made progress towards eu accession, albeit at different rates. croatia is almost ready to join, montenegro has started negotiations, serbia and macedonia have become candidate countries, and albania, bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo are moving at different speeds towards the next stages of accession. despite the adoption of the necessary legislation, the implementation of rights in the area of women's rights and gender equality is not yet at a satisfactory level to be effectively relied upon by women. i supported the report because of its diversity and the need to address the difficult situation of women in the balkan countries, where women are underrepresented both in the labour market and in economic and political decision-making. it is extremely positive that this report does not only comment on the region as a whole, but also addresses each country individually, paying particular attention to the implementation mechanisms of the countries negotiating accession in relation to women's rights and gender equality in general.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. in today's vote, i supported the adoption of a resolution on an action plan for an adequate, secure and sustainable pension. while social policy is a matter for each member state to regulate at national level, we cannot ignore the fact that excessive inequality creates problems and tensions in society. i fully support the view that the national first step must ensure minimum decent living conditions and be fully financed from public funds. i very much welcome the principle expressed in the resolution that the second pillar of pensions must be based on three parties and that the employer must be involved, not just the worker and the state. as regards the third pillar, i still believe that it should be a matter of individual choice and thus also be based on individual savings. i sincerely hope that the principles of the resolution adopted today will also find their way into national laws and practice.
mr president, the commission’s proposal for a single supervisory mechanism is yet another big step forward towards regaining confidence in our banking sector by improving the quality and impartiality of supervision and making it possible to recapitalise banks directly via the esm. it derives from economic rationality: having a single market and a common currency, it is necessary to have common supervision. at the same time many questions regarding the proposals remain unclear. maybe the most important of these is the involvement and representation of the non-euro member states. i agree that they should be able to join and participate, but at the same time they should demonstrate a strong commitment when joining the ssm. unlike president barroso, i do not see the ssm as moving towards a ‘federation of nation states’, but rather as a financial body which ensures that everybody plays by the same rules.
in writing. a more federal europe sometimes seems as abstract as the debate on the colour of love. i believe that greater federalism is the way to maintain stability in europe and that this requires real policy, step by step. let's hope for a banking union. i do not think that a single monetary union is possible without a single banking union. these are activities that harmoniously support each other. it is our job as politicians to do our best to make the banking union a reality as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. today almost everyone agrees that tax evasion constitutes a grave problem to the european economy and morals. it is estimated that europe’s annual lost tax revenue amounts to 1 trillion euros – about 2 000 euros lost per citizen every year. it is clear that determined action is needed, including close cooperation between member states to track and control cross-border tax fraud. the eu should coordinate, monitor and assist. the report calls for more staff and stricter control over tax revenues. although i agree with the principle, i think we are starting from the wrong end. the first task is to simplify the eu’s tax systems and ensure that neither individuals nor businesses, especially sme-s, would be burdened with the additional challenge of understanding and complying with highly complicated tax systems. while paying taxes remains a personal responsibility, the eu has to ensure better capacity to do so. electronic tax declarations would be a start, providing for fast processing by the state. in estonia, the flat tax has for the last 20 years proven to be an easily understandable, transparent and efficient system. why not head in this direction?
in writing. − europe's current fiscal deficit is a threat to the eu's social model, not to mention the resources needed to boost employment during the current economic crisis. in short, an estimated €1 billion is lost in the eu each year due to tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. i agree with the view that the use of tax avoidance practices by multinational companies is contrary to the principles of fair competition and corporate social responsibility and that unilateral national measures have often proved insufficient, which calls for a coordinated approach at eu level. i therefore support the view that eu member states need a common platform for the exchange of tax information and a tax system that supports economic development. we need companies to pay taxes in the country where they make their profits and not transfer profits to the country where the taxes are the lowest. in order to reduce the eu's fiscal deficit by 2020, it is necessary to establish a clear and defined blacklist of european tax havens and to exclude both eu subsidies and state aid to tax evaders. as regards the foreign account tax compliance act (fatca), it is a first important step towards the exchange of information between the eu and the us in the fight against cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion, but it must not be overlooked in respect of the data protection rights of eu citizens. i believe that the report i supported has the potential to improve cooperation between eu member states on many levels and to reduce the annual fiscal deficit.
in writing. - this week we have a number of topics on the agenda which are most directly related to the common market and its development, such as the report on the banking union and the taxation report which has just been voted on. i cannot imagine the real development of the common market without progress on tax harmonization. this is an important element and i think it is sensible to integrate the eu fiscal deficit theme into the annual national stability and growth programmes and reform plans.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, to which the discussions in the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality have made a major contribution. it is essential that a person who has been granted protection in one member state does not lose it when moving to another member state, both when travelling and when moving to live in another member state. a prohibition on access in one member state must be interpretable in the other, that is to say, it must cover not only the countries where the criminal courts issue the prohibition but also those where they are subject to the jurisdiction of the civil courts. in order to draw attention to the situation of victims of gender-based violence, i welcome the proposal to train officials who are likely to be confronted with cases where the physical, psychological and sexual integrity of a person is at risk, and in particular cases of violence against women, to better meet their needs. it is clear that women victims need more support in the member states and this needs to be done in cooperation between member states and ngos.
in writing. – for two years we have argued whether to give the opponents of the assad regime weapons or not, and if so, then to whom and how. at the same time our so-called strategic partner russia has no hesitation in providing weapons to the regime that murders its citizens by the thousands. if france as a state cannot do anything about syria, if the eu as a whole cannot do anything about syria without the help of nato, the least that could be done is to end the contract between france and russia to sell mistral class assault ships to putin’s government. ceterum censeo; how many times do i have to say the sale of mistrals to russia was a serious mistake?
madam president, this is the fourth year that the council has not been able to follow the commission’s recommendation and open accession negotiations with macedonia. i think this is also about the credibility of the european union living up to is own high ideals of a united european family. that is why we also call in this report for the commission to prepare an assessment of the costs of non-enlargement, because there are major risks for a nation that has mobilised itself over several years to satisfy the criteria of the eu and has made progress in 75% of policy areas and then finds itself left aside time and time again. this is at a time when everyone is concerned about the decrease of popular support for the eu. the eu’s inability to reach a consensus about a new member can demobilise support where it is still high. while macedonia has succeeded in maintaining macroeconomic stability, the internal political stability has become shaky and we commend the commissioner, the rapporteur and mr buzek in helping to achieve a national agreement and restore political life. much remains to be done, but it is important for all stakeholders to realise that only macedonia’s membership of the eu will provide the best conditions to solve the different historic and cultural problems to the mutual satisfaction of all interested parties. the current year will be decisive for a breakthrough. tomorrow will send a strong message that parliament is not prepared for further delays. macedonia clearly deserves its chance.
in writing. – an eu-us free trade agreement would constitute the most important free trade agreement in the world. it is a historic opportunity to join the forces of the two world’s biggest economic potentials. it is in all of our interests, and if we do not do it now, the us will be forced to look elsewhere. also, if the eu and the us fail to agree, in ten years’ time, other emerging economic powers will set the agenda based on different values that will not necessarily be democratic and open to the mutual benefit of the partners. therefore it is absolutely crucial to make a serious start with a strong determination to bring these historic negotiations to a successful finish. and to trust our transatlantic counterpart, we need to talk about everything; the decisions, on the other hand, need to take into account our european interest. the one does not exclude the other. free trade is not about a defensive strategy, it is about reaching a win-win result. if we do not even try to address and discuss controversial topics, there remains little hope to progress far on other issues. we can see how such an attitude to make exemptions and create barriers has still not made it possible to complete the eu single market.
in writing. − i supported the eu-us trade negotiating positions, as this comprehensive agreement would help to provide a significant stimulus to the economy of the european union and the north atlantic region as a whole. the united states is, however, quite similar to europe in terms of culture and economy, and the better management of the east and west coasts of the north atlantic is directly linked to each other. an ambitious eu-us free trade agreement would be a historic and highly significant event, creating together the world's largest free trade area. despite the possible positive outcome of the agreement, we must not repeat the mistakes of acta, where members of the european parliament were not kept sufficiently informed of the progress of the negotiations and several negative circumstances emerged. of course, we must also protect europe's cultural and linguistic diversity and the interests of europeans as a whole, but we should not take a hard line at the very beginning of trade negotiations.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, our relations with india have intensified over the years as india tries to find its role as a serious global partner. we must admit that the human rights situation in india has greatly improved in recent years, but still some serious issues remain unresolved. as democratic principles are gaining a foothold in society, india needs to work hard to set a positive example in an unstable and fractious region. therefore, it is highly regrettable that india has decided to end its unofficial moratorium on the death penalty that had lasted eight years. this is a big step away from the humane values which we in the liberal and democratic group, and in the european union, consider limitless and universal. in addition, i would like to convey my serious concerns regarding the fairness and the impartiality of the judicial system in india. i hope the indian government will do its utmost to remedy the situation. finally, i would like to call on the government of india, as a matter of urgency, not to approve any execution orders in the future.
mr president, i was moved when reading mr salvatore iacolino’s report on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. he is correct in pointing out the need for a europe-wide code of ethics for political parties and their funding, and on the need to outlaw vote-buying. unfortunately, it is my duty to inform this chamber that we have in estonia a political party that not only buys votes, but also manipulates elections. for a decade now, its finances have included a significant share of unaccounted or anonymous money. it is not only the reform party – the centre party also excels in such practices. both these parties were created and are still governed by former nomenklatura communists. however, they have camouflaged their parties as liberals and have a seat in the alde group. i would ask mr verhofstadt and other respectable liberals to consider the option of expelling those parties from membership of their political alliance. that would give european citizens the feeling that crime has no place in the political party system.
in writing. i support the commission's draft guidelines on regional aid for 2014-2020, which is an integral part of the state aid modernisation programme. regional aid can only play an effective role if it is used in a sustainable and proportionate way and if it is focused on the most disadvantaged regions of the eu, where the need for regional aid is greatest. state aid and cohesion policy are largely complementary and mutually reinforcing. it is therefore important that the modernisation of state aid is in line with the amendments to the general regulation on the structural funds. in view of the problem identified by the commission with regard to large companies, i consider that their exclusion from the state aid rules is not justified, especially in view of their contribution to employment. large enterprises also subcontract a large number of smes and contribute significantly to research and development. i hope that the commission will considerably facilitate access to state aid for smes in the most disadvantaged regions, as they make a significant contribution to regional development.
in writing. given the continuing economic and social crisis in europe, the european aid fund is essential for the most deprived. i consider it important that the european aid fund should not be reduced, as the number of people in need of assistance is unfortunately still very high: more than 40 million europeans are at risk of severe material deprivation, four million are at risk of homelessness and almost 120 million are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. as regards the compulsory participation of the member states in the european aid fund, its accession should be voluntary, since the situation in each member state is not so serious and many already have different measures to assist those in need. several member state governments have explicitly expressed their negative attitude towards the fund. however, since the majority of members of the european parliament decided to support the proposal to make participation in the fund compulsory for all member states, i decided to remain neutral. the european aid fund is certainly essential, but we cannot force member states to participate if they do not want to and punish them by 'freezing' the funds. as the final vote on the resolution was postponed to open informal negotiations with the council of the eu, i hope that the negotiations will nevertheless find a reasonable compromise on the budget and voluntariness of the european aid fund and, most importantly, that aid reaches the people who need it.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it important to improve food safety and consumer awareness through better and simpler legislation. it is a pleasure to note that the tripartite negotiations (between the european parliament, the european commission and the council of the eu) have reached a compromise that takes account of all parties, converting obsolete and complex legislation in force since 1977 into a single clear regulation. as a social liberal, i believe that in addition to protecting consumers, it is important to make things easier for businesses by creating fair conditions of competition and allowing the free movement of special foods within the european union. a renewed and simplified legislation will certainly also mean better governance for stakeholders and member states and will achieve the objectives set more effectively.
in writing. − i do not share the view of many colleagues that social housing policy is a purely local government issue and should not be addressed. i would remind you that access to housing is a fundamental human right and that the european parliament is one of the watchdogs of the implementation of the fundamental rights of europe. i therefore also supported this report, which also focuses on the availability of social housing at european level, despite the fact that social housing policies are organised quite differently in the member states. as deputy rapporteur for the opinion of the european parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality, i consider it very important to ensure that the social dimension is given priority to single mothers, given that there are seven times as many single mothers in europe and that single mothers have suffered the most as a result of the financial and economic crisis. of course, people need social housing at rental prices that are in reality much lower than market prices, otherwise there is no social housing and there is no real benefit for those in need.
in writing. − as the spokesperson for my group, i supported the adoption of the report on the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on the own-initiative report, in order to pay greater attention to the need to increase the educational and occupational mobility of women. the latter is particularly important given the fact that the economic situation of women has deteriorated significantly as a result of the economic crisis and the high unemployment rate has increased the need to adapt vocational choice to the labour market offer and to improve women's adaptability in choosing a new profession. i believe that increasing the educational and labour mobility of women will also help to achieve the main objective of the europe 2020 strategy to increase the employment rate of women aged 20-64 to 75%, and this through the increased participation of young people through the implementation of the youth employment package, the youth guarantees, in particular in the context of the 'your first eures job' initiative.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. in today's vote i supported the adoption of the report on the strategy for electronic tax collection and the issue of a system for the charging of small cars in private use. the rapporteur is unfortunately right that the current systems for collecting tolls vary widely between member states. i agree that the member state has the right to decide on the collection of the road fee and its amount, but it must be ensured that it is simple and understandable and does not discriminate against road users from other member states. i support the rapporteur's approach that all the necessary information should be available online and that technological developments should also be taken into account. in the area of taxation, mobile payments must also be made possible. i believe that the commission must act more boldly and decisively to ensure a more level playing field and thus to promote the functioning of the single market. unfortunately, without concrete action by the commission, progress in this area is impossible.
mr president, the financial discipline proposal was created to ensure that obligations in regard to direct payments for every year are fully respected. unfortunately, the commission has gone further and is now asking for the market crisis reserve to be composed from the cap budget. the near 5 % reduction in direct payments to farmers receiving more than eur 5 000 would give an overall reduction of nearly eur 1.5 billion. that is almost double the amount that the commission was looking to cover initially. i understand that it is looking to cut as much as possible from every budget line, but this time the commission has gone too far. i would like to call on colleagues to support the rapporteur and the commission’s initial proposal to cut the payments by 0.7% and include only those farmers receiving more than eur 5 000. i do not disagree with the market crisis reserve, but it should be composed from different funds.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank mr cohn-bendit for this question on a very important matter. my practice is always first to establish the facts, and i have had to do this because this was not a commission decision. i was at the dutch parliament yesterday – i had a full day in the hague – and this morning i was preparing for this very important debate on the european council, so i am only able to give you a very preliminary response at this point in time, in full respect of the evolving european democracy and the european parliament. the commission has taken note of the decision by the greek authorities to close down ert, the hellenic broadcasting corporation, which is a decision taken in full autonomy by the greek government. the commission did not seek the closure of ert, but nor does the commission question the greek government’s mandate to manage the public sector in greece. the greek authorities’ decision was taken in the context of the major efforts that they are making to modernise the greek economy. the commission understands the difficult situation of ert staff and we expect that the announced dismissals will be carried out in full accordance with the applicable legal framework. the commission supports the role of public broadcasting as an integral part of european democracy. the amsterdam protocol makes it clear that governance and strategic choices on public service broadcasting lie with the member states. so, while the commission cannot prescribe how member states should organise their public service broadcasters, we would like to underline the role of public service broadcasters regarding european values in all economic circumstances. greece, like all european countries, needs media pluralism, media freedom and media quality. we welcome the commitment of the greek government to launch a media actor that fulfils the important role of public broadcasting and is financially sustainable.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable commissioners, i am very grateful to everybody who has participated in this debate. i have taken good note of and have listened carefully to all of the different comments that have been made. as this is my last time of having the pleasure of addressing parliament on behalf of the council, i would like to convey my thanks to you, as a parliament, for the very intense ... (loud applause from the floor)i would like to thank you for the very intense and the hugely productive engagement that we have enjoyed over the last six months and in this, of course, i would like to include the many plenary meetings in relation to which i would like to thank the president and all of the vice-presidents for their support, the multiple meetings in smaller formats with committees, with the conference of committee chairs, with rapporteurs, with political groups, contact groups, and so on. i would also like to put on record the presidency’s appreciation of the support that we have received from the parliamentary services and, of course, separately i would like to acknowledge the huge support that the council services have offered to me, in particular, but also to the presidency as a whole, in the discharge of our responsibilities. we are, i should stress, not at the end of our presidency just yet, there is still much that we can deliver together, but it is fitting that a presidency styled on stability, growth and jobs will effectively come to an end at a european council when the subjects for discussion are exactly those: the european semester process, emu and, in particular, banking union. while the european council is still more than two weeks away, and the preparations have yet to be finalised, the determining issue of the discussions will be how to increase our competitiveness and to stimulate growth. this is the main priority for the european union, and we therefore fully support president van rompuy in his focus on that at the european council at the end of the month. we all know that improving our competitiveness will lead to economic growth and that growth creates jobs, jobs which are badly needed. it is the only way to escape the scourge of unemployment, and particularly youth unemployment, which has been mentioned here repeatedly by members today and which saps all of the energy and dynamism from our citizens, from our populations. so that is the big challenge for all of us. a number of you today referred to the need to assist in particular young people who are not able to find a job. as i said in my opening remarks – and commissoner andor has also mentioned it – the youth guarantee scheme must be implemented rapidly. we look forward to further measures to increase labour mobility, which is also key to tackling unemployment. this is the challenge of the european union, it the challenge of our time. there are no easy solutions, but i genuinely and strongly feel that together we can and we must use all of our resources to tackle the scourge of youth unemployment. one of the aspects to this is the hugely important multiannual financial framework, and i know a number of speakers today have raised the issue of the union’s seven-year budget and the ongoing negotiations. i think many of us would agree that the most significant contribution that our institutions can make in the short term, in terms of growth and jobs, is agreement on the mff. i have to say that i do reject suggestions that europe would be somehow better off without a solid basis to budget its activities for the next seven years. i do not think that parliament genuinely believes in such a proposition or such a suggestion. i say this because, not only would it undermine the effectiveness of the very necessary programmes which we are co-legislating, but it would also send a very negative signal more widely about our union’s ability to organise our business and to deal with the challenges that have been outlined here today. i am sorry to say that the council – and indeed the presidency – has been sharply criticised here today for lack of progress in the negotiations. i reject this criticism very robustly. council has not been lacking in any way since the european council reached its agreement in february. we have not cancelled meetings or trialogues. we have proactively put forward texts and, in the light of the ongoing negotiations, we have amended texts and have put forward new texts, covering all of parliament’s four priority areas and on several other issues that parliament has introduced along the way. we have been happy to do so in the spirit of negotiation. as a presidency, we have moved extremely quickly to seek and obtain political agreement on an early draft amending budget, in response to parliament’s resolution linking the two – you will recall that i participated in the debate here on the mff and on the resolution in march. this was a very considerable move by the council, one which was not without difficulty for member states and which required careful negotiation and leadership from our presidency. on the key question of flexibility, which was raised by mr swoboda, mr daul and by many others, including president barroso himself, the council has noted the importance that parliament attaches to this issue. we are doing our best to move closer to you. importantly, we have responded. the council has offered very considerable flexibility on several fronts. most significantly, i believe, we have offered flexibility on payments, allowing the carrying forward, within limits, of unused margins to allow far greater room for manoeuvre for budget management over the lifetime of the mff. this is a hugely significant move. indeed commissioner lewandowski, the commissioner responsible for budgets, described it as a breakthrough. it is new ground for the mff and we are very proud that we are in a position to move that forward. of course this is not all that we have achieved. on the flexibility instrument, the most significant of such instruments, there is an increase of 130% and, beyond that, we have offered greater flexibility on the emergency aid reserve and on the contingency margin that has lapsed has been restored. so, all in all, there is a significant package which is being put together in response to the very legitimate demands of parliament. it is one which will allow the commission, i believe, to manage the budget more effectively for all of our benefit and indeed, most crucially, for the benefit of our citizens. i do not think that any of us should be surprised that the negotiations on the mff are tough. i think this is only to be expected. it is surely the nature of such negotiations that they present difficulties, but last night i had the pleasure, with the tánaiste, our deputy prime minister, of negotiating with the excellent european parliament team, lead by alain lamassoure and his colleagues from the contact group, and indeed commissioner lewandowski, where we went on until late in the evening. i believe we have genuine momentum in these negotiations on the mff. with goodwill on all sides we can, and we will, reach an agreement and, quite frankly, we need an agreement because of the direct translation into jobs and growth. in conclusion, i want to thank all of you for the varied and the very important contributions that you have made in this debate on the european council. i will ensure that they are conveyed to colleagues in council and, of course, to president van rompuy. once again, it has been an honour and a pleasure for me to represent the irish presidency and the council here in the chamber.
in writing. – the coming council meeting will conclude the irish presidency and move towards the lithuanian one. the eu has demonstrated progress managing the acute debt and financial crisis. on the other hand a certain fatigue can be noticed among member states who only few months ago were firmly committing to more europe, notably to stricter fiscal supervision, banking union etc. today we see loosening the grip as some governments seem to think that the need to reform is over. this loosening on rules is exactly what brought us to the crisis in the first place. i call upon the council not to give in when it comes to banking union. we need common rules and coordination to avoid collapses and domino effects. we need the single supervision to set rules and enforce those rules, also a resolution mechanism to act when needed. to regain trust with our citizens, the member states cannot give in on a euro-wide guarantee on deposits. also, the council needs to find a solution on how to include non-eurozone governments and banks in the banking union.
in writing. − in today's vote, i supported the adoption of the report on regional policy as part of wider national support schemes. regional aid is only effective if it is used in a sustainable and proportionate way and if it is focused on the most disadvantaged regions of the eu, where the need for regional aid is greatest. state aid and cohesion policy are largely complementary and mutually reinforcing. it is therefore important that the modernisation of state aid is in line with the amendments to the general regulation on the structural funds. the contribution of smes to regional development is difficult to underestimate, and it is therefore important that the new guidelines on regional aid reflect the message that the european parliament and the council wish to convey about their attitude towards the participation of smes in regional development. state aid compatible with the union's regional policy should be left to the member states and decisions on aid in these areas should be left to the national level or below. i hope that today's decision will accelerate the commission's work to make it significantly easier for smes in the most disadvantaged regions to access state aid, as they make a significant contribution to regional development.
in writing. – the functioning of the eeas has been seen by some as quite all right for an institution that is starting up and has to negotiate 27 member states’ opinions and somehow voice them all at once. i would say one voice in eu external affairs is more than needed and the eeas has a critical role in that, but there is much room for improvement and initiative. for example, arms exports and the sale of mistral warships to a country that recently invaded one of its neighbours and is publicly supplying arms to a syrian dictator. ceterum censeo, france will seriously regret the mistral warships sale to russia.
madam president, press freedom is one of the most crucial elements of a free and democratic society. unfortunately, we can still find countries all over the world where the level of press freedom is very low, for example syria, cuba, russia and china. although the states within the eu rank quite high in the statistics, we must not get too comfortable and lose the necessary freedom and pluralism that have been established. economic and political distress could lead to governments trying to portray things in a different, more suitable way. that was the case for example in turkey, last week and now, when during the riots the turkish state media were covering stories about history and nature rather than showing what was going on. governments must not fear free media but rather support them and create equal and fair conditions for all. the same applies to digital media where recent years have shown how vital the exchange of information via digital channels can become. people all over the world have understood that very well. therefore it is ever more important that we keep monitoring the freedom of the press and if necessary take action against recurring violations.
mr president, i would like to support what ms jaakonsaari has just said. we need deeper analysis of all the topics we are speaking about today because things tend to be worse than we like to think. conviction-based persecution is a growing phenomenon all over the world, and we cannot differentiate in defending different religious beliefs. however, people of christian beliefs seem to be increasingly endangered. last year, persecution of christians in about 60 countries resulted in 1 200 deaths, 2 100 cases of physical aggression and more than 1 000 arrests, with 280 churches destroyed and more than 240 closed by force. we were made keenly aware of the recent boston bomb attacks. yet in nigeria alone last year there were at least half a dozen religiously motivated deadly attacks, every one of which caused more damage than the boston bombings. we should be especially attentive to people’s right fully to exercise their freedom of religion or belief. therefore, we first need to promote the right of religion or belief as a priority in eu external policies. there is a need to mainstream this in all our relations with third countries. secondly, freedom of belief should be fostered and fully guaranteed.
madam president, i stand with those colleagues who consider the announcement of negotiations on a transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the eu and the usa to be a pivotal step towards boosting our economies. it would create an unopposed economic giant which would account for about half of the entire world’s gdp. as has already been pointed out many times, its impact would go far beyond its bilateral implications, specifically by establishing common standards and market rules. at the same time, more efforts should be taken in the field of foreign policy. i support the idea of creating a transatlantic political council, which would serve as a common consultation and coordination body led by the high representative and by the secretary of state. we have to bear in mind that our continued cooperation serves the citizens on both sides of the atlantic and plays a critical role in the security of the entire world.
madam president, i support mr millán mon’s creative approach in viewing the relations between the us and the eu in a broader context. this is not only creative, this is practical as new countries and partners are emerging in latin america and western africa. but the core of the transatlantic relations remains the same: these are mutual relations. the forthcoming negotiations will have historic importance if both transatlantic partners can achieve a comprehensive free trade agreement. this will give us a unique chance to set the world agenda for the next decades on the basis of western values and rules of conduct. if we do not take it, then there are several others who are ready to set their agenda and develop cooperation following different values and rules, not to mention the tremendous boost it could represent in revitalising our economies and create jobs. but first of all we need a strong political will and to prepare a constructive approach for negotiations. we have yet to agree on what should be included in these talks. the eu’s attempt to exclude audiovisual services would not be the best start, in my opinion. if the us insists, in turn, on excluding the regulation of financial services, the result could be a typical free trade agreement, rather than an ambitious and comprehensive one. therefore i would suggest thinking it over, we should start with no preconditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. the situation in turkey illustrates clearly that there is a long way to go on the path of democracy. peaceful demonstrations against the ruling authorities, who continuously oppress any opposing opinions and the creeping islamisation, show that the cup has spilt over for the people of turkey. as the eu, we have to very carefully monitor the situation and draw conclusions. prime minister erdoğan has shown zero willingness to enter into dialogue with the people; instead he has used excessive violence to smother the protests. he has ordered domestic media not to show one second from the demonstrations, which effectively means erasing media freedom. is this a regime we want to negotiate an eu membership? a country with the highest number of imprisoned journalists, where tear-gas is used to suppress a peaceful crowd, where the government refuses any concessions to citizens’ demands or even to speak to the people?
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. promoting the right and freedom of religion or belief and preventing it from being violated has to be a priority of the eu’s external policies. there is a need to mainstream this in all of our relations with third countries and in the union’s external actions. the vp/hr has to be vocal in condemning religiously motivated violence and hate speech in the world. freedom of belief should be fostered, protected and guaranteed in its full scope. this must include a collective dimension to exercise this right in community with others, to build churches, train religious leaders, freely communicate through all available means, publish and spread religious literature, receive voluntary contributions and guarantee teaching of children according to the values and principles of their parents, on voluntary basis. the eu should present conditions in particular to prevent religious discrimination targeting the family and influencing the social legislation of third countries.
author. − mr president, we have heard too many words from the west on the crackdown on democracy in russia. we have had too many summits where these issues have been taken up. we have had many resolutions from this parliament over the last four years without any concrete results: no change. but i think that now it is time for europe to respond, and to respond to what we see happening russia. we have to respond to the crackdown on democracy in the russian federation. we must adopt the european magnitsky law. this should be our response and also i would like to call once again on civil society across the west, including the european union. we should re-establish the helsinki committee movement in the west to support the political opposition in the russian federation and, especially, to support civil society, which is fighting for its democratic and constitutional rights in the russian federation.
mr president, as a strategic partner of the european union, azerbaijan has a strong economic model, a climate of religious tolerance and secularity. one could imagine that our azerbaijani partners expect a more pragmatic and more balanced attitude from the european union. this resolution clearly supports the ongoing negotiations on an eu-azerbaijan association agreement. at the same time, of course, this resolution reminds our azerbaijani friends that they are members of the council of europe, with all of the commitments to democracy, rule of law and human rights that this entails. i would like to call for continuing the good and open dialogue we have with the republic of azerbaijan in order to contribute to the rapprochement of both the european and azerbaijani peoples.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to express my sincere condolences to the victims of horrific violence among the rohingya muslims in burma/myanmar. this must come to an immediate end, and i call on the burmese government to do everything in its power to provide security for all minority groups living there. this is not an internal issue, and i hope that the neighbouring states will also provide support in order to resolve the existing problems as fast as possible. the 130 000 rohingyas who remain displaced in camps and other areas must be provided with immediate humanitarian aid. i call on the vice-president/high representative to address the issue with her counterparts in asean countries in order to find a quick and a peaceful solution.
mr president, maybe i lost it in translation, because i was listening to the estonian-language interpretation. i really did not catch what the previous colleague was saying. could you please repeat it?
the rapporteur. - the honorable vice president kallas, good colleagues. i shall therefore be putting the amendment of the directive on registration documents on hold. in the committee on transport and tourism, 25 amendments were tabled by colleagues to the report, most of which were supported either directly or by way of compromise. the most important thing for this report is to reduce red tape and paperwork and to harmonise registration rules and procedures. with a number of amendments, we will reduce the actual waste of paper and increase the scope for control. the creation and wider use of electronic databases is a good example. the use of electronic databases should make it possible in the coming years to check that the data described in the registration documents of a given vehicle correspond to those in the electronic database. the wider use of databases will provide an opportunity to ensure that our roads are used by vehicles that are technically sound and environmentally sound. if it is not possible today to check the technical inspection of a vehicle registered in another member state, it will be much more effective thanks to a number of amendments in my report and in that of my colleague, mr kuhn. firstly, the results of the roadworthiness test must be available electronically and secondly, there must be a corresponding indication either in the vehicle registration documents or on separate paper accompanying the vehicle. i myself have proposed amendments to both reports, which provide that the registration documents must bear a reference to the review carried out and that in this case no separate certificate of validity of the review is to be issued or carried. this solution is already in place in many member states and will help to reduce the amount of paper that vehicle users have to carry. one of the most important changes is the introduction of the concept of temporary and permanent deletion. the main difference between the two concepts is that the first does not require a new registration process, whereas the second does. i also proposed that the owner of a vehicle should have the right and the possibility of permanently deleting the vehicle from the register at his own request, since the legal status and liability for damages in the period between the sale of the vehicle and its re-registration is not sufficiently regulated in all member states. therefore, the previous owner of a vehicle should be able to delete the vehicle from the register himself in order to avoid liability for any subsequent damage. the commission also supported the proposal to define that if a vehicle has a valid inspection, the valid inspection must remain valid when the owner or member state changes, as the technical condition of the vehicle does not change with the change of owner or member state, and the two other abovementioned regulations harmonise the technical inspection activities. finally, there is one amendment which did not find sufficient support in the commission and which i have tabled in the house. this is an amendment to the size of registration documents. the maximum size of registration documents currently in force is a4 and in practice there are many different sizes of registration documents in use. i believe that here too we can meet our citizens and introduce user-friendly and environmentally friendly sizes and, through a uniform format, also ensure easier checking of these documents. the introduction of a single format is not new, as we have already decided on the same format for driving licences and different id cards. i hope you can support my amendment. finally, i would like to thank mr kuhn and mrs sehnalova and all the other reporters for their cooperation.
the rapporteur. - i'm also pleased to say that we heard no substantive or reasoned objections to the proposals made today, and i hope we move forward with them quickly. i hope we will also move quickly towards the creation of electronic databases across europe and make them accessible to authorised persons to increase the effectiveness of controls. mr sarvamaa expressed doubts whether a single registration document across europe would be the right idea or not. i hope, however, that tomorrow parliament will support a single registration document, and that we will take an effective step towards environmental protection and consumer friendliness. a small country like estonia can be an example of how to be frugal and sustainable. although the council is not present, i also believe that we will be able to reach appropriate compromises between the council, parliament and the commission and to adopt a legislative act within the year. i too would like to thank all those who took part in this debate, first of all, of course, the rapporteur, the deputy rapporteur and the vice-president of the commission.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's efforts to establish a framework for the annual reporting of member states' export credit activities. the report clearly highlights the scale and importance of the export credit operations their total exposure was over eur 250 billion, almost twice the annual eu budget, including 260 transactions with a high environmental impact. given the scale and impact of the transactions, it is essential to take account of the eu's core values and the general norms of external action, such as the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights and the protection of the environment. the eu must act in accordance with its core values in every area, in words and in deeds, and no one should be discounted. i supported the report which draws attention to the above and also to several shortcomings, such as the inadequate quality of the reports, which do not allow for an adequate assessment of, for example, the handling of environmental threats and the adherence to the union's foreign policy objectives. as this is the first report, i hope that the member states and the commission will draw their conclusions on the shortcomings and, in the light of the proposals made in the report, will address them.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the adoption of the report by mrs olga sehnalova on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles in the union. although this report only deals with the so-called roadside checks, it is a very important part of the whole technical inspection package. i agree with the rapporteur that more attention should be paid to small trucks and vans, as the number of accidents involving them has increased significantly in recent years. the second important issue in this regulation is the verification of the positioning and fastening of the goods on trailers. most accidents involving small trailers are caused by inexperience on the part of the driver, misplacement of goods or mis-locking. i also supported the introduction of common minimum standards for the training of inspectors carrying out inspections, which would help to ensure that roadside inspections could also be carried out correctly in the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of mr kuhn's report on the routine technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include motorcycles, which will help to ensure that the technical inspection package has a greater impact on reducing road deaths. for years, motorcycles have been inspected in estonia, thus improving road safety. by ensuring that our roads are well-maintained for two- and three-wheelers, we save lives - not just for motorcyclists, but for all other road users. the decision by the european parliament to support my proposal to include a mention of the validity of the roadworthiness test in vehicle registration documents is also a positive one, as it will make life easier for ordinary citizens in other member states, as in estonia. it was also welcomed that tractors whose main use is not the provision of transport services, i.e. agricultural tractors, are not covered by the regulation.
in writing. − cooperation is the lifeblood of society and in every sphere of life, which is why i supported this report, which focuses on promoting cooperatives and other social enterprises. there is no doubt that cooperatives have played a major role in overcoming the economic crisis, with some 160 000 cooperatives in the eu already providing jobs for 5.4 million workers, or half the population of finland. cooperatives also better meet the objectives of sustainable economic and social development of local communities by being more socially responsible. the latter is ensured by the participation of many people in collective action, or 'common responsibility', as in the case of the 123 million members of the eu's associations. cooperatives are currently most effective in rural areas and in agriculture, where farmers own the entire production chain through cooperatives production, processing and sale of the product in stores. such cooperative activities help to save costs and also to pay their members a decent wage. i think that the formation of cooperatives in cities could be further promoted, either through credit unions, which are already quite popular in small towns, or through cooperatives of artisans, etc.
in writing. − cooperatives have proved to be more resilient than other, conventional forms of enterprise in times of crisis. i think that at all levels, people need to be more actively involved in how they organise their lives through cooperatives and other social enterprises. the opportunity for people to participate in such processes themselves and actively also has a training effect.
mr president, it is significant that on the first day of the lithuanian presidency, croatia joins the european family and also that, at the end of the presidency, latvia is to become a member of the eurozone. i think this is a message that the eu enlargement is, and continues to be, a success story for all participants. the lithuanian example in reforming its economy, as is the case with other baltic states, is encouraging for the eu. balancing the budget and conducting reforms can be combined with growth. the result is the fastest growing economies in europe. however, structural reforms are dragging their feet in many states and we need a determined leadership to complete them. one of the most pressing tasks for the lithuanian presidency is connecting europe. in modern terms, the baltic states and finland are still very much cut off from europe. our infrastructures, dating back to soviet times, connect us to moscow rather than to the heart of europe. hopefully i am mistaken, but i did not find among the lithuanian priorities the rail baltica project, which has received support from the commission. i hope that we will not be content with only having the planned railway safety directive. we first need to build a modern railway connecting finland, the baltic states and poland to berlin and brussels. i also ask for your kind help in solving the problem of creating a joint venture among the three baltic states to start managing the rail baltica project in practice. the eastern neighbourhood is especially pertinent to lithuania. the successful vilnius summit will be crucial for both our neighbouring countries as well as for the eu. as you said, eastern partners must know that they are welcome. i wish our lithuanian friends the success that they rightly deserve.
in writing. lithuania is the first member state with a soviet background to take over the presidency of the european union. i'm sure it's a big challenge for you. regardless of the agreement in principle reached with the irish presidency on the multiannual financial perspective, you still have a lot of work to do. i would also like to mention in particular the inter-national transport links within the european union and their further development for example rail baltic. i wish lithuania much success in meeting these challenges.
in writing. − in order to protect eu citizens, businesses and organisations from injustice, abuse of power and discrimination, the role of the european ombudsman as a watchdog is of the utmost importance. since the ombudsman must be an independent and neutral actor in his work, his political neutrality is of course necessary, i.e. he should not have a direct link with the eu institutions and bodies or any political organisation. given the above and the low representation of women in senior positions, i supported the candidacy of emily o'reilly, an irishwoman, who has demonstrated her commitment and competence in her long career as ombudsman of ireland. i'm even more pleased that the candidate i supported from day one has been elected and emily o'reilly has become the first woman to hold this important office. i wish the new european ombudsman every success in his work in defending the fundamental values of europe!
in writing. − i supported the european parliament's joint resolution on the multiannual financial framework (2014-2020), which, while recognising the efforts of the irish presidency to reach a political agreement, was highly critical of the council, which has still not taken sufficient account of the parliament's main proposals on budgetary flexibility and own resources. i think it is irresponsible to 'tie the hands' of the new composition of the european parliament and to lock the budget without being able to make the necessary changes. i therefore consider it very important that the next mff could be subject to a mandatory review by the end of 2016 and, if necessary, be amended. the availability of eu own resources, as provided for in the treaty, is also key to reducing dependence on national contributions based on gni. in order to better ensure the sustainability of the eu and the achievement of its objectives, i support the proposal that the source of revenue for the eu's own resources could be a financial transaction tax or a new eu vat. i hope that during the lithuanian presidency agreement will be reached on these and other fundamental issues and that parliament will be able to approve the mff in the autumn of this year.
in writing. − today's political agreement is not yet a final agreement, but it is an important step forward that gives us confidence in reaching a final agreement. i'm glad we're giving that signal here today. there may be endless disagreements between all three institutions, but life wants to be lived and processes must go on. parliament has shown itself to be a good partner in this process and has been very active.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the eu’s credibility lies in its ability to perform in a transparent and non-corrupted manner. olaf has been set up to control, investigate and ensure that this is the case. any suspicion or ambiguity in the work of olaf could compromise its mission. the dalli case, where a commissioner was forced to leave based on allegations that might have been partly incited by olaf, is a very serious concern for the eu and needs thorough investigation. new rules, clearer rules on olaf’s mandate should help to avoid such problems in the future. the reputation and actions of olaf need to be impeccable in order to carry out its tasks as a credible, impartial watch-dog and control dog.
in writing. - i voted against the timing of the greenhouse gas auction today. this is a half-baked solution that does not provide a sense of certainty that the decision will actually achieve the desired effect on the emissions trading system. i am all for reducing co2 emissions and developing new technologies, but unfortunately i cannot support improving a system that is designed to work on the market and is artificially created simply because we do not like the price we get there. when the eu created the ets, its main objective was to reduce emissions. today, we have reached a situation where emissions have been reduced by investing in lower carbon technologies and renewable energy. but we also know that the reduction in emissions is mainly due to the decline in economic activity due to the economic downturn. the commission needs to come up with a longer-term and broader strategic plan as soon as possible, covering both the changes to the quota system and the renewable energy sector as a whole, as emissions reductions are very closely linked to both topics. at the same time, we must not forget the implications of today's decision for our businesses and consumers. i agree that the share of electricity prices that derives from quotas is relatively small. but given the situation in estonia, where the market price of electricity is not working, i cannot agree to a proposal that would raise the price of electricity even more.
in writing. − i voted in favour of latvian accession to eurozone. latvia will adopt the euro on 1 january 2014. this step pays tribute to the hard work and determination of the latvian government and people in overcoming the dreadful recession they fell into. one of the deepest falls has turned into an absolute success story and led to full european integration. also the oecd decided on 30 may 2013 to open membership talks with latvia, which clearly underlines the latvian success story. latvia demonstrates well that political commitment and determination play a key role in times of crisis and overcoming difficulties. we can only admire how a country with an almost 18% drop in gdp in 2010 is now predicted to be the fastest growing economy in the eu for 2013 and 2014. it is equally remarkable that average wages will exceed the levels of pre-crisis growth already this year. the eu should be proud of its latest eurozone member, and most importantly learn from this small country on how to act in difficult times.
in writing. − as a neighbour of latvia and as an ambassador for estonia, which recently joined the euro area in 2011, i am pleased to see that latvia's economic situation is improving and that the country has met the strict maastricht criteria. the accession of latvia to the euro area is certainly very important in order to ensure greater economic reliability and stability, which is very important for attracting significant investments. however, i am concerned about the lack of support for the euro by the latvian public, and also about the experience in my home country where, when the euro was introduced, prices were raised significantly by merchants and various service providers, causing difficulties for many families to make ends meet. all of this, of course, gives skeptics a reason to frighten people - but it's largely unfounded. i hope that the latvian government has learned from estonia's experience and is able to better control price increases. to achieve this, it is not enough to launch a major propaganda campaign with the slogan 'the euro will not raise prices', but rather a proactive policy and a national consensus.
in writing. − first of all, i am completely puzzled as to why such an important issue as latvia's accession to the euro has received so little attention in the european parliament and has not been taken up for debate in the plenary. the presentation of the success stories of the european union is a much-needed moment. the european union's biggest concern - which has come to the fore during the crisis - is that countries are not abiding by the agreement. latvia has fulfilled its commitments, followed the rules and earned its place in the euro area.
in writing. − i supported the report, whose concerns and proposals for improving the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud are very relevant. the fact that comparable statistics are not collected at eu level on the basis of a common methodology is certainly an obstacle to the compilation of reliable and accurate reports. the current method of data collection, which is limited to data provided by the member states and uses different definitions for the same type of crime, is not justified. in addition to the above, member states do not provide their data in a timely manner or provide them inaccurately, which naturally prevents the european parliament, the commission and olaf from carrying out their evaluations properly. i therefore support a stricter treatment of such member states and the recovery of funds unduly paid from the eu budget. to ensure the reliability of the report, it is necessary first of all to establish uniform reporting principles, on the basis of which relevant data can be collected at all, rather than comparing incomparable things, dealing with idle work and self-deception.
mr president, i am also unpleasantly disturbed by the fact that some guys in the us have been peeping into my bedroom even though i never do anything illegal there. however, i am tempted to bring our moralising under question, because we happen to have a member state where a prime minister’s mistress can order four-star generals to spy on the legal spouse of a prime minister. so i think we should also sort out our own problems and then really sit down with our transatlantic partners and have a serious talk with them. by the way, we never stopped trade and trade talks on russian oil and gas, even though we seriously do not deny that they probably are spying on us.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur ms hohlmeier for the very important work which has been done. i say that on behalf of my colleague cecilia malmström, who is responsible for this dossier, but it is a dossier which is very dear to my heart and cecilia and i are working closely together on this whole question of cyber-criminality. together with the adoption of the eu cybersecurity strategy and the launch of the european cybercrime centre with europol earlier this year, this will mark an additional and a strong political signal that the eu is serious in combating cyber-attacks. the primary purpose of the commission proposal was to prevent cyber-attacks. the attack in estonia in 2007 was the triggering event, but the problem of cyber-attacks has, as everybody knows, worsened since the estonian attack. the urgency with which we need to deal with this problem is real and the directive is a necessary response to this. as you know, the proposal builds on the existing framework decision and we welcome that your report retains the provisions put forward by the commission, such as the definition of two new offences – illegal interception and tools to commit large-scale attacks – and higher penalties for the general offences, as well as new aggravating circumstances such as attacks committed against a critical infrastructure information system. we also welcome that the report calls for the inclusion of a new aggravating circumstance when the offences are committed by misusing personal data of another person and causing prejudice to the rightful identity owner. we believe that including this specific measure is important, as it has become one of the most common ways to commit cyber-attacks today. finally, the text also seeks to improve european criminal justice and police cooperation by strengthening the existing structure of contact points, including an obligation to answer urgent requests within eight hours, and the obligation to collect basic statistical data on cyber-attacks. last, but not least, we welcome a new obligation introduced by the european parliament for member states to have reporting channels in place for reporting of the offences to competent authorities. reporting is key in order to understand the scale of the problem, and this measure is fully in line with the member states’ commitment made in the eu policy cycle on organised and serious international crime. we hope that the agreed text will now be swiftly adopted by both the european parliament and the council. thank you again ms hohlmeier for the important work done in the interest of the european union and its citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, i would like to thank ms hohlmeier, with whom we have been working for some time on this very important issue. we believe that this proposal, which updates the existing regulations under the 2005 framework decision and increases the scope of the council of europe convention on cybercrime, is a clear signal that the eu is taking all cyber threats very seriously, as the commissioner said. mapping our critical infrastructure, setting minimum standards, enhancing cooperation between member states and agreeing on common sanctions against attacks on it systems are crucial steps in order to guarantee our digital security. at the same time, the free and open nature of the internet is to be fully respected. from a foreign affairs perspective, this proposal definitely increases the strength and visibility of a common eu approach to protecting and fighting attacks against information systems in the world. i urge all colleagues to vote in favour of this proposal.
mr president, i would like to congratulate ms hohlmeier on her report and on coming to an agreement with the council. the key to controlling cybercrime is still, firstly, to establish and harmonise minimum standards and then to share information. this directive paves the way for initiatives by the commission, and i think it is important to bear in mind that the relevant directives should be complementary, and seek to avoid duplication. i would have wished for clearer definitions of the kinds of threat that would have minor or major impacts on infrastructure or information systems. here the directive remains somewhat vague and could offer opportunities for ambiguous interpretation. on the whole, however, i think there has been good and encouraging progress.
the eu’s five-year-old common position is something unique in the world, so we can be satisfied, on the one hand, with significant progress but clearly that is not enough. the eu is the world’s second largest arms exporter, and that trend is being strengthened by the decline in internal eu defence demand due to reductions in defence budgets. this provides incentives and justifications for increasing arms exports to countries outside the eu, and in many cases one cannot be clear as to how and where such arms will be used. that is why coherence is needed. the first goal is to reduce the existing differences between our common foreign and security policies and the common position. secondly, although member states’ arms exports have become more transparent, available data is still incomplete and can vary. we need to find out how the common position is applied in practical terms in the member states’ systems. the capacity to assess the control of arms exports also needs to be enhanced. ultimately, however, responsibility lies with the member states who decide whether to issue arms export licences or not.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, first let me thank all those who made comments and suggestions. all this will feed into the deliberations by our colleagues in the working party, helping them to move the review process on the common position further. in response to mr howitt – and thanks for raising the point – i would only say that the focus in criteria 7 and 8 in the common position results from far-reaching national assessment by your member states. and the guidance on criterion 2, about human rights, is already very substantial. let me say simply that, as many of you agreed, the common position has greatly contributed to the improvement of arms export controls in the eu member states by making trade embargos more responsible, transparent and accountable. today’s debate is yet more evidence of this. at the same time, any assessment of its implementation by the eu member states has to take into account what the common position prescribes and what it does not prescribe. what the common position establishes is a unique framework at european level, consisting inter alia of substantial and sensitive information-sharing among eu member states. however, it does not create a single eu licensing authority, and the actual and final decisions on arms control remain a matter of national discretion for each and every member state. convergence and harmonisation on arms exports result from information exchange and peer pressure among eu member states. ultimately, and where relevant, member states can be held accountable for their decisions thanks to the robust transparency mechanism that the common position contains. certainly there is still room for improvement and that is why a review process is ongoing. we should, however, be proud of what we have achieved and of the example we have set for other countries outside the union. we have certainly not shied away from the global scene. the eu has been one of the main promoters of the principle of responsibility and transparency in the global arms trade through its key and very progressive role in the negotiation of the arms trade treaty at the un. the att agreed last april in new york is a strong and credible international instrument that will make a difference to the security of people affected by armed conflict and armed violence in various corners of the world. the treaty also has the potential to create a level playing-field where all arms exporters – and not only new member states – play by the same strict and transparent rules, and this will ultimately have an impact in terms of improved and fair competition in this very sensitive market.
in writing. – western european countries, notably france are selling more and more arms to russia. by doing so, they are circumventing nato and ignoring the concerns of nato partners and eu member states. france’s wishful thinking is more than depressing: even japan has already expressed its concern over the impact russian mistrals will have in the region. this situation is appalling and cannot continue. the eu must not export arms to a country that violates freedom of speech, human rights and invades its neighbours. ceterum censeo, france will sincerely regret its sale of mistral ships to russia.
in writing. – while completion of the single market is one of the main goals the eu still has to accomplish, completing the digital single market seems to advance at a faster pace. again here we could talk about political will: in this case it comes from the commission which has laid down detailed plans and measures on how to bring about the digital agenda. the world is changing at a rapid pace and is going digital, making borders, physical location and presence virtually null and void. this new reality offers unlimited opportunities for doing business, creating employment, learning, participating. the eu’s main task is to ensure the same technological progress in every member state so the systems needed for a vibrant, innovative and secure cyberspace can be set up. broadband internet connection for everyone is a key issue here. secondly, obstacles in e-commerce need to be eliminated. cross-border e-business in the eu should be easier than the physical version. we need to set up a european digital signature, e-identifications, harmonise online consumer rights and make rapid progress on citizens’ digital skills, awareness and cyber hygiene. member states such as estonia have shown us how to be an e-tiger, now we need to turn this into a european e-tiger to ensure our e-sustainability and acquire our e-potential.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it necessary to provide additional macro-financial assistance to georgia. despite criticism that georgia is moving towards russia and the ussr with a new government and that prime minister bidzina ivanishvili is abandoning integration into the european union and nato, this has not been proven true. on the contrary, georgia will continue to integrate into the european union and take strong steps to implement the reforms necessary for this. as regards the provision of macro-financial assistance to georgia, it is positive that the european parliament and the council reached agreement on the procedure for the provision of financial assistance in the conciliation procedure. the compromise of using the advisory procedure for amounts up to eur 90 million and the control procedure for amounts above that is entirely reasonable. of course, it is more important than the technical details that the european union's assistance also be of real benefit and help achieve the objectives set to ensure the further development of a sustainable economy and civil society in georgia. in view of the european union's geopolitical interests, georgia and the transcaucasian region as a whole and its political and economic upswing are of paramount importance.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the principle of equal pay has been enshrined in the treaties since 1957. it is also incorporated in directive 2006/54 on equal treatment between women and men in employment and occupation. the directive provides that for the same work, to which equal value is attributed, direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of sex shall be eliminated. all member states have to implement these provisions in their national legal systems. however, the pay gap remains a reality. as the rapporteur says, it is 16.2% on average. as set out in the strategy for equality between women and men, the commission is committed to supporting member states in tackling this problem, and parliament’s added value assessment brings new momentum to the debate. i want to thank parliament for this contribution. we can tackle the issue from different ends, but the effective application of the existing eu legal framework on equal pay is indispensable for reducing the gender pay gap. therefore, one of the commission’s priorities will be to monitor the correct application and enforcement of the directive at national level and to support member states and other stakeholders with the proper enforcement and application of the existing rules. however, proper enforcement also depends on the willingness of individuals to take matters to court, and so far we have seen that, in most member states, the number of cases of pay discrimination referred to national courts remains low. the commission is preparing a report on the application of the 2006 directive. the report will assess the effectiveness of the directive’s implementation and highlight certain aspects that are particularly important or problematic. in response to parliament’s resolution of may 2012, the report will focus in particular on assessing the application of the provisions in practice, addressing different elements of the equal pay principle. we want to provide practical guidance, for instance, on job classification systems, based on national best practices, in order to assist member states and relevant stakeholders in bridging the gender pay gap and especially the indirect gender pay gap. the commission will also seek to clarify legal issues in a summary of the jurisprudence on equal pay and give an overview of the court of justice interpretation of the principle and its separate elements, including the concept of ‘work of equal value’, which i think is the key to addressing the indirect pay gap. our common aim should be to increase transparency and make it easier for employees to claim their rights. the transparency issue is also a key one for trade unions and for bargaining. its clarification should lead employers, the social partners, national authorities and national courts to more effective application of national law. some member states, by the way, have started to work on transparency requirements with the social partners, and i think we should look at the best practices in this respect. the commission will also continue its awareness-raising activities. as you know, we have focused intensely on these. this year we had equal pay day on 28 february and on that occasion we presented new information material. the commission’s gender equality website provides information on this topic as well as examples at national level of how to tackle the pay gap. since 2012, within the framework of the equality pays off project, the commission has provided training and tools to companies in 34 european countries to help them understand and detect pay inequalities. finally, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and the european semester, the commission has highlighted the gender pay gap and, where appropriate, has made country-specific recommendations to member states addressing some of the most basic root causes of the gender pay gap – childcare and tax benefit systems being some of the most important ones. so these are the areas in which we are working concretely, and the report on where the gaps are and on the solutions to them will come out in the course of this year.
on behalf of the alde group. thank you, mr president, mr commissioner, and my good colleagues. since 1957, when the treaty establishing the european economic community was signed in rome, all member states and the european union as a whole have undertaken to ensure equal pay for men and women for equal or equivalent work. the same principle has subsequently become the rule of law in both the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. over the years, the european parliament has adopted directives, reports and resolutions on this basis. it's all good on paper, but not on a payday in a woman's wallet. now, returning to the values enshrined in the european treaties, i would like to emphasise that the objective is equal pay for equal work or work of equal value. over half a century later, the words are true and beautiful, but they remain illusory. that's true, but we don't have to show off to get results. and yet we can only talk about the general wage gap, making equal pay for equal work gender fair is just a promise on paper. i would also like to stress that reducing gender inequality by eliminating the gender pay gap does not only benefit women. it is not just a feminist struggle recent value added assessments have concluded that reducing wage disparities simultaneously increases economic growth. and that is what we are seeking here in this parliament and in the european union as a whole. in short, let us fulfill the obligations we have assumed. thank you!
mr president, i would like to raise the subject of the recent political pressure exercised by russia on the countries of the eastern partnership. the eu has consistently said that each country must be free and independent in making the relevant choices regarding the economic and political relations it wishes to have. for that reason it is truly worrisome to see the clear pressure from moscow on the six eastern partnership countries – armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. after years of negotiations, and in a positive climate for a possible economic agreement with armenia, it comes as a surprise that the armenian president has decided his country should join the customs union with russia and the eurasian economic union. we would welcome this decision had it not come so suddenly and after a closed-door meeting with mr putin. it is quite clear that the armenian president was made an offer he could not refuse.
in writing. − given the relatively high number of couples living in registered partnerships across borders and the fact that the persons concerned face various complex issues, e.g. due to separation or death of one of the partners, it is essential to improve the legal situation in this area. to reduce legal uncertainty, i also supported this report. i also agree with the rapporteur that registered partners should also be able to choose the law applicable to property consequences and that this should be in line with the wider matrimonial property regime regulation. in my view, the commission's proposal to prohibit the choice of law applicable to registered partnerships is contrary to the eu charter of fundamental rights. this was also confirmed by the opinion of the eu agency for fundamental rights, which stated that there must be a sufficient justification for the restriction of the rights concerned. the commission's reference to differences in the laws of the member states is certainly not sufficient justification.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. this report once again highlights the main bottlenecks that need to be tackled if eu wishes to reach its target on completing internal energy market by 2014. most important is to increase cross-border energy cooperation and ensure solidarity between member states. energy islands still exist and need to be connected to rest of european energy systems without further delay. this is not only a question of energy security but also an economic one, considering that a competitive and open energy market is one of the main pillars, which hardly can be accomplished if energy islands persist. competitiveness and openness are the core values of the european economy, including energy. ensuring transparency and easy access for new actors will generate affordable prices for the consumers and enable free choice of energy providers according to needs. i underline what is said in the report that local cooperatives could facilitate greater participation of consumers, through smart appliances, decentralised storage and collective switching initiatives that would increase awareness among consumers about their energy behaviour both as consumers and as micro-producers. we need to achieve the mentality change towards energy on a personal level that would then lead towards general conscious energy behaviour.
in writing. − in europe, nearly 2% of the population is already addicted to gambling and, unfortunately, this number is constantly increasing as a result of the growing popularity of online gambling. the most vulnerable are young people and people with disabilities, for whom the internet has made it particularly easy and attractive to visit so-called casinos. i think online gambling should only be done with the use of an id card and other secure identification systems. cross-border supervision of gambling establishments should also be strengthened to ensure that the requirements laid down are also met in practice. for these reasons, i also supported this own-initiative report, which draws extensive attention to the risks associated with online gambling and makes substantive proposals to improve the situation.
mr president, we need to become a leading world economy and that means taking the lead on the digital agenda, as my colleague mr hökmark has said. it means not only using cyberspace more efficiently and openly, but also making it safer and more secure. sometimes this almost seems to be a mission impossible, but i would like to present some points on how to make progress in this field. the key words are, of course, trust and cooperation. to generate trust, all interested parties need to base their action on the same principles. this is still the eu’s weakest point because more than half of the member states have yet to complete their national cybersecurity strategies. secondly, cooperation is needed at all levels and between all players. to ensure reliable cybersecurity, exchange of relevant information needs to become the norm. thirdly, i would draw special attention to basic training on cybersecurity: staff in both the public and private sectors need systematic training on basic cybersecurity. this should also be introduced in schools. fourthly, cybersecurity needs to become an integral part of crisis and risk management at all levels. in conclusion, examples were presented today, in relation to the eu solidarity clause, demonstrating that the eu must keep in mind the possibility of a full-scale cyber attack against a member state and must ensure that such an event would be reliably covered by our solidarity clause.
in writing. − i supported the allocation of funds from the european union solidarity fund to slovenia, croatia and austria, the first proposal to mobilise the fund this year. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to improve the quality of the services provided by the european union, in particular by improving the quality of the services provided by the member states to the commission. it's just the very slow pace of things that makes me nervous. the floods occurred almost a year ago and it is only now 11 months later that the eu has come to the aid of its member states that have suffered. the commission's control of eligibility criteria should be faster and more efficient.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it puts forward several good concrete proposals on how to tackle youth unemployment. the core issue to change the labour market into a more youth-friendly one is close cooperation between those concerned, such as state authorities, the private sector, youth services and youth organisations. youth unemployment has been around 17-20 % for at least the last decade and has now increased to 23 %. it has been shamefully high over longer time and only the dramatic numbers in spain and greece have drawn greater european attention to this. we need genuine and profound solutions, and to drastically modernise our labour markets and education systems. a special focus is needed on vocational training and apprenticeships. the private sector has to enhance its corporate social responsibility and corporate ethics by providing young people with fair opportunities, and not positions such as senior interns. young people should not be made into martyrs; their abilities and skills need to be put to use and further developed. clear information and easy access to incentives for entrepreneurships and self-employment are crucial. they need to be given fishing rods to learn to fish and become independent, not fish to learn how to depend.
in writing. – i believe we are all pleased with having this vital discussion. it is most important that the eu uses its famous soft power and harmony among member states regarding the common foreign policy. however, it is impossible to see a leading role for france as it has sold mistral war ships to russia – the same country whose cynical behaviour regarding human rights and exploiting other countries’ conflicts we criticise. and it turns out that france could not contribute militarily in syria as instead of building a fleet it is selling its ships. ceterum censeo – france has decided to sell a mistral-class warship to russia; we believe that it will sincerely regret its action.
mr president, may i express my satisfaction and confidence in baroness ashton’s actions towards egypt. the country is unfortunately more divided than it was before the start of the revolution. i am particularly concerned about increased extremists attacks against christian communities. the muslim brotherhood, unfortunately, did not do anything to stop or prevent these actions. copts, the most ancient part of the population, need to be guaranteed their rightful place and role in a future multi-religious egypt. this should become our common commitment. national reconciliation is the only way out of the crisis, but this should involve all non-extremist actors. the new constitution should be adopted and i am confident that baroness ashton can help to complete the process.
thank you, madam director! i personally have quite a few friends in estonia who have come from belarus as young refugees and to whom estonia has granted political asylum. i have worked with them a lot in recent years and therefore i am quite familiar with the problems facing belarus and its citizens. i do not want to repeat all that mr rouček, mr schmidt, mr schulz and mr kowal have said in their speeches here, i agree with all of them. what is clear is that the current regime in belarus is a criminal regime. the current regime is riddled with corruption. the current regime is holding political prisoners. and the question is really why the belarusian citizens themselves are putting up with such a thing. but perhaps also because at one time the european union did nothing, did not give them a perspective, a chance to get closer to the european union. and that message that has been left out, maybe that message can still be given today, maybe it's not too late.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the upcoming vilnius summit is by far one of the most important meetings regarding our relations with our eastern partnership countries. the initiative that was created nearly four years ago is reaching a crucial milestone. unfortunately, that seems to be an unwanted step by the russian side and it has been clearly evident they are now exerting pressure on the countries that russia believes to have under its own sphere of influence. already the terminology relates to a cold war mindset. the actions are even more illustrative. the targeted sanctions against ukraine’s exports, the export ban on the moldovan wine industry and security-related threats with respect to armenia are all direct attacks against these countries’ sovereignty to freely choose the nature of their relations with their partners. i believe that europe must respond. solidarity and unity are the key words for us in our actions in these upcoming months. we must stand together against the kremlin’s pressure, sabotage and provocations. we must not be frightened by their warnings. we must support and defend our eastern partners. we must open our markets to moldovan wines. we must show putin that his kgb methods are unacceptable to the european union. ukraine is especially sensitive because, without ukraine, the eurasian union will be simply a paper tiger. we must defreeze the financial assets and support ukraine in this very historic choice. i call on the commission to maintain a very pragmatic and realistic view of this enormous political and economic pressure that the kremlin is putting on its partners, but also on us, the european union. we must reaffirm the necessity to show our support clearly and powerfully to our eastern neighbours.
in writing. – the situation in our direct neighbourhood is becoming dramatic on the eve of the vilnius summit. russia has always been sensitive about the possibility that a true european road will be chosen by the former soviet provinces. now, a new dimension of open hostility and crude economic pressure has been reached. russia is openly using imperialist language in the region neighbouring the eu. the same rhetoric is being applied also towards the baltic states, which should seriously worry the eu. the success of the vilnius summit and the signing of several association treaties will be crucial both for eu credibility and for its future role in the region. we need to unite more than ever, ensuring eu commitment and willingness to pursue the road of further integration. the eurasian customs union does not comply in any way with eu integration and is meant as a countermove in order to retain russia’s soviet era dominance over its neighbours. the eu’s political commitment and presence is more important than ever, and we owe it to the people of those countries. the eu has to resolutely condemn and oppose all russian post-imperialist moves that bully its neighbours and try to block their free choice of a society governed by the rule of law.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, which strongly condemns the use of chemical weapons to murder civilians in syria and calls for measures to prevent the use of chemical weapons. the current situation in syria is extremely worrying and the suffering inflicted on the syrian people by the regime of bashar assad or by the extremist opposition forces should in no way be accepted by the international community. violence is not the answer, and nothing justifies killing people - even by methods less painful than chemical weapons. if the minority-based regime of bashar assad should ever fall, the international community must be watching closely to ensure that the long-suffering sunni majority does not retaliate against the minorities - the alawites and the christians. the key to solving the syrian crisis is how different ethnic and religious groups can come together to build a democratic and better society. the eu must also support the process of reaching consensus and building a democratic society by all means.
author. − mr president, the recent escalation of violence in the eastern democratic republic of congo has severe humanitarian, political and economic consequences in the region, which is already extremely unstable. it is regrettable that there is still external support to the rebel forces, which is prolonging the conflict. these supporters must understand that they are actually creating more problems than they solve. the european parliament calls on all stakeholders to participate in the dialogue with the country’s communities and go ahead with the peace talks that continued last week. one of the most important issues is to find a clear solution to the equal and fair distribution of the state budget, as well as providing equal access to the vast natural resources. i would like to stress the recommendation of this house to the 24th un human rights council, which is taking place at the moment, to adopt a strong resolution re-establishing the monitoring mechanism concerning the human rights situation in the democratic republic of congo.
author. − mr president, nearly six months have now passed since the unconstitutional seizure of power in the central african republic and the situation is worsening every day. the eu has repeatedly expressed its deep concern over the absence of the rule of law and has insisted on urgently restoring protection to the civilian population. to remove the climate of impunity, the judicial system must make accountable those who have committed human rights violations and war crimes. otherwise, there needs to be an international intervention, as the international criminal court said last month that the crimes committed in the central african republic may fall under its jurisdiction. there needs to be a clear demilitarisation and the implementation of a thorough peace plan.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i do believe that we need clearer and stricter rules on tobacco products. tobacco products could not be regarded as an ordinary commodity, they have serious and often lethal consequences to people’s health. the direct and indirect costs on public heath are not covered by possible economic revenues from tobacco sector. i would like to hereby declare my real intention regarding am 97/150 that i mistakenly have voted in favour of. i do not support the idea of packages being covered by health warnings only to the extent of 50%. the compromise 65% the ep has reached will cover two thirds of the package surface and i hope that we will in the near future achieve agreement on the 75% proposed by the commission.
in writing. − the provisions in the tobacco directive may at first sight seem harsh and unjustified, but they justify one of the more important objectives to keep young people away from using tobacco products. the european parliament cannot remain silent on the growing trend of smoking among young people. we must begin to inform the young of the dangers immediately. i think e-cigarettes should also be considered as a smoking cessation medicine rather than a consumer product that is available every day.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, unlike my usual role, i am speaking in this chamber as a representative of the republic of lithuania, not on behalf of the council, not as a representative of the council. thank you for this opportunity. i thank the commission, i thank the commissioner, i thank the european parliament for this debate and, if necessary, i hope for action. there are several points that should be of concern not only to lithuania, because this is a problem for the whole european union, it is a challenge for the whole european union, and perhaps even more so for the whole international trading system and the rules of the world trade organization. as you know, the russian federation, without any prior warning, as it would normally do, without any explanation, has been applying restrictive measures to lithuanian carriers for a long time, and not only to lithuanian carriers, but also to goods that are being transported to the russian federation but are loaded in lithuania. no explanation needed. why would you do that? we don't know. this is not normal. it's against the rules. it's against the principles of normal coexistence. this includes the ban, the campaign in the public space against lithuanian dairy products. and we don't know what's next. and we don't know what's next. we don't know what's going to happen if we don't respond. this situation cannot be tolerated. this is a challenge not only for lithuania but also for the european union as a whole. we therefore greatly appreciate the response of the european union institutions. solidarity with lithuania is the least europe can do and, i believe, must do. thank you for your reaction, thank you for your solidarity.
madam president, this is an unacceptable form of pressure not just against one member state but against the country holding the presidency. as such, it can only be treated as an unfriendly move against the eu as a whole. it cannot be seen as a bilateral trade dispute and it did not happen by chance. similar brutal economic pressure has also been applied to ukraine and moldova. the commission and member states must take guidance from parliament’s resolution of two weeks ago which concluded that measures applied by russia on trade are merely a cover for blatant political pressure. we need specific action, especially by the commission. the kremlin has proved once again that its policy towards the eu is not friendly but essentially hostile and inspired by post-imperialist thinking. the eu needs to send the strongest signal of solidarity before the vilnius summit that we stand united in defending our member state and in defending the freedom of those states which wish to be integrated into a democratic europe.
we have pilots and their unions on one side, and airlines on the other, giving different answers to the same math questions. the commission, as a math teacher, assesses that the companies are doing the job right and the pilots are doing it wrong. however, if i am not mistaken, we have imposed much shorter consecutive cabin times on truck drivers than we now want to impose on pilots. does the commission really think that the cockpit of an aircraft is so much more comfortable that it would impose a different regulation? maybe it's not a wise policy to regulate pilots in a way that they don't accept. that is why i look forward to the vote tomorrow, because i understand that the european people's party will not be able to stand united on this issue.
in writing. dear director, dear colleagues! the new code of conduct of the european commission and aviation safety experts includes several advances in reducing aviation safety compared to the previous regulation. i'd like to stop at some important changes. first, the reduction in the number of night flights. instead of the previous 11.45 hours, the new regulation provides for a maximum of 11 hours of night flights. the second positive change in this regulation is the reduction of pilot waiting and working hours. the commission proposal reduces pilot working time to 16 hours, including waiting at the airport. in the past, or in italy and spain, for example, waiting times have been as long as 26 hours. thirdly, it is very important to establish common rules for air traffic crossing different time zones. the new regulation gives the flight crew the right to 14 hours of rest or, if this is exceeded, the right to rest on the basis of hours flown. in addition to the number of time zones crossed after arrival at home, from 2 to 5 nights. for example, under current regulations, uk pilots who cross four or more time zones are not entitled to any exemption and in austria they are entitled to only 2 hours of rest in addition to the minimum rest. in conclusion, the new regulation is certainly a step forward and by adopting it we would certainly contribute to improving aviation safety. it is essential that pilots are able to rest sufficiently during their high-responsibility work. i also believe that a single framework will overcome the current shortcomings in european aviation and, through uniform conditions, will also improve the competitiveness of airlines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. mutual recognition of professional qualifications remains a problem within the eu. unnecessary bureaucracy and rigid national systems prevent eu citizens taking up jobs in other member states and thus prevent freedom of movement. also, such protectionist and out-dated systems do not comply with the principles of the european single market. i am glad that with this report we are taking a step towards better mutual recognition and eliminating several bureaucratic obstacles. implementing a european professional card would be the simplest way for citizens to prove their qualifications and for the authorities to verify them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. taking into account the exemplary account of taiwan’s development, both in regard of economic, as also of social affairs and its good record in democracy and human rights, i do believe it is only natural to pursue with deeper economic relations. currently, taiwan is the eu’s 23rd trade partner in the world, whereas the eu is the number one foreign investor in taiwan. both figures show already a considerable economic interaction, nevertheless experts agree that this is well below its potential. i support pursuing further investment protection and market access bilateral agreements with taiwan, which has already 31 bilateral agreements with third countries. this would enable both sides to enhance the economic potential and engage in closer cooperation on bilateral level.
in writing. − at today's plenary session, i supported the new regulatory framework of the european commission and aviation safety experts on technical requirements and administrative procedures for aviation activities, as it contains several advances in improving aviation safety compared to the previous regulation. i'd like to stop at some important changes. first, the reduction in the number of night flights. the new regulation limits the maximum flight time at night to 11 hours instead of 11 hours and 45 minutes. the second positive change in this regulation is the reduction of pilot waiting and working hours. the commission proposal reduces pilot working time to 16 hours, including waiting at the airport. in the past, or in italy and spain, for example, the waiting time was up to 26 hours. thirdly, it is very important to establish common rules for air traffic crossing different time zones. the new regulation gives the flight crew the right to 14 hours of rest or, if this is exceeded, the right to rest on the basis of hours flown. in addition to the number of time zones crossed after arrival at home, from 2 to 5 nights. for example, under current regulations, pilots in the uk who cross four or more time zones are not entitled to any exemption and in austria they are entitled to only 2 hours of rest in addition to the minimum rest. in conclusion, the new regulation is certainly a step forward and its adoption will certainly help to improve aviation safety. it is essential that pilots are able to rest sufficiently during their high-responsibility work. the single framework will address the current shortcomings in european aviation and, with the help of a single set of conditions, will also improve the competitiveness of airlines.
member of the commission. − madam president, the tftp agreement is an international agreement that we have negotiated. some of you did not like that agreement. you voted no. that is fine, that is your right. some of you voted yes, but reluctantly. but we – you – voted for this agreement with a very large majority in this house, and we negotiated together with very clear provisions on scope, data protection and the different rules – who had access, etc. we have carried out reviews on that, showing that the agreement is respected, we have made proposals to improve it, and we have also made an assessment, as requested by you, of the usefulness of the system. that report is ready, but i have kept it a little bit on hold because we have these discussions and the allegations. that review on the usefulness, which i will share with you very soon, gives very clear evidence that this agreement has helped the united states – but also europe – to track terrorist financing, and it has been very useful in some investigations. you will agree – even if you do not like this agreement – that we cannot suspend an agreement on the basis of media allegations. we need to ask questions. those media allegations are severe enough for me from the commission side to ask very pertinent questions of the americans. i have been writing letters, i have had telephone calls and i had a very long personal meeting with under-secretary cohen this monday. he answered a lot of questions. there are still some questions to be put. i believe that some of you from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) will go to washington and will have the opportunity to put questions on your own and receive clarifications. under-secretary cohen has assured us that there has been no breach of the agreement and that the nsa does not have direct access to the swift database in europe, and i have asked to get that in writing. we also discussed in detail what many of you mentioned in this letter on other swift formats. as you know, there are other swift formats used by financial institutions worldwide. this is also indicated in the preamble of our agreement. they are not covered by our agreement. for instance, it could be a swift format that comes from a third country which is in another investigation, and they alert the nsa or the american authorities for normal police work and law enforcement investigation. that is not a breach of the agreement. i have asked for more clarification to fully understand how this works and to be absolutely sure that these mechanisms are not in conflict with the tftp agreement. i also asked about the manual that some of you referred to and which has also been referred to in the media. in answer to this, under-secretary cohen told me that nsa officials are given training on how financial systems work and how a swift format message is interpreted, but he assured me that nsa officials are not trained to track down the codes of swift and do not access the tftp database illegally. so this is where we are for the moment. we are still waiting for some more clarifications and some in writing. then we have the broader work that goes on in different working groups – the work that you are doing here in the committees of inquiry, the commission (dg home together with dg just) and the lithuanian presidency. we have this working group on data protection, because we have all been alarmed about the nsa and about alleged spying on european citizens. i am also concerned about this, and we take it very seriously. we are having discussions, which we hope will lead to some concrete proposals on how to improve data protection for european citizens. we also followed very closely what president obama actually said: namely, that this might have gone too far and that he is seeking support in congress to regulate more clearly what the nsa does and does not do. but as i have said before, at this stage our contacts with swift and the us government have not revealed any evidence that the tftp agreement has been violated. therefore, i do not intend to propose a suspension of the agreement.
in writing. – innocent until proven guilty. i do not agree with the witch-hunt certain groups in the eu are launching towards our us counterparts based on information they find in the news. the democratic world can be only grateful to investigative journalism for exposing malpractices; nevertheless, in order to take serious political decisions with consequences, we need hard proof. in the case of the nsa taking advantage of our swift information exchange system, having allegedly stolen data and tapped personal financial data, we do not have any hard proof yet. i share the concerns of commissioner malmström that we need credible explanation from the us side, but until then, we cannot call off a very important information exchange system, which took a long time to come into force, to protect european citizens from data abuse. i call for common sense and not taking decisions based on emotions. if the allegations prove to be true, then i am sure the eu will take the necessary consequences and we in the european parliament will support that.
in writing. – the eu regards itself as a champion of human rights and a defender of freedom of speech. yet we are witnessing its ‘strategic partner’ fining, imprisoning or otherwise persecuting human-rights and environmental activists and civil society at large. meanwhile, the eu is not only conducting business as usual with russia, but actually selling it more weapons. i fear that this approach to the problems regarding russia will bring nothing of use to future eu-russia relations. ceterum censeo, france has sold a mistral-class warship to russia, and i am convinced that it will regret its action.
in writing. the placing on the market and the disposal of batteries and accumulators are primarily concerned with environmental protection. the report by mep panayotov makes a significant addition to the mercury-containing button elements. it is important that the relevant nodal elements can be properly assembled and that the potential risk of environmental pollution arising from them is minimised.
mr president, statistics indicate that the majority of acts of religious violence nowadays are committed against christians. i think there is a risk that the majority of christians will soon be driven out from the ancient territories in the middle east which are the cradle of christianity. so there is a risk for christian heritage and culture as a whole, and the maaloula attacks go in that direction. i would also draw attention to the fate of saeed abedini, a pastor who has been jailed for more than a year in iran, but our appeal is to the commission and our high representative to turn increased attention and support to the victims of religious intolerance. resolutions are not enough. we need action today.
in writing. − given that the existing legal framework on medical devices is twenty years old and has undergone many changes, i supported the report, which aims to ensure patient safety and to introduce appropriate changes. one of the major changes that should ensure patient safety in the future is the introduction of the so-called implant card system, which will allow patients and doctors to access data on devices on the market in order to choose the most appropriate, high-quality and safe solution. it is also important for the safety of patients that medical devices intended for single use are not used repeatedly, and therefore it is essential that the person or institution reusing the device be held responsible for the consequences. the possibility of infection or complication in health care facilities due to carelessness and so-called thrift is unacceptable. this attitude and practice will cost our society many times over.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering the importance of the further development and sustainability of european civil society. despite the fact that the public sector was the one that cut back most in supporting civil society organisations in the context of the economic and financial crisis, increasing funding alone is not the most important means of ensuring the sustainability of civil society. above all, civil society organisations must be treated as equal partners with a strong, competent and important role in decision-making processes. but what matters is the content and the result, not how it looks. i also see as a threat the activities of political organisations in subjugating or exploiting apolitical civil society associations for their own narrow interests. such actions undermine the credibility of a democratic civil society and hinder its development.
in writing. − given the high level of youth unemployment, still above 20% in the eu this year and even above 50% in some member states, it is high time we started to tackle this problem in depth. the implementation of the youth guarantee is an effective tool for this, but we have no reason to train new unemployed people who cannot find a job in the field of study. education and real needs need to be brought together, and there is no point in 'inventing the bicycle', just more cooperation with employers. various studies have shown that when educational institutions actively cooperate with employers, learners find jobs more easily after completing their education. in some fields, such as it and environmental technology, learners are recruited from 'the school bench'. life is constantly changing and you just have to keep up with it, which is why you also have to focus on adult education and lifelong learning programmes and on ensuring their quality. for these reasons, i also supported this report, which once again highlights the important issues that need to be resolved urgently.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. although europe could be considered a safe haven in terms of healthcare, a lot still needs to be done to improve patients’ safety. in total, 30-40 % of adverse events are preventable. approximately 20 % of healthcare-associated infections could be prevented; lives saved and costs of about eur 3.7 million could be used elsewhere. to improve the situation, first and foremost, we have to ensure adequate technical, financial and human resources to minimise the current biggest risk-causing adverse events. sufficient budgetary allocation and trained staff both in hospitals, in home care and any healthcare professionals and volunteers are key to reducing considerably the risks for patient safety. the core element is prevention, which starts in training healthcare professionals, specifically in patient safety, which is not necessarily the case now. training professionals, but also patients and their carers, in personal hygiene, especially hand hygiene, is also essential. preferring safer alternatives to prescribing antibiotics and teaching patients appropriate handling must be reinforced. lastly, we need more data and we need to share more of this data. feedback both from patients and health professionals on better patient safety and empowering patients is crucial to improve the systems.
in writing. − i think the comments made by many politicians that we do not have enough money to fund medicine to ensure adequate patient safety and quality of care are correct. to deal with the consequences of austerity and negligence, but money, it seems, is. it's time to stop fighting the consequences all the time, it's time to start caring about the person, too, not to run this big mess for the interests of a small interest group that makes huge profits. in the light of the above, i also supported this own-initiative report, which considers it important to ensure patient safety and to establish a european nomenclature and standards for this purpose. the most important is effective prevention through training of healthcare staff, ensuring the quality and cleanliness of medical devices and conducting research to control infections. of course, the latter will only be effective if their results are taken into account and real steps are taken to address the shortcomings and ensure patient safety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. this report concentrates justly on misleading advertisement practices targeted mainly at businesses, but especially on smes. both smes and public authorities suffer most from such practices and often bear considerable costs in relation to their income. reporting such incidents may be personally embarrassing, but for businesses it can also be a tricky issue not to lose credibility. we need stronger rules in this regard. only austria and belgium have adopted legal measures to officially combat misleading advertisement and economic practices. it is important that other member states follow suit, as often misconduct crosses national borders, and we need all of europe to be strong in this fight. blacklisting businesses that have repeatedly misbehaved, and sharing this information with wider public nationally and also with other member states, would have a good preventive effect on future attempts. creating national focal points where misconduct can be reported would be an easy way for victims to seek for assistance and allow law enforcement authorities to tackle the issue more efficiently.
in writing. – european eastern neighbourhood is eu’s strategic interest as well as commitment. while russia exercises heavy political and economic pressure on the eanp states it is eu´s special opportunity and responsibility to stay committed in supporting the eanp countries on their way towards rule of law. it is also in eu’s strategic interests to sign the association agreement with ukraine, as majority of ukrainians have decided to support european integration! the issue of politically motivated trials remains; however, the humanitarian solution concerning yulia tymoshenko seems to offer possible political solution. eu needs to engage itself actively in mediating a solution in the nagorno-karabakh conflict, which will relieve armenia and azerbaidzhan from external dependency. lastly, i am alarmed about eu’s continuing inactivity versus georgia. russia is pursuing borderisation of s-ossetia, increasing the russian military presence there, while eu observers are still being denied access to the break-away provinces. just now the possibility to monitor what is happening there is crucial. the russian failure during the last five years to honour its commitments can only be answered by a decisive eu reaction, making further progress of mutual relations conditional to moscow’s credible change of its policies.
mr president, i listened very carefully to the speech by the high representative, and i think the european union does a lot in the field of common foreign and security policy – but we definitely need to do even more. i do not want to go into small details in my short statement; rather, i would like to concentrate on some general remarks on what i see in the current common foreign and security policy of the european union. i believe that the economic recession has left its mark on several areas in the eu, including the cfsp. therefore, i fully welcome this report by mr brok, and i believe it offers a clear and decisive strategy that will improve the union’s effectiveness as a cohesive global player. there is an absolute necessity for the european union to formulate a clear, coherent, priority-based and progressive international strategy which aims to anticipate, prevent and shape the unfolding situations around the world. furthermore, the european union is one of the few international actors whose foreign policy is not only informed by its economic and political interests but also anchored in fundamental values and principles that define its very normative identity. together with the parliamentary scrutiny of the foreign policy, such a norms-based international strategy will not only increase our credibility but will also help to mobilise support from other international parties, including from ngos. last but not least, it will be virtually impossible to implement any new strategy that we come up with without a coherent coordination of international actions amongst the european capitals and without a stronger role of the high representative on foreign affairs and security policy. this has enormous importance in ensuring the unity, consistency and effectiveness of our actions, and it is vital if the eu is to make a significant difference in the international arena.
mr president, our main practical task is to try to enhance cooperation and the efficiency of the eu common foreign and security policy (cfsp) – it is a process of global transformation. the eu is poised to be a global actor. however, to perform this role, the cfsp has yet to obtain common determination and genuine credibility. that means applying conditionality and reciprocity as fundamental criteria, especially in dealing with authoritarian regimes. iran continues to be a test case of such conditionality and reciprocity: while reacting to the so-called liberal president, one should also face the real situation there. one credible signal is there: finally, international sanctions have started to bite. this seems to be the real cause of change in tehran’s rhetoric. iran’s main concern is still to get rid of sanctions first, not to open up first or stop their secret programmes. reciprocity is crucial now, when every gain of time by tehran could mean successful completion of their weapons of mass destruction. tehran will not change without a strict conditionality, which means that, for every real loosening of sanctions, our partner has to answer immediately in the same hard currency, not through hints of change.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament's resolution rejecting the council's proposals to reduce spending on employment and research in 2014 as being incompatible with the priorities of the next year's budget, such as sustainable growth, the fight against youth unemployment, competitiveness, the eu's role in the world and job creation. these cuts are also in direct contradiction with the political agreement on the mff concerning the concentration of appropriations at the beginning of the period. the solution is not a simple arithmetic cut, without digging deep and thinking about the consequences. of course, the eu budget must be used efficiently to ensure that any action financed by the eu budget has a clear added value. instead, savings should be made by duplicating different activities, not at the expense of eu priorities. member states should cooperate more closely and, in particular, find a way to share tasks among themselves.
in writing. − i voted in line with the original proposal by the european commission that aims to assure the sustainability of fish stocks now and also in the future. first, we need adequate data on the current situation concerning fish stocks and our seas. whereas the baltic sea is almost 75% researched and mapped, the black sea on the other hand is a tabula rasa and in the mediterranean area it is only about a quarter. our internal seas have very fragile ecosystems which are largely not sufficiently researched; it should be our first task to complete data collection in this regard. also, the control and enforcement of data collection has to be strengthened; member states need to take their responsibility in this regard seriously. i am very glad that the vote was in favour of a reasonable approach and is not supporting increasing or renewing the fleet.
in writing. – the ep has achieved substantial success in providing flexibility in using its financial means and in creating more inter-sectorial synergies. also, the ep has managed to align the freight corridors with the new multimodal ten-t core network corridors. these changes support innovative, flexible and future-oriented thinking. regarding ten-t, the ep has reached essential agreements. binding deadlines, member states’ and the commission’ strengthened obligation to report, and throughout all financial instruments, stronger involvement of regional and local authorities in the planning and implementation phase. all these measures will lead towards better connected transport-europe, enabling at the same time to connect different european decision making levels. i congratulate lithuanian presidency on final agreements of these complicated dossiers. now, we need concrete projects to fill the political ambitions. i urge the lithuanian presidency to use its remaining time, to make rail baltic project one of its key connecting europe priorities. there is a strategic need to end the isolation of the baltic region from the rest of europe. short-term gains vis-à-vis our eastern neighbours may fill our pockets today, but tomorrow we need a much more integrated europe, we need rail baltic.
in writing. dear director, dear colleagues! the connecting europe facility is a new eu financial instrument that forms part of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the cef shall include physical investments that are essential for the achievement of european integration. this fund is a very important investment in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, accelerating investment in trans-european networks through public and private financing. the connecting europe facility includes a €10 billion redeployment of cohesion fund money to implement projects in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, contributing to the acceleration of eu integration and the harmonisation of technical infrastructure through a number of key projects. with an investment of 10 billion euros, we can start to repair and build the core network. this investment is particularly important for the countries of eastern europe, as it provides the opportunity to connect with central europe as well as to have better and faster access to western europe. it will also help to reduce the isolation of the baltic region. the financial instrument provides for the possibility to apply for aid to finance identified cross-border projects which, due to the difficult economic situation in several member states, would not be possible without the support of the european union. the connecting europe facility allows the cohesion countries to receive 85% of the eu's aid for financing projects. the cef also contributes to growth and jobs in europe, in particular the creation of modern links between the different member states of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new multiannual financial framework of the eu for the period 2014-2020. parliament has achieved its main aims regarding the mff, namely to cover the budget claims of 2013 (to the tune of an extra eur 3.9 billion) and the interinstitutional agreement which lays down the necessary legal bases, especially with regard to cohesion, regional and agricultural funds in full respect of the european parliament’s legislative powers. i am very glad that my group, the epp group, has managed to ensure that the mff will have full flexibility in terms of transferring unused funds from one year to another and great flexibility between the categories. special flexibility has been guaranteed to the funds aimed at tackling youth unemployment, in real terms over eur 2 billion in 2014-2015. this is transferring words into deeds. also, thanks to the epp, the unity of the budget and maximum transparency are guaranteed, meaning that all eu expenditure and revenue must be budgeted in order to guarantee democratic accountability. in addition, a midterm review/revision is foreseen – to be undertaken latest by 2016 – based on the economic situation at that moment, which will make it possible for the ep to reassess the budgetary priorities.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament and the council have finally reached a fairly good compromise on the 2014-2020 budgetary framework, which is why i supported its adoption. i commend the work of our members of the european parliament, who have done a good job in negotiating with the council, where it has finally been realised that parliament is no longer merely an advisory institution under the lisbon treaty, but a co-decision-maker. we realise that the financial and economic crisis calls for greater austerity and that the budgetary framework for the next seven years will be reduced for the first time in the community's history. cohesion is necessary, but we must not do it just for the sake of cutting without going deep into the matter. we cannot accept a budget which is contrary to our principles, which is heavily skewed in its expenditure-revenue ratio and which has no real cover for expenditure. i am therefore pleased that the council gave its support to the allocation of additional funds of eur 11,2 billion to the 2013 budget and the commitment to review expenditure in 2016. europe needs a sustainable budget that will revive our economy and offer solutions to various problems such as high youth unemployment and marginalisation. i believe that the 2014-2020 budgetary framework approved by the european parliament is finally ready to meet the challenges that europe faces now and in the near future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. ‘erasmus for all’ will provide continuity and improve the programmes targeted at young people in europe and beyond. i welcome the agreement reached on keeping all the programmes under separate headings. this was one of the main priorities for parliament. erasmus may be the most popular and the biggest programme of all the programmes under this heading, but we have to be very clear that as a subprogram it is strictly targeting young people in higher education, whereas comenius is aimed at school pupils and erasmus mundus is for exchanges throughout the world. ‘youth in action’, on the other hand, reaches out to far more young people and is especially important, as it also reaches young people outside formal education. in addition, through the variation of offers it provides an opportunity for young people to develop into active citizens, to learn from peers, to experience and exercise democracy and gain skills through non-formal and informal education. our next step needs to be to ensure that all skills acquired, regardless of whether in formal or non/in-formal education, are recognised throughout europe. i also welcome the new student loan guarantee facility that will provide greater mobility and new opportunities for masters students.
in writing. - dear director, my dear colleagues! at today's plenary session, i supported the connecting europe facility, a new eu financial instrument that is part of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the connecting europe facility contains investments that are essential for the physical integration of europe. this fund is a very important investment in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, accelerating investment in trans-european networks through public and private financing. i fully support the transfer of eur 10 billion from the cohesion fund to projects in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, as this will help to accelerate the integration of the eu and the harmonisation of technical infrastructure through a number of important projects. with an investment of 10 billion euros, we can start to repair and build the core network. the investment in eastern europe is particularly important, as it provides the opportunity to connect with central europe as well as better and faster access to western europe. it will also help to reduce the current isolation of the baltic region. i also support the fact that the financial instrument creates the possibility to apply for aid to finance certain cross-border projects which, due to the difficult economic situation in several member states, would not be possible without the support of the european union. the connecting europe facility allows the cohesion countries to receive 85% of the eu's aid for financing projects. i also support the connecting europe facility because it contributes to economic growth and job creation in europe, in particular the creation of modern communities between the different member states of the european union.
in writing. - dear director, my dear colleagues! at today's plenary session, i supported the regulation on the trans-european transport network, which creates an internal transport network within the european union. the aim of the transport network is to eliminate bottlenecks at the border, to build missing links, to modernise infrastructure and to ensure better and safer movement of passengers and goods within the european union. the ten regulation includes the establishment of a core and a comprehensive network. the core network consists of 10 main transport corridors across europe, which should be completed by 2030 and have been designed to high standards. it is very significant that this regulation will help to connect 86 major european ports, 37 key airports and, in the process, will build 15 000 km of high-speed rail and implement 35 projects to help reduce crossborder bottlenecks. the comprehensive network should be established by 2050 and should cover the outermost regions of the european union. i support the ten-t regulation as it covers all modes of transport and helps to improve overall competitiveness, reduce the environmental footprint of the transport sector and improve the functioning of the single market by combining the capacity of countries to cooperate. at the same time, it will also help to improve the accessibility of goods and people to the peripheral areas of the european union.
in writing. - i support the proposal to limit the delegation of power to the commission for five years. this gives the european parliament the assurance that, after a sufficient 'transition period', the institutions have put in place the appropriate understandings and procedures. the proposal is in particular in line with the interinstitutional agreement already reached and provides for sufficient flexibility in the renewal of delegated powers.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for the great work they have done. the report under consideration is of fundamental importance for the new financial period. the report has been developed in a positive way compared to the initial position. national ceilings on the use of funds, the amount of eu co-financing, the eligibility of non-refundable vat all these provisions have changed in the course of the discussions and make the implementation of cohesion instruments in the member states much more favourable. my home country, estonia, can certainly be satisfied with that.
over a hundred years ago, women fought for the right to go to school and get an education. imagine what europe would be like today if there had been no movements to educate girls; if half of the working age population had been educated. think about what our economy and society would be like then. for the good of us all, these movements were successful, and today, on average, 60% of university and postgraduate graduates in the european union are women, but how many of these educated and competent women have reached the level of economic decision-making? - marginally. what a waste of resources. the question is, would we be in an economic crisis if economic decision-making were more gender balanced? and i answer: all the studies have shown that gender-balanced decisions are more effective. the next question is, should politicians dictate how companies organize their leadership structures? albert einstein said that you can't solve a problem with the same level of knowledge that created it. so we have to intervene. there's been talk about this since the treaties of rome and it's over 60 years old. we'll pass that directive tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we have treaties currently in europe which allow institutional bureaucracies in the commission and the member statesʼ ministers to take all kinds of decisions, whereas their directly-elected citizensʼ representatives are extremely limited in their legislative powers. hence we need to change the treaties, and let me note that vice-president mcmillan-scott has done a great deal towards achieving that goal. having said ‘a’ we must go on and say ‘b’. here, i am afraid that most colleagues would instinctively say that ‘b’ means brussels. that would be a grave mistake, because it would illustrate that members do not think about anything other than how to be close to the executive power. we are elected to represent citizens, not to be the lèches-bottes of numerous commissioners. and why brussels? prague has a much more central position, has it not? krakow as well. zagreb has much nicer weather than brussels! europe has once again enlarged, and all those who hurry to brussels should take that into account. so let us vote for this report and make it clear that we are not going to misuse the new right to name the seat. it has been named. it is in strasbourg. in order to achieve economic efficiency and environmental targets, the solution is as simple as that: let us stop travelling to brussels. the aesthetical gain will come with it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to add my colleague's words to the above and emphasise that the european union and the world perhaps more than ever need a strong world trade organisation. the crisis has shown that it is wto legislation that has largely protected us from the protectionist policies that are common in times of crisis. however, work on structural reforms must continue. the european union should therefore take a leading role in the wto negotiations. the aim should be to extend market access and to defend the interests of european union entrepreneurs, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, including in the areas of freedom of transit and customs cooperation, which would allow for political agreement on the text of the trade facilitation agreement. the european union, as the largest exporter of services, attaches particular importance to the wto's priority of eliminating barriers to trade and investment in the services sector and therefore the work on a multilateral agreement on trade in services should continue. it is also essential that all member states strictly comply with the wto conditions and that there is no situation where a member state violates them by applying economic sanctions or unilaterally changing trade tariff quotas. it is therefore necessary to improve the wto enforcement mechanism to make it even more effective. thank you.
mr president, i point out to the commissioner that a comprehensive doha development agenda would enable the world’s exports to increase by more than eur 300 billion, or more than 2 %. especially in today’s situation, we need to do everything we can to implement more decisively and widely a fair and non-discriminatory trade system based on shared rules and the adoption of international standards. but for that, of course, structural reform of the world trade organisation is needed, and first of all everybody needs to be taken on board. still, we need to concentrate on priorities. firstly, to reduce trade and investment barriers that affect service sectors, including ict and telecommunications, e-commerce and financial services. secondly, there must be a greater focus on the interests of smes in international trade, which means simplifying rules. thirdly, these developed countries must be helped, which means also embracing the eu’s ‘everything but arms’ initiative, which offers ldcs 100 % duty-free and quota-free market access. finally, to preserve the eu’s creditability, it would be good to reduce the eu’s trade-distorting agricultural subsidies by 80 %.
respected director, respected commissioner! we have a compromise to support. a very big job has been done. to describe this work, let us mention the 8000 amendments which have been debated in this chamber. the compromise is balanced: there are those elements which are mandatory for the member states, such as greening, and on the other hand there is also the possibility of a great deal of flexibility. and indeed, the member states are currently watching with great interest how this flexibility is being used. and i think it would be very interesting for us here in the european parliament to have feedback on what elements of this flexibility have actually been used in the member states. as regards greening, it is clear that in some member states, such as my home country of estonia, the use of land with ecological use, for example, is quite difficult to explain. this is in countries with very high forest cover, and yet it is clear that these are sparsely populated countries. but these things we survive, anyway in today's case it comes... (the chairman interrupted the speaker.)
in writing. − i supported the adoption of the directive because the past has shown that self-regulation does not achieve a gender balance in economic decision-making. self-regulation doesn't work in the practical life of a male network. since the treaties of rome, that is, for 60 years, we have only been talking about this subject, but the directive gives us the opportunity to act. the quota is not a premium for an unqualified woman, the quota is an opportunity for a qualified woman to participate in the management and decision-making of the economy. the quota is not a hammer, it's just a measure to help break the glass ceiling of underrepresented sex. it is a measure to guarantee the fundamental rights of both men and women. on the other hand, it is a measure to achieve economic success and a measure to stop the waste of human resources.
in writing. − the regulation on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy is an important part of the cap reform package. the proposal lays down the provisions for the financing of the cap, the specific provisions for the accounting of grants and the systems. it is of the utmost importance that the payment of agricultural aid respects the public interest and the objective of the aid. i consider it very important that the follow-up checks and the associated sanctions are proportionate to the infringement.
in writing. − rural development aid has an impact that goes beyond the borders of the member states and is the most appropriate instrument for achieving public interest and benefit objectives. the programme nature of rural development support is important in this respect, as it guarantees both the annual fulfilment of the commitment and its financing. the implementation of rural development support must be firmly geared to structural expenditure in the member states. simplification of the programming of rural development support is to be welcomed, as is respect for member states' subsidiarity.
in writing. − the compromise on the single market organisation regulation has been reached in a situation where the cap is becoming increasingly complex and politicised. the proposal for a single market organisation is one of the most important aspects of agricultural policy, since it deals with the organisation of production. the proposals will provide clarity and consistency for the different sectors with regard to the future. without such certainty, it is very difficult for sectors to plan their activities in the current economic situation.
in writing. − i supported this report as a sensible compromise and a major step towards fairer direct payments to european farmers. by 2020, farmers in different member states should receive at least 72% of the eu average direct payment payments, which is still a significant improvement given the current large gap in direct payments, where, for example, estonia received only 44% of the eu average. the plan proposed by the parliament gives estonia a 95% increase in direct payments between the two periods, in a situation where direct payments have decreased in 11 out of 27 countries. of course, the alignment of direct payments could be speeded up, but given the current reality of the way in which the corresponding resources are being reduced, we can be satisfied. i also think it is important to introduce environmentally friendly farming practices, whereby 30% of the direct support budget of the member states can only be used for the use of environmentally friendly farming practices.
in writing. −the direct payments regulation is one of the central topics of the cap reform package, as it deals in detail with farmer incomes. the compromise reached is balanced between mandatory and voluntary elements for the member states and supports the principle of subsidiarity between member states. the most important achievements are in particular the rationalisation of greening provisions and the support for young producers. the direct payments regulation is arguably the most eloquent expression of the ep's political will to support the environment through the greening component, support young producers and limit subsidies.
in writing. − the transition rate is of crucial importance in the implementation of the cap reform package. the proposal sends a clear message to farmers that the cap and the subsidies will continue in 2014 in a situation where the delay in the reform talks means that the new cap will not be launched in the first year. the proposal also allows for a smooth transition for member states' administrations before the implementation of the reform package.
in writing. - i voted against this report as a form of pre-election populism designed to divert attention from the issues at hand and win cheap popularity. the seat of the european parliament has long been established in the treaties and the power to change it lies with the council, where it needs the approval of all member states. it is clear that france, a founding member of the eu, will not give up the seat of the european parliament today, as the various eu institutions are also located in other member states and the relocation of the parliament from strasbourg would be a great loss for the region. the fact that the own-initiative report does not contain any specific reference to where parliament should remain is not entirely correct when reading the content of the report. nor can we take seriously the explanations that a single seat for parliament would save a lot of money, because it is a rather small sum in terms of the overall size of the budget, while the presence of parliament in strasbourg is very important for the region. or is the mps' talk about the importance of regional policy just a figure of speech, without any regard for the substance? i believe that this issue needs to be addressed and have signed an online petition with a million eu citizens to address this issue in its entirety. the ball is now in the council's courtroom, because that is what the treaty of lisbon requires. so let us respect what is acceptable and not engage in fast-paced substitute work.
madam president, today’s debate, based upon two excellent reports, is our message for the december defence council. we expect to see a strong political commitment and complete decisions on eu priorities on the csdp. crucial decisions also have to be taken on the future development of the industrial and technological basis of european defence, which needs to remain europe-based. this means agreeing upon a long-term strategy and building a clear vision about the common challenges to european security. clearly, we cannot afford the luxury of delaying or watering down such decisions any longer. hoping to address the situation just by creating synergies, pooling and sharing is a partial solution and is not sufficient. the economic crisis has seriously weakened the eu’s defence potential as defence budgets have been the first victims of austerity. the overall security situation in our immediate neighbourhood is worsening. against this background, it is regrettable that the commission and the external action service have not yet come forward with a joint position for the december defence council. cyber security is one of our common worries, and i would repeat my colleague, ms schaake’s, question on how we are going to react to cyber-attacks on our strategic infrastructures. finally, the commissioner mentioned de gasperi’s dream of a common european security and defence policy. i feel that, after sixty years, it is time to make this dream a reality.
in writing. – first of all i would thank the rapporteur for the work done. this is a critical issue the eu – both its institutions and member states – should focus more on. not least because defence is not a thing of the past and history has not come to an end; but more because if we do not scrutinise and help shape the defence realm, things can go from bad to worse. the mistral case is a critical reminder of a narrow member states’ self-interest scenario devoid of any respect for human rights and respect for law. ceterum censeo, i am convinced france will sincerely regret its decision to sell a mistral-class warship to russia.
in writing. − i voted in favour this report. i am glad that the negotiations with the council have been successful, so that we could also adopt the cosme during this plenary. the new mentality of allowing flexibility in financial instruments of the eu also applies to cosme, which makes loan guarantees and an equity facility available for smes. although the innovation and start-ups will be mainly financed through horizon 2020, we need to ensure the complementarity of different programmes. the overall goal should be building an innovative europe based on strong smes. only 2.5% nevertheless is foreseen to promote entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship education – here we clearly need to ensure complementarity with programmes under erasmus+. we need more young entrepreneurs, and we need even more the young people with an entrepreneurial mind-set. this should be one of europe’s main priorities. the 11% foreseen to reduce the administrative and regulatory burden should be used wisely and lead to real results. sme sustainability cannot be guaranteed when, instead of doing business, most time is spent on complying with administrative and bureaucratic regulation. the epp group has made this one of its priorities and was able to ensure its inclusion also in cosme.
in writing. − the autonomous trade preferences (atps) granted by the eu to the republic of moldova have been an important legislative tool, due to which many moldovan products have free access to the eu common market. as moldova has successfully negotiated but not yet signed the following step towards even greater economic integration with the eu – the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement – the validity of the atps must be ensured until the new framework enters into force. thus the validity of the atps has been renewed, for next year, by means of this regulation. moreover, as moldovan wine exports have been banned from the russian market, the eu has a duty and an obligation to help moldovan wine producers and to open up european markets to them now already, without waiting for the dcfta to enter into force. thus, wine products are now deleted from the list of exceptions to the goods with free access to the unionʼs market, which will, undoubtedly, give the moldovan wine industry an opportunity for modernisation, development and growth.
in writing. − environmental protection is not only a fundamental value that we all stand for, but also an integral part of the very fabric of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. therefore, measures taking into account environmental sensitivities must be brought into the implementation of the unionʼs policies and activities. deep-sea fishing is no exception in this regard. it has been proven via numerous studies that deep-sea fishing with bottom trawls not only produces huge amount of by-catches but also leaves behind permanent damage to the whole ecosystem. considering especially that deep-sea fish stocks and coral reefs take many decades and sometimes centuries to recover, bottom trawling makes no economic sense. but many valuable species may have already been lost due to this practice. therefore, since amendments 7 and 8 to this resolution, which were to prohibit deep-sea fishing with bottom trawls, were not supported in the plenary session, i voted against the adoption of the entire resolution. because, any resolution that does not address the issue of the destruction of deep-sea ecosystems will do nothing but distract public attention from the matter of urgent concern.
in writing. − the initial motion for a resolution on sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr), prepared under the coordination of edite estrela, which failed to be voted, brought up issues of vital importance for all european citizens. the degree to which sexual and reproductive health and rights are ensured varies among the member states. even though the policies in this field are the competence of the national governments, it is the right and the duty of parliament to reveal the drawbacks and to encourage member states to provide equal access to affordable, equitable and high-quality healthcare services and preventive care. sexual and reproductive rights, including the right to maternal healthcare and family planning, are based on general human rights of equality and dignity, and should be taken very seriously, not only by the eu, but also around the world. taking into account the worrying situation in this regard in the developing countries, the eu should produce its own policy commitments and also take up its role as an international player promoting, defending and enforcing srhr worldwide.
in writing. - i voted against the proposals put forward by the conservatives (ppe, ecr) because they were unfortunately not in line with the principles set out in the estrela report to ensure gender equality through safe pregnancy and childbirth, considered and quality abortion and comprehensive sexuality education. 'bury the conservatives like a shark' is not the answer, and the 19th century backwardness is not sustainable or compatible with the 21st century. women must have the right to choose: their health and their future are at stake. if the european parliament respects gender equality as enshrined in the eu treaties, then it must also take these as a basis, rather than following the example of totalitarian states where people are treated as objects who have no right to decide for themselves. eu countries, with their 19th century backwardness on this issue, have shown that it is a major threat to women's health. for example, in ireland, poland, and malta, where abortion is illegal, illegal and substandard abortions are performed, leaving many women never to have children again. of course, timely and comprehensive sex education, which is considered unhealthy by some conservatives, would help prevent unwanted pregnancies. it's ineffective to constantly deal with the consequences and to destroy the lives of young people through ignorance and denial.
mr president, i think post-vilnius has shown that despite the official line in kiev the ukrainian people have passed their own verdict in favour of europe and it is clear that this verdict cannot be overturned. it is also clear that there is no chance for the european union to ignore this verdict. i think, as the commissioner put it, we are associated with ukraine by spirit, the spirit of this people’s brave initiative. but there are two strategic conclusions to be drawn from the situation. the first is to make a geopolitical choice, and this is a choice not only for ukraine but also for europe’s future. this is a choice between a rule-of-law society and a prosperous economy and, on the other hand, continuous post-soviet misery, uncertainty, bullying and corruption. to choose the latter would pose a security risk for us too. the second conclusion is that geopolitics has become a reality for us. it is time to realise that russia’s strategic goals differ in principle from those of the eu and are mostly opposed to ours. so instead of convincing mr putin i think first we need to provide an adequate, symmetric and forceful response to russia’s economic and political warfare, conducted not only against eastern partnership countries but also against some member countries.
mr. chairman, history has once again shown that ukraine is at the center of the samuel huntington power line, the flashpoint. if you even look back in history, the battle of poltava in 1709, peter i fought charles xii over the ukraine. and it's remarkable that even then, ukraine was already divided into two eastern and western ukraine, where people had very different opinions. in 2004, the ukrainian people chose the european path, which was continued until the end. and now there are question marks in the air. what's this year? what's going to happen next year? i believe that the european union must be very pragmatic about how and what it offers to the people of eastern ukraine, to the tens of thousands of people who are in heavy industry. and the big question is, who is going to provide the security of ukraine in the broadest sense? the european liberals held a press conference today, which was also attended by skype by mr. mikola katerynchuk. and of course we will continue to support the ukrainian protesters, the peaceful protesters, until such time as an association agreement is signed between the european union and ukraine. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. – the commission seems to continue to praise its victorious, even historical vilnius summit. quite frankly the only thing more ridiculous has been the eu foreign ministers attending kiev and not doing a single thing there other than legitimising ukraine܀s decision to act against its protesters. a battle of poltava perhaps should have been mentioned in kiev, not here in a peaceful and comfortable plenary hall. also, it has been mentioned today that business as usual will continue soon after the protests. no need to wait that long – ‘business as usualʼ between russia and france was conducted already before, during and after the georgian-russian conflict. ‘ceterum censeoʼ, france has decided to sell its mistral warships to russia. we believe it will regret its actions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the instrument for stability has been transferred into an instrument for stability and peace, but the parliament can be satisfied with the mainly horizontal approach. this means common rules that apply to all instruments and will ensure more coherence and better coordination. there is a need to enhance complementarity between different instruments, avoiding overlap, but also to ensure that there can be continuity of instruments if needed. the eu now has the instruments and means for more efficient conflict prevention, crisis response and peace building. flexibility is an important element to enhance efficiency, and in the new instrument 21% of the means can now be distributed according to the current needs. i would also underline the importance of public health in this regulation, which would provide assistance in the case of, for example, pandemics. finally, cybersecurity has been included in the instrument for stability and peace. however, i think this should only be provided in the case of serious cybercrimes, cross-border organised cybercrime and terrorist attacks. promoting the budapest convention and building up cybersecurity capacities should be financed from other appropriate means. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – in my understanding, the eu is based upon solidarity. assisting our neighbouring countries in case of need is our job.
madam president, i support the establishment of the partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries as it will increase our ability to engage internationally. that will make it possible to construct new relationships with countries not benefiting from bilateral development assistance. it is especially welcome that this financial instrument will allow us to defend eu core interests and to pursue agendas beyond development cooperation. more specifically, the partnership instrument will help implement the international dimension for the europe 2020 strategy, improve market access and develop trade, as well as increase the visibility of and knowledge about the european union. this instrument, with a budget of over eur 1.1 billion, is in the next mff and will be an integral part of external action. it will promote the eu and give the europe 2020 strategy a global reach.
on behalf of the ppe group i would like to thank you for your kind words. 2012 will be remembered with mixed emotions, as the euphoria of the arab spring was replaced by disappointment at the way the processes of change were unfolding. in many places, forces are at work to restrict the rights of women, minorities, and dissidents. we are following with concern developments in russia, where mass protests against the parliamentary elections and putin's decision to run for president again began in late 2011. if the demonstrations are a sign of hope for a quick change, putin's election has brought with it a series of repressive laws. freedom of speech and assembly were restricted, many civil society organisations were made agents of the state, the law on treason was extended to include any russian citizen who, for example, here in the european parliament, spoke about the human rights situation in russia. the count could go on. it is regrettable that this aggressive policy towards its own people has turned into blackmail against russia's neighbours this year. this is clearly seen in ukraine and in the other eastern partnership member states. thank you.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to congratulate first the rapporteur, our dear colleague mr kukan, for his success in drafting a comprehensive and well-balanced report on human rights in the world. as reiterated in the report, there was a significant breakthrough in the integration of human rights in the eu’s external relations last year. the adoption of the strategic framework has made it possible for our human rights policies to turn into tangible results that increase the protection of fundamental rights and values. without any doubt, the eu has become the biggest global power for protecting and promoting human rights in the world. for that reason, we bear an immense moral duty to continue along this path and not close our eyes to serious human rights breaches around the world. in the european parliament we talk about the issues. from the cultural genocide in tibet to the tragic death of sergei magnitsky, from the large-scale spying scandal to bloodshed in the central african republic, human rights are breached in the worst possible ways in different places around the world, and still there are many who do not care about these issues. our task as members of the european parliament is to open our national governments’ eyes and to ring the bell to wake them up, so that they implement value-based human rights policies. and i was sorry to listen to you, mr minister: that was a very formal speech, but you mentioned nothing about the concrete results that europe has achieved. i think that europe’s moral duty is to implement exactly those policies that we have been speaking about here in the european parliament over the years. last and not least, at every session here in strasbourg we talk about three urgent breaches of human rights around the world. unfortunately, the timing of the debate does not allow many colleagues to be present, and for that reason our position is often not heard enough. i believe this needs to change. in addition, i call for an increase in cooperation between parliament and the european union special representative for human rights, in order to coordinate actions.
mr president, one can say that the next major crisis in europe will, in all likelihood, be a security and defence crisis. our neighbourhood has become more unstable and unpredictable in all directions. terrorist attacks are likely to increase and spread. there are new threats of cyber-conflicts, partially sponsored by states. however, the biggest threat is the inadequacy of the eu to react efficiently to these threats. defence budgets have become the first victims of austerity. i am worried that the eu as a whole has not been able to react to this dilemma between increased threats and depleted defence capabilities. pooling and sharing is welcome but cannot be an adequate answer to our security. i think the councilʼs first task is to turn the tide of complacency and short-sightedness. our first job is to regain public support for the renewed defence efforts. in fact our citizens value their security above all other things, but it cannot be provided for free. russia poses a major challenge to eu objectives. it continues to modernise its army and spends more than 4% of its gdp on military purposes. we cannot deal efficiently with the present russian regime, which is engaged in economic and political warfare against eastern partners, which has invaded georgia and whose military doctrine justifies armed invasion of its neighbours. if we lack a credible defence capacity, if the eu does not take responsibility, the kremlin will feel free to advance its own objectives in ukraine, moldova, georgia, and also in the baltic states.
in writing. − the eu is an institution underpinned by universal principles, norms and values, which inform the union’s policies both domestically and with regard to third countries. in this regard, the european neighbourhood policy is designed to spread these values beyond the euʼs borders, which will set the foundation for prosperity and sustainable development in the european neighbourhood. however benevolent it might be, the eu’s strategy to spread democracy, respect for human rights and prosperity will not be able to achieve its benign goals without the union’s material support. the new eni is designed to achieve precisely this goal. based on the ‘differentiation' and 'more for more’ principles, the eni will enable the eu to significantly increase its support to those partners which genuinely strive to implement broader and comprehensive democratisation process, as well as streamline the scope and the focus of the eu assistance to the needs of individual projects. the assistance that the eu will be offering through the eni will determine not only the success of the enp alone. it will also support the eu’s global identity and image as a normative and transformative power. taking into account its both short and long terms promises, i voted in favour of the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it extremely important that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) should continue to operate for the next seven years, as despite some recovery in the european economy, there is still a fairly high level of unemployment, especially among young people. i therefore consider it important to support young entrepreneurship, which was also one of the fund's main priorities. i acknowledge the good work of mr harkin, who, in the negotiations with the council, stood for the continuation of a good egf and reached a reasonable compromise between the various parties. unfortunately, the initial 2014-2020 budget of the egf was reduced from eur 3 billion to eur 1 billion, but eur 150 million per year for the retraining of the unemployed is still a very important eu support to alleviate a rather difficult situation that still exists in many regions. for example, the commission estimates the reintegration rate of beneficiaries of the egf at 48%, which confirms that the egf is meeting its objective. as the application for egf support has been considerably simplified and the scope of the aid programme is extended to self-employed persons and to fixed-term contract workers, i hope that estonia will finally submit its first application for support for those in need. unfortunately, the estonian state has not done so in six years, despite the fact that the need for such assistance has been high among the working population.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. it is absolutely crucial that parliament and the eu remain vigilant in monitoring the human rights situation in the world. human rights violations have become severer and more frequent. human rights activists and defenders face repression and persecution, but ordinary people too are facing increasing difficulties, especially when they belong to religious minorities (such as christians) in the middle-east and africa. the ongoing conflicts both at global level and on europeʼs doorstep, and the current clashes in ukraine call for the eu to take up its responsibility as a human rights watchdog! i urge the council to come forward with council conclusions that would establish a common threshold in terms of human rights concerns. we need political commitment at the highest level. the eu needs to ensure that human rights are mainstreamed throughout eu foreign policy, from trade agreements to association agreements and are also at the centre of country strategies. we are in the final stage of adopting the budgets for the external financial instruments which will give new impetus to cfsp, but which are also a tangible means of getting our partners and third countries to commit to fulfilling their responsibilities on human rights.
in writing. − the eastern partnership summit in vilnius on 29 november 2013 was an important milestone measuring the success of eu policy in its eastern neighbourhood. the unexpected decision by the ukrainian authorities, led by president yanukovych, to put the signing of the association agreement with the eu on hold is deplorable, and the reaction of the people of ukraine who are protesting in kiev and other cities is an indication of the existing popular wish to integrate closer with the eu. that this was not heard by the ukrainian leadership is to be regretted. the eu remains open and ready to sign the association agreement with ukraine, provided that the conditions are met. some important agreements were concluded in vilnius with other eastern partnership countries however: association agreements (and dcftas) were initialled with moldova and georgia, a visa facilitation agreement between the eu and azerbaijan was signed, and a framework agreement on participation in eu crisis management operations was concluded with georgia. nonetheless, in view of the growing pressure being exerted by russia on the countries of the region, the eu should reinforce its policies in the eastern neighbourhood and grant more support for democratic developments in the region.
author. − mr president, each year it is estimated that thousands of human organ transplants are carried out in china and it is estimated too that more than 90% of organs are taken from executed prisoners. most of them are affiliated to falun gong’s spiritual practice, hundreds of thousands of whose practitioners have been arrested and executed in china over the past 14 years. also numerous tibetans and uighurs are among the victims. a huge shady and immoral business of organ selling to foreigners has developed in china and involves a number of non-chinese doctors. we asked the chinese authorities to put a stop to it immediately, and we also asked eu member states not only to raise the organ harvesting issue with the chinese government but to also condemn publicly the corrupt and immoral organ transportation business which is conducted at the expense of the lives of thousands of prisoners of conscience. finally, most importantly, all prisoners of conscience in china should be released immediately.
author. − mr president, voluntary and informed consent of the donor is the basis for ethical organ donation, not only according to world health organization rules, but also according to the principles of perhaps all existing collective systems of values. sufficient proof exists that organ harvesting does take place in china, especially from falun gong prisoners of conscience. it is the european parliament’s obligation to condemn decisively the actions of the chinese government in this appalling issue that strikes at the heart of human dignity and the fundamental right to life. the practice must be ended immediately, and the least the eu can do to stop it is to condemn publicly organ transplantation abuses in china and to inform those european citizens who travel to china for organ transplants that the organ source for their operation might be an executed prisoner.
