mr president, commissioner, adapting to rapidly changing circumstances is of course part of the normal business of business. structural changes and internal arrangements are often necessary to keep a company viable and to preserve jobs. companies must have a sufficiently flexible range of means of adaptation and adjustment. it is important that workers are properly informed about these. the report suggests that eu action in this area should respect the principle of subsidiarity, taking into account the fact that many countries already have national models for responding to sudden structural changes. on the other hand, for example in the nordic countries, there is a strong social dialogue to manage the processes of structural change. i therefore think that the report lacks the fact that, on the one hand, it emphasizes the existing models, the subsidiarity and proportionality principles and the exchange of best practice, but then asks the commission to propose legislation in accordance with the very detailed recommendations attached. i therefore support the principle that structural change requires substantial and good cooperation between the parties, where appropriate, but i hope that the commission will avoid new legislation that adds to the bureaucracy and will take into account that we have a lot of existing eu legislation that is adapted to structural change situations and, if necessary, improve it if it seems to be so.
madam president, my country, finland, has had very good experiences with the youth guarantee and 80% of finland’s unemployed youth have used the services. firstly, young people are making more enlightened decisions on the transition to work and, secondly, the employment services are being improved. but in order to support this european initiative, i think there is a need for jobs and if you look at the southern european situation it is important that inter-country transition should be possible under the new youth guarantee so that young people from spain can work in germany, for example. next, if it is going to be financed by the structural funds it is very important that these funds can be used to employ people in the employment services, otherwise the youth guarantee will not be worth anything.
mr president, it is certainly the first time in european history that a mass of well-educated, highly qualified young people are unemployed. it is very tragic. it's better to be in training than unemployed. but i fear that at worst, if this youth guarantee is not properly implemented, it will only be a new round of training for well-educated young people, for example, and that is a very bad thing. i do not understand, and i ask, how this equation is being implemented now, when at the same time the member states are cutting budgets for research and education and the european union is cutting its own budget, how is this youth guarantee really being implemented, if you cut back on education and then want to offer it to young people? if you really do not want to create new jobs and improve youth unemployment, you have to start with quality.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the authors of the report for their excellent reports. as has been said on many occasions, cohesion policy is, as today's debate shows, a very diverse and ambitious policy area. it is important that we also be able to secure the large sums of money needed for cohesion policy in the next financial period, as has been said. we have talked a lot about energy policy and it is important that in the coming period these cohesion funds should also be able to invest more in energy policy and in renewable energy in particular, because it creates jobs, it creates growth in many regions, including the more remote regions. regional cooperation also plays a very important role in this cohesion policy, because within regional cooperation we can exchange best practices between regions and countries. as regards financing, particularly in the area of regional cooperation, i am very concerned about the council's approach and that they are cutting very sharply from this regional cooperation package, even from the commission's proposal. if we compare parliament's position on this matter, the council is very much behind and not as ambitious as parliament. i hope that the commission will be firm when it comes to this financing of regional cooperation.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the treaties, rules of procedure and institutional affairs. - mr president, the commissioner has just said that he wants the eu to have an efficient and transparent administration. it requires a law and i would hope that the commissioner would give one during this term of office. before i came here, i posted on facebook that this is where the debate about good governance begins, and the first question was, do we need such a law? do we need laws everywhere? you don't need it everywhere. but i told the questioner that it might be in his interest to be treated unlawfully by an eu official. he could complain if there's a law. if there is no law, there is no appeal. also the benefit of the official in that there can be no unnecessary complaints and unnecessary accusations because the official has been given a code of conduct. that is not the case now, and i would really like commissioner šefčovič to act effectively and bring such a bill to our attention.
i voted in favour of this report. the eu's current regional policy has been criticised for not targeting funding only to poor and remote regions. i believe that the developed regions and cities also need special support. the need for support is particularly acute because most of our citizens now live in cities. cities also have a significant role to play in creating jobs, growth and overcoming the economic crisis. it is a fact that the future of humanity is in cities. as globalisation weakens the role of individual nation states, the role of cities as independent political and economic actors is growing again. this report will enable the eu to respond to local, regional and global changes and to improve the well-being of its citizens.
mr president, i did vote in favour of this report. the eu has lost two jobs for every one created as a result of structural change, and this change has affected millions of workers. while the eu cannot prevent global change on its own, it can choose how it responds to it. by reacting as quickly as possible, the eu has the chance to maintain its international competitiveness and at the same time the jobs of its citizens. however, maintaining competitiveness and adapting to change requires that workers' rights and skills are taken into account. for this reason, i think the idea of improving the position of workers is very welcome.
mr president, it is extremely important that the european union has a strategy in place in the regions where it operates, since it is the world's largest donor of humanitarian and development aid. the horn of africa is one of the most food insecure regions in the world. millions of people in the region are undernourished and are threatened by famine. health conditions in this region are also among the worst in the world. hunger and poverty are also linked to poor governance and to continuing armed conflict. the european union's strategy for the horn of africa has facilitated action to address the acute humanitarian crisis in the region. the humanitarian situation in the region also requires the presence of an eu special envoy. the work of ambassador alexander rondos is therefore important for the coordination of eu assistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the situation in the horn of africa is very complex and i welcome a strategy for the eu to clarify the common line. as the winner of the nobel peace prize 2012, the eu should have a strategy for the more troubling problems in the world. i want to call for a discreet approach, trying to find solutions rather than making accusations. making situations such as that in the horn of africa the subject of discussion and putting more international focus onto the problem is now in a way the responsibility of the eu.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, although the terminology for eurobonds, stability-building loans or whatever you want to call them has clearly tightened, i still do not see the financial basis for supporting this project. the present proposal only talks about the inclusion of economically stable countries in the system, but during the euro crisis the requirements, promises and forecasts have been constantly eroded. i'm sure it will be this time. the federalist tactic has consistently been to start new forms of solidarity in a soft way, but despite a light start, the ultimate goal of solidarity bonds is still morally unsustainable. it is not enough to assert in theory that we are opposed to moral decay, if in practice we are nevertheless encouraged to do so by solidarity. the moral failure of this system of stabilization loans cannot be removed without a close political and economic union: that is, the supremacy of brussels over the member states. the utility is also questionable. the crisis countries are excluded from this arrangement. in turn, this is of no benefit to countries with a good credit rating, since they are already getting a loan at a low rate. so who benefits from this? economically, not for anyone, and politically, only for those whose ideology strengthens the federation. the report also stresses the importance of democratic legitimacy. if we really want this, we should hold a referendum on the eurobonds, because what we are really talking about is the creation of a federation. but the will of the people is not what democratic legitimacy is usually meant here, because then we would have to be prepared for the federalists' will not to be carried out.
madam president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur for her persistence and devotion and for keeping her door open. in dealing with the financial crisis we are making decisions which are going to influence the future of the european union, and we should not lose this perspective. in a fairly interesting pamphlet written by jean-claude piris, former legal counsel for the european council, there is an interesting analysis of how the european institutions squabble with each other. in doing so, we lose momentum and are at the same time letting petty politics take the upper hand. we should not allow merely national points of view to dominate our decisions. our responsibility is not only to think about what is best for our member states, as opposed to other member states, nor is it to think about what is best for the european parliament as opposed to other institutions. a narrow approach leads easily to a zero-sum political game. our responsibility is to think about what is best for europe in the long run. with that in mind, i want to give my support to the rapporteur while underlining the long-term nature of the current suggestion.
mr president, too often here in europe we have a debate and a shadow play between two imaginary opposites. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in reality, walking on two legs is much easier than walking on one, taking one or the other route. we need both. we need to stabilize public finances. we also need to control this acute debt in some member states. but we need long-term measures to stabilise the financial cost of public finances. when properly implemented, eurobonds are a tool that benefits all member states and, above all, the european citizens. it controls the fluctuations in all borrowing costs and it also controls and lowers the interest rate on borrowing costs because it is a more stable and attractive investment overall. of course, not without strict and automatic control of public budgetary imbalances. but i cannot think of a better way in which we could actually bring together the economic interests of the various member states and their economies and, in addition to the means of coercion, also attract them to the stability and growth pact. on this basis, i see the proposals of both the commission and parliament as quite sensible and pragmatic proposals to move in this direction, and i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the very good work he has done, as well as the shadow rapporteurs from the various groups who have coordinated these positions.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, a word of thanks to the rapporteur. it's pretty easy to agree with his consistent line. but sometimes it can also be worthwhile to take a brief look back. we do this to understand when the problems really started. the good old days in europe ended around 1973, but by long-standing habit almost all states lived on debt in the hope that the good old days would return. after the good years came what can be described as a limited trade war, where small temporary gains were made by devaluing against each other. that period ended with emu and the changeover to the euro. now the same limited trade war is being waged with fiscal policy funds. that competition is damaging to us all and undermines the 'de facto solidarity', to use the words of robert schuman, between the citizens of europe and the countries of europe that we really need. a special case in today's europe is greece. it's hard to measure the exact unemployment rate in an economy that's still declining, but the numbers we see are staggering, with youth unemployment at 56 percent. we owe our european brothers and sisters a little more than we are willing to give them now. thank you, sir.
mr president, the irish presidency has created an exciting new concept: 'blue growth'. i'm sure this is about the possibilities of the sea. i would hope, however, for 'red growth', which means that now that this crisis of debt, growth and unemployment is certainly giving rise to a growing poverty crisis, and this in turn is giving rise to more far-right movements, tackling this poverty would be a very serious policy priority. in this respect, "red growth" is needed. as many have said here, one of the instruments is the youth guarantee, but if the member states cut and the european budget is cut at the same time, for example in youth programmes, the concept of the youth guarantee may become a mere word. i trust ireland and i trust your experience that you will do something about these matters.
in writing. - mr president, i welcome this timely report. the financial and economic crisis in europe has been prolonged by the activities of private credit rating agencies. thus, on the threshold of the new year, it is necessary to make promises that are kept. it is time to discipline the credit rating agencies in europe. i particularly welcome the rapid action taken by the commission and the heads of state at the eu summit last december to agree on a number of changes to deal with the economic crisis. the same determination and unity is needed in europe in the future. the european economic crisis is not over. i see this package of regulations as an important step in the wider process of reforming the functioning of the financial markets. on the other hand, the fact that this is the third time in just over two years that the matter has been raised shows how complex it is. this is an important step in liberating member states from the yoke of the credit rating agencies. rules will be established for credit rating agencies and they will be obliged to use clear criteria in their ratings. for the first time, europe has a roadmap for what a european public credit rating agency could look like.
in writing. - two thirds of europe's seas are overfished, which has led to a drastic decline in total catches over the past decade. other countries have shown that the right policy decisions produce results for sustainable fishing. by following the advice of scientists on setting fishing quotas, you do not fish faster than the fish stocks have time to reproduce. this means stronger fish stocks, which will allow fishing quotas to be increased in the long term. before we get there, we need to break the downward spiral and stop overfishing. this is done by following scientific advice from both ices and stecf. in the cod area, it is therefore gratifying that we have now taken the latest scientific advice from ices. it is an important signal to the fisheries ministers that quotas are not being set at a level which makes it impossible for fish stocks to reproduce in time. not only is cod a delicacy, but it also plays a unique role in the baltic sea ecosystem. cod is the largest predatory fish in the baltic sea and is at the top of the food chain. by having a strong cod stock, it means in the long run a healthier sea. it is no secret that the sea is in a bad state and that we must continue to show political will to reduce over-fertilisation.
mr president, the youth guarantee is a promise to young people to provide them with a job or a place of training after they have become unemployed, or a job after they have graduated. this promise is now made. it must be recovered by the member states. we finns have just met the finnish minister for europe, and i was a little disappointed that the youth guarantee was not among the 10 biggest megatrends or among the things that are important and big. i hope that in finland and in the other member states this guarantee for young people will be taken seriously and that this promise will be kept, that instead of reducing the number of training places, it will be increased, and that the promise of employment or training for young people will be kept. the promise has been made and it is now time to deliver on the promises, and that is the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. - mr president, the financial and economic crisis in europe has led to youth unemployment rising to 22.8%. this means that 5.5 million young europeans are unemployed. the introduction of the youth guarantee at member state level is a key element in remedying this situation. our young people are one of the biggest victims of the european economic crisis. as early as 2002, eu leaders agreed on a measure such as the youth guarantee. why has it taken ten years to accomplish something so important? in finland, the youth guarantee came into force at the beginning of this year. i guess you could say the eleventh hour. all young eu citizens must have the right to a place in employment or education. delays in entering the workforce also delay the start of a family and the acquisition of a home. this has a direct national economic impact. the irish presidency of the eu comes at a time when europe is in the throes of an economic crisis. i hope that the member states will take concrete measures to eradicate youth unemployment. stability and growth in europe cannot be achieved without active and targeted recovery measures. the time for belt-tightening is over, and it is time to turn the page on the european economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, i have just voted in favour of this timely and important report. i am glad that the report also takes account of the position of consumers, since energy is one of the basic commodities. we have read that, as a result of the economic crisis, consumers in several member states have been affected by lower incomes and higher heating costs. naturally, the situation is aggravated by the onset of winter. as the report states, the expected increase in energy prices could make this situation even worse. the risk group includes eu citizens living in less developed regions, whose income levels are usually lower than in other areas. this is why one of the main tasks of eu energy policy should be to ensure affordable energy for all citizens and in all regions.
i share the basic idea behind this report, mr president, that we must create and strengthen common mechanisms to stabilise the european economy. but that's where the consensus ends. the basic idea of the whole report is to bring solidarity debt arrangements, whether they are called 'stability bonds', 'euro bonds' or whatever, into the solution to the crisis. in a genuinely federalist federation, the idea would work, but in the european union and the euro area, these arrangements can still for a long time contribute to the forces of disintegration rather than deepening integration. in the current political climate, europe is not strong enough to cope with the growing populist moves, and with them, of course, the declining understanding among citizens of the enormous importance of keeping europe together. since jointly issued bonds are not necessary at this stage of the crisis and since i am very concerned about the unity of europe, i voted against this report. i believe that stability must be created before eurobonds.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the greens welcome the normalisation of relations and the possibility of enhanced dialogue with iraq. iraq today is a country where the oil productivity has been restored to almost full capacity, while the parliamentary democracy still needs strengthening. the greens welcome the government’s commitment to doing this, but at the same time we deplore the worsening of the human rights situation. the number of executions is increasing and there is unresolved sectarian violence. many still live with a deep sense of fear and uncertainty, especially the minorities. we want to stress the importance of adequate laws to protect women and girls and underline the importance of women’s participation in post-conflict reconstruction. the normalisation of trade relations is, of course, a positive thing, as is the process of iraq’s accession to the world trade organisation, a process to which the pca would be an important stepping stone. the greens have been critical of the trade chapter of the agreement: it is too much slanted towards eu business interests, leaving too little space for the iraqi government’s own decisions. we underline that the iraqi authorities should use their oil revenues as a contribution to sustainable social and economic reconstruction. this should also be the eu’s policy towards the iraq of today. in this respect, the government should introduce a binding corporate social responsibility clause. we think that we cannot open a new chapter with iraq on solid grounds without at least a minimum acknowledgement of what has happened in the past. it is important at this juncture to bear in mind the recent amendments to the statute of the international criminal court, drawn up in 2010, which provide a proper definition of the crime of aggression. as both the eu member states and iraq are either parties of the icc or are urged to become parties, it is very important that both sides ratify the new amendments to the icc statutes as soon as possible. this will strengthen the spirit of the eu-iraq pca, as both sides are about to turn a new page in each other’s history.
mr president, mr minister, the report on the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement highlights many opportunities for cooperation, but also the major challenges that iraq still has to overcome. it is particularly important to monitor the country's progress in human rights and good governance. the promotion of democracy, human rights and stability is more important for the future of the country than just promoting trade and investment. otherwise, as is often the case in resource-rich countries, the increase in trade benefits only the elite, and wealth is concentrated in the hands of a few. the suffering of the common people continues. the widespread corruption in iraq is further contributing to this bad development. while i appreciate the encouraging nature of the agreement for iraq to move towards a better future, i am critical of the way the current government, led by malik, is running the country. human rights are trampled, the death penalty is used, the position of children and women is weak, and religious and ethnic conflicts tear the country apart. persecution of christians is continuing, and thousands are fleeing the country. it must also be understood that external powers such as iran and the main arab countries, the assad regime in syria and saudi arabia, have considerable influence on iraqi politics. the growing influence of iran in iraq should be of particular concern, as it seeks to foment sunni-shia antagonism and has put pressure on iraq in its treatment of iranian opposition figures trapped in inhumane conditions at camp ashraf and liberty. as mr kelam has said, i think that paragraph 17 of the resolution is clearly wrong in this respect, which refers to the commitment of the iraqi authorities to provide the conditions for the people concerned in the camps, when the situation is quite the opposite. a democratic, human rights-respecting and stable iraq is still a distant dream. we must therefore realistically consider whether the time was ripe for this agreement and whether this is the best way to support iraq's democratic aspirations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the greens regret the postponement of the conference scheduled for 2012. the conference has been under way since 1995 when it was part of a deal to make the nuclear non-proliferation treaty permanent. if the conference does not take place, this will seriously undermine the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and all other efforts towards non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. proliferation of weapons leads to proliferation of conflict. this is evident in the case of iran and israel. we know there is a continuous presence of the possibility of war between these two countries. we have to invest our utmost efforts into eradicating this possibility of war and urge all sides to have a dialogue and to rethink their enemy images. the process of establishing a wmd-free zone would be a confidence-building measure towards such a dialogue. the link between proliferation and conflict is also evident in syria. we are aware of the vast arsenal of chemical weapons in this country which is torn about by a civil war. there is a constant risk that the weapons might be used, may even have already been used. we urge the un secretary-general, the un facilitator, the sponsors, the eu high representative and the eu member states to make sure that the 2012 conference takes place as soon as possible in the early months of 2013. according to the facilitator, during the preparations for this conference a unique awareness of the problems has been created in the middle east in civil society, among politicians and decision-makers, and this momentum should not be lost. the fact that not all countries have been willing to participate should not be allowed to stop the process. no effort should be spared to reach a consensus on the common goals in the process. security guarantees have to be put in place at the same time as the verified disarmament process proceeds. the alternative is further proliferation, especially of nuclear weapons, in the middle east in the very near future.
mr president, mr minister, the conference scheduled to take place in helsinki was cancelled for a very fundamental reason. the situation in the middle east was once again so tense, with the war in syria, unrest in egypt and hamas rocket attacks from gaza, that the conditions were not right for a summit. this is regrettable, of course, but it is also the heart of the problem. the long-term objective must be a middle east free of military conflict, not just a middle east free of weapons of mass destruction, because only through peace and trust can we get rid of all weapons of mass destruction. this is not only the case with nuclear material but also with biological and chemical weapons. during the syrian crisis, concern has also been raised in the west about the fate of the country's chemical weapons and their eventual use by either a party to the conflict or al-qaeda. similarly, iran's nuclear weapons programme under its current leadership is a threat to the peace of the whole world, not just the middle east region. i find it incomprehensible that the international community should largely stand by as the iranian regime has been allowed to develop its military nuclear weapons programme in peace and not to heed the statements of the iaea, among others. the current leadership of the country is allowed to publicly threaten to destroy israel, another un member state, and to support the hezbollah terrorist group operating in lebanon and syria, and to provide hamas with weapons, among other things, which it used to attack israeli civilians. the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east therefore requires peace and trust. this means that, in addition to the ongoing conflicts, the basic conflict between israel and the arab countries must be resolved. the arab countries, along with egypt and jordan, must recognize the state of israel and its right to exist, and the terrorist organizations must give up their terror. the same applies to the israeli and palestinian sides, who must be allowed to return to the negotiating table in order to reach a peace agreement. i see the eu in particular playing a role as a peace broker. the eu must continue to support all states in the region in their efforts to achieve lasting peace and prosperity for the people of the region.
mr president, a middle east free of nuclear weapons and conflict is something worth pursuing, even if it seems impossible at the moment. one conference will not bring peace to the region or eliminate weapons of mass destruction, but something is showing - and it is precisely the lack of will that shows - that this last conference, planned for helsinki, has been cancelled for several years. the countries of the region must be brought together at the same table, which is why it is important to organise a conference. the countries of the region have a responsibility, but the eu, the us and russia must be involved in this process. we in this house in particular, of course, want the eu to be more active in this area, and there are hopes for that too. the pursuit of peace is something that the eu should be doing much more actively at this time, and especially now that it has won the peace prize.
mr president, i voted in favour of this cooperation agreement. it is important that forms of cooperation are not limited to commercial interests. combating poverty, improving education and health, and reforming employment are cornerstones of social and human development. the european union, as a community of values, must commit itself to a broad support for iraq in its development of society and the well-being of its citizens. i am referring to the provision of technical and logistical support and information on democracy, the rule of law and good governance. in iraq, there is a need to remember the importance of honest dialogue with civil society. it would be disastrous for the development of a healthy and vibrant society if women were excluded from decision-making in the development of society.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. it is very good that relations with iraq have been normalized and that the eu has been able to provide them with aid. but there are two points i would like to make. i'm not so much in favor of establishing these branches. i'd have to look very carefully at where they're needed and where they're not. i also note the name-call votes, amendment no 20, second part, where i voted wrong by mistake. the court of justice has already ruled that the war in iraq is an act of aggression, and i would like to vote in favour of the motion tabled by the greens.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. the figures for bangladesh and pakistan are shocking, but so is the slow, even indifferent, progress made by those countries in improving the working conditions of textile workers. the european consumer needs to be properly informed about the conditions under which clothing shops selling in europe produce their products. i hope that the commission will take this matter very seriously and will start to monitor the working conditions of workers in the eu textile trade more closely. the european union already has human rights clauses in its existing trade agreements, which allow for effective action to end abuses.
mr president, i'm sorry, i'm going to use my notes. i voted for this resolution. this conference was to be held in finland last december. to repeal it permanently would be a very serious blow to international peace and security. the objective of promoting the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east deserves the support of all the eu countries. it is important that parliament and the european union speak with one voice on this issue. the primary objective is, of course, to prevent new states from acquiring nuclear weapons, but at the same time the reduction of stockpiles must continue. the goal, of course, must be a nuclear-free world. i would like to point out that i think the resolution also recognizes the finnish under-secretary of state, mr jaakko laajava, who has been the expert here.
i also voted in favour of this regulation. the fact that products do not give information on the countries of origin is, in my view, unfair competition. such products should not be allowed to enter the european union at all. free trade must always be based on fair competition and clear rules, which are also respected and monitored. simply put, european consumers want to uphold their right to know what they are buying, where the product comes from and how it was produced. i think that with this resolution the european parliament is sending a very strong message to the commission and council administrations about what the european consumers want.
the question of the blue card. you dismissed this event and said that if you condemn violence, you condemn culture. it's not like that. we condemn the way of thinking in india that it is the custom of the country that a man can beat the women of the family, wife and children. isn't that reprehensible? and what do you think, some gurus have blamed women for this. they say if a woman surrenders, the rape victim doesn't lose her life.
the resolution expresses our condolences to the family of a 23-year-old student who was gang-raped. the most recent known brutal bus rape occurred last weekend. sadly, harassment and violence against women are widespread and pervasive in india. sexual harassment is happening everywhere in public places, most commonly on public transport, according to a study in delhi. according to 2010 statistics, more than 22,000 women were raped, nine percent of the victims were under 14 years old and 16 percent were between 14 and 18 years old. most of these rapes don't even make it into the statistics. the legislation and its rigorous enforcement must hold criminals accountable and the eu and international community must demand action from the government. attitudes must also be influenced by education. it is only a profound path to these changes in indian society.
mr. speaker, an old indian proverb says that when you wake up a woman, the house, the village, the whole world moves. it's a wake-up call in india. massive protests are underway for women's rights, and india's prime minister singh has promised reforms and harsher punishments for rapists. i think that we in the european parliament should also appeal to the indian parliamentarians to make violence a more serious crime there. india has made progress in reducing poverty over the past decade, but it is the position of women in india that needs special attention. i believe that the european union and the member states must, through their embassies, start a dialogue with indian politicians, as my own country, finland, has already done. when the european union transfers funds to india, to the indian education system, police training could be one project.
mr president, i am of the opinion that rape can be a result of tradition. this rape case cannot be separated from the fact that female fetuses are aborted in the country and violence against women is significant without the intervention of the authorities. it is a question of human dignity, and in particular of the dignity of women. i was in development myself in the 1990s, and i went to india, and i met my grandmother in a homeless shelter. he had four girls in his care. these girls had been driven from their families when the long-awaited fifth child, a son, was born. the girls were thrown out on the street. the eldest of them, a 14-year-old girl, said: "we are here because we are girls". so we have to help india see this underlying cause and at the same time, of course, examine our own values. there are no human rights without human dignity.
the author. - mr president, the human rights situation in bahrain has unfortunately remained unchanged. parliament visited bahrain last december. it visited prisons and met with political prisoners. the human rights situation in bahrain is serious, but it is also important to understand the underlying geopolitical game. the european parliament is sending a message of goodwill to bahrain, but at the same time it is demanding that the promised reforms be implemented. the state of bahrain should seek genuine and honest dialogue with civil society. bahrainis are in the streets demanding the right to be heard and the right to a more democratic society. the european external action service, together with all eu member states, should do everything possible to secure the release of political prisoners in bahraini prisons.
mr president, whereas we perhaps do not have all details about the graveness of human rights violations in bahrain, it is clear that we have to express our gravest concern over the developments in that country. international focus should now be on supporting the positive elements in this matter. it is positive that king hamad and his government endorsed the work of the bahraini independent commission of inquiry. now we have to see that this endorsement is followed by real change on the ground. of greatest importance here for me are the violations against children. simply put, they are repugnant, and the bahraini authorities must make sure they end. there is one thing common to all state repression, regardless of where it takes place or how mighty the government or authority behind it is. at the end of the day, it is always doomed to fail. there is no way in today’s world to keep people unaware of what is going on in their country. repression, including in the form of breaches of human rights, will end sooner or later.
the author. - mr president, central africa has been unstable for a long time, but recently a ceasefire has been achieved, and that is a good thing. but there is reason to be very concerned about the human rights situation, as has been shown here many times. unfortunately, once again, women and young girls are the most affected by violence, especially sexual violence. violence against civilians, robberies and other acts of violence have been reported to be directed specifically at ethnic and religious minorities. the use of child soldiers is on the rise. it is therefore good that we are discussing this issue and we are urging the high representative, lady ashton, to take advantage of the relationship between the european union and the central african republic now and to actively promote a strategy of peace building.
mr president, the central african republic is a good example of how wealthy natural resources do not necessarily bring prosperity to society, but democracy, human rights and good governance. otherwise, it's like central africa. corruption, power-sharing and violence are rampant, and ordinary people suffer. one alarming detail that has come to light again in the country's turmoil is the use of child soldiers. according to unicef, several thousand children between the ages of 3 and 18 were forced to join the battlefield and girls were sexually abused. the peace treaty has now been signed, but it will take a huge effort to preserve it. the international community and the eu must do what they can to build a fragile society and improve people's living conditions.
mr president, the central african republic is a country in constant armed conflict. there are several armed groups vying for power. there can be no peaceful solution to this crisis without dialogue, and that is where the european union should be supporting. i am particularly concerned about the suffering of the civilian population and these reports of the increasing use of child soldiers are alarming. this is clearly an international crime. it is important for the victims and their families that human rights violations be properly investigated and that the perpetrators be punished. this is also a prerequisite for achieving national reconciliation. the message of parliament is clear with this resolution. the eu must work to put an end to human rights violations, unlawful killings, kidnappings, torture and sexual violence against the civilian population.
mr president, the central african republic has suffered decades of instability and political unrest. although rich in valuable natural resources, such as timber, gold, diamonds, and uranium, it has remained one of the poorest countries in the world. last week, president bozizé and the rebel coalition reached an understanding and signed agreements of major importance to the pursuit of peace, including a ceasefire. but it's a delicate situation. and we want to do our best to support a peaceful solution to this protracted crisis. the difficult humanitarian situation continues to affect tens of thousands of central africans. regional organisations smaller than the african union have played an important role in mediating the crisis. the eu is the most important donor in central africa and there is now a need to actively promote a comprehensive peacebuilding strategy. the commission should also provide assistance and technical support in the preparations for the forthcoming elections.
mr president, the outermost regions do indeed have a special status and it is entirely justified that they should also be supported by a special measure. self-sufficiency and security of supply are particularly important in the outermost regions and the european union must do everything possible to ensure them. we must also be able to safeguard agricultural production throughout europe, and therefore the measures proposed in the reports we have just heard are justified. the long distances, the sparsity of population, the difficult terrain, the difficult weather conditions and the high production costs pose particular challenges to these outermost regions and in particular to their agricultural production. agricultural production as a livelihood of these outermost regions is crucial to the viability and settlement of these regions and the countryside, as the countryside of these outermost regions in particular is suffering from an ageing population, under-population and in some areas even depopulation. i therefore hope and urge the commission to continue to take account of these remote regions, also in the budgetary field, when we talk about agricultural matters.
mr president, violence against women is a crime. it is against human rights, because women’s rights are human rights. it is against all the core european values, and it is against the free movement of people. there are many kinds of violence: physical violence, social violence, sociological violence and psychological violence. there is also structural violence that actually prevents people from being free. as we know, women make up more or less half of the population. if the european union and the member states do not take active and severe action to combat violence against women, nothing can be said to be being done on human rights and european values. this is why i urge the member states, the commission, parliament and all of us to work together to find a legal basis in the european union, to draft legislation to combat violence against women in all its forms, to start an active global programme in all sectors of international cooperation in order to put halting violence against women right at the forefront of the eu’s activities. the time is ripe for action. women and men, future generations, the girls and boys to come, deserve it.
mr president, commissioner, the financial crisis has led to increased attention and regulation of the rules on the solvency and liquidity of banks. this is of course mainly necessary and justified to prevent future crises, but in this situation the banks have prepared themselves for future regulation by limiting credit, i.e. by improving solvency to the level of tightening requirements by reducing credit and also by tightening the terms of loans. this is particularly the case for small and mediumsized enterprises across europe. the fact is that despite all the fine financial instruments and venture capital funds and business angels, traditional banks and bank loans are still the most important source of finance for european small businesses. smes are thus threatened by a credit crunch on the one hand and a lack of own funds due to a contraction in demand on the other. smes are the backbone of the european economy, as has been said by many colleagues here and is often mentioned in the speeches. smes in particular are the keepers of employment, taxation and, therefore, welfare societies. the rapporteur raises very important points to improve the present situation. firstly, there is a general impact assessment of all new regulation, particularly in the financial sector and smes, and secondly, information on the various financial instruments and programmes provided by the eu. the report also describes the psci, cosme and horizon 2020 initiatives and the creative europe framework programme. the average sme in most eu countries has probably never heard of these programmes, and we must make these good programmes known to entrepreneurs.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the fisheries policy is one of europe's greatest failures. today we are about to change that. two thirds of europe's fish stocks have been severely overfished. overfishing is not only an ecological disaster, it is also an economic and social disaster. this means less catches and less economy in our coastal communities. we can break this spiral in tomorrow's vote. i should like to take this opportunity to thank mrs ulrike rodust for her excellent and hard work on the report. thank you, mrs. rodust, that was extraordinarily well done. one of the main points of the vote is to achieve maximum sustainable yield. that means fish on the table, too. another key point is to get a ban on drafting. every year, 1.7 million tons of dead or dying fish are thrown overboard, an immoral waste. so let us change europe's fisheries policy today and tomorrow.
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of this timely and important report. i am very pleased that the report seeks to find ways of preventing bankruptcies. entrepreneurs who have gone bankrupt are usually viewed very negatively. it is important to remember, however, that not all bankruptcies are speculative. some honest entrepreneurs also go bankrupt unwillingly. one reason for this may simply be that the company's customers do not pay their bills on time. these late payments are not a small problem! when finnish entrepreneurs were interviewed in 2011 for the european payment survey, 27% of them considered late payments to be a threat to the survival of their business. at european level, the same study found that if the public sector, businesses and consumers paid their bills by the due date, it would provide a €312 billion boost to the european economy. in the present economic climate, we cannot afford to lose such a stimulus!
in writing. - supporting smes and improving their access to finance is an activity we must invest in now. in the business sector, smes in particular have suffered greatly from the financial crisis and its consequences on the financial markets. the banking supervision will make it even more difficult for smes to obtain credit. starting a small business can be easy, but keeping it running is everything else. however, smes are the backbone of the european economy. it is therefore gratifying that the rapporteur, mr de backer, has done such careful work on this report from parliament. we must now give our full support to the objectives we wish to set for improving the situation of these entrepreneurs. it is of the utmost importance to raise awareness among smes quickly about the different forms of financing and their availability. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − smes are very important to the eu. they are the backbone of europe's economy and its future, and an important engine of economic growth. smes contribute to job creation in every eu country. i am glad that parliament voted in favour of the de backer report by virtually complete unanimity. the issues of sme financing are important and should be discussed in each member state if they are not already on the agenda. de backer has made some good points in his report: we need more incentive mechanisms, for example in relation to taxation, and we need to emphasise the role of alternative financial systems. only with this type of ideas and initiatives can we develop a european business environment where businesses can truly thrive and grow.
in its opinion, the committee on employment and social affairs stressed the worrying trend in employment, with more than 10% of the working age population unemployed, and we wanted to highlight youth unemployment in particular. with more than one in five young people unemployed, in some member states even more than 50%, there is a real risk of losing an entire generation to social exclusion. the youth guarantee has been presented as a help, but it must be remembered that its implementation requires a functioning education system and flexible labour markets in the member states. we should not be getting our hopes up, because the responsibility for this, for implementing it, lies with the member states. the annual growth survey also reveals the widening gap between the employment and social indicators of the member states. member states with strong social security systems, stable public finances and flexible labour markets have best coped with the consequences of the crisis. this model could also be called the nordic model, which was mentioned by the economist this week, for example. that is why i think that the contrast between stability and recovery which has been drawn up in this debate is completely unnecessary. we absolutely need both. structural reforms are needed in all member states, including those with relatively better economic performance. we will have to face, in the coming decades, the challenge of ageing, among other things. it must be understood that a country over-indebted can never provide the basis for growth and prosperity. this crisis has revealed the need to understand the different structures of the economies of the member states. the same medication really doesn't work for everyone.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today one of the largest newspapers in finland, ilta-sanomat, reported that half a million finns suffer from traffic noise above 55 decibels and that this figure is increasing by two per cent a year. in europe as a whole, more than 40% of people, or almost one in two, suffer from harmful traffic, and it is estimated to cause 50,000 premature deaths and a quarter of a million heart attacks a year. in addition to the heart, noise may even affect mental health. lack of sleep is linked to a long list of diseases, even diabetes. the cheapest way to reduce noise pollution is to reduce the noise from the source, the cars. this is also what european cities are asking for, as they do not want to pay the double price for other means, such as noise. the commission's proposal is not very ambitious. one in four cars and one in three trucks already meet the proposed limits. the compromise agreed by the envi committee would moderate the commission's proposal somewhat. the greens can accept it, however, in order to avoid the drastic weakening of the commission proposal proposed by the right-wing groups. the benefits of reducing car noise outweigh the costs by as much as a factor of ten. i would urge my colleagues to support the compromise of the committee on the environment, proposal 51. i also ask for support for the additional 2 decibel step to be taken in 10 years' time, proposition 67. i am surprised that the ppe group has been allowed to put its name to three different proposals on noise limits for cars. i don't think any other group would be allowed to do this. in particular, i would remind the right-wing parties who are calling for public sector spending to be brought under control that reducing the number of diseases caused by car-driving will help to alleviate public health costs. moreover, if the harmful effects of noise are reduced by other means, such as noise, the taxpayer is forced to pay a price that is many times higher. car companies are lobbying for looser noise limits, and right-wing negotiators have joined them. corporate executives and lobbyists can afford to buy their homes in expensive areas that are not disturbed by the noise of cars. the poor people's household income is being disturbed by the car noise.
mr president, commission president barroso began by saying that the european union is the world's largest trading bloc, and that is true. he also stressed the need for new rules of the game in world trade and for the abolition of distortive structures. one distortion occurred quite quietly, when a south korean company sued both a french and a finnish shipyard company, demanded as much state subsidies as possible and ended up in france. i congratulate the french on this, although it may prove to be a heavy burden for the french taxpayers in the future. the commission is now examining whether the member states of the european union have done anything in this respect that is contrary to eu rules. i would hope that the representative of the president of the commission would comment on this matter and explain how it is possible that the south koreans are, as it were, milking two eu countries.
i voted in favour of this report. it is very important that medicines should be affordable for the citizens of the european union. it is also important to remember that the work of those who do research in the pharmaceutical industry must be taken into account, rather than having very short periods of protection and then some people can copy the drugs. the most important thing is to ensure that medical research and drug development also make strong progress and that they are financed. many countries have their own systems for doing this through various research programs, and even more expensive drugs are reimbursed to citizens through the health insurance system. it is very good that we have access to quality medicines at low prices, but it is also important to ensure that medicines can be developed continuously and thus invest in the pharmaceutical industry and its innovation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. today we made history. we have taken the first steps or, indeed, the first steps towards a sustainable fisheries policy. in the long term, this policy means better ecosystems and more fish in the sea, more catches and better economies for fishermen. it also means that fish will continue to be on the menu of european consumers. but today's vote does not mean that everything is now done and done. the negotiations with the council and the european fisheries ministers are now awaited. so now it is the responsibility of the national governments to ensure that we in the european parliament and the council together reach the same level as we did in today's vote. that is why we, both members of parliament and citizens, must continue to engage in active dialogue with our governments and fisheries ministers after today's vote, so that together we can bring the reform and the fishermen to justice. it's a win-win situation for everyone. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs ulrike rodust on the reform of the fisheries policy. i believe that the development of the eu's fisheries policy is important and, in some respects, even very necessary. the prevention of overfishing by the most reasonable means of limiting fishing is a prerequisite for the conservation of fish stocks. at the same time, it is a means of ensuring that fisheries and related industries will continue to exist in the future. i support the rapporteur's line on reform for a number of reasons. i am thinking of the state of the environment, biodiversity, the rational and sustainable nature of economic activity. i have assessed the reform of the fisheries policy from both ecological and economic perspectives.
in writing. − parliament has voted today on the sound levels of motor vehicles. i heard some say that the report had been watered down by automobile companies and this is something that worries me. nevertheless, i think it is important that health standards like these are being bought up for discussion and the direction is forward. when this legislation comes next under discussion, i would call for an objective study to be done on the topic to clear up any misunderstandings, as we are trying to work for the citizens of the member states.
in writing. - in times of crisis, the deterioration of the socioeconomic situation of people is further fuelling migration towards europe. on the other hand, the migration movement has been weakened by the crisis in europe. at least according to eurostat statistics, the number of asylum seekers has decreased in recent years. this does not mean that we should stop supporting eu countries with high levels of asylum seekers. this is a challenge for the whole of europe, and we must find common solutions and solidarity. we have now voted on an important financial instrument to support member states in need of assistance in their work on immigration, the protection of external borders and asylum seekers. i am pleased with the work of mr torvalds on this important matter.
in writing. − by agreeing to increase the co-financing rates for the external borders fund, the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for integration of third-country nationals, an important step has been taken to create a mechanism for solidarity among member states in the management of migration flows. properly functioning management of migration flows is of pivotal importance to the european union as a whole. the effects of the economic and financial crisis have hit some member states harder than others, even to the extent that they have experienced problems in fulfilling the co-financing requirements for eu funding. it is important that member states facing significant economic challenges should still be able to deal with tasks related to the management of migration flows. the inability of one member state to ensure efficient management of migration flows affects other member states as well, which is why it is important that commitments made by one member state with regard to migration are not adversely affected by economic difficulties in another member state. given the current economic challenges, therefore, reassessment of the co-financing requirements is justified, and i am glad to see that a decision to that effect has been taken.
mr president, the end and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls is at the heart of this issue. when we discuss this in the european parliament, we must not forget the situation in our own neighbourhood. according to eu statistics, one in five women in the european union has experienced physical violence and one in ten has been the victim of sexual violence during her lifetime. the council of europe estimates that up to 45%, or almost half of all women, will suffer some form of violence at least once in their lives. the most common perpetrator of violence is found next to it, the woman's closest partner is most often the one causing the suffering. so there is certainly work to be done here in europe, even if the situation is better than in some other parts of the world. shockingly, up to half of all sexual violence worldwide is perpetrated against girls under the age of 16. in the light of these figures, mankind is still a long way from civilization. the eu must therefore speak out and do everything it can to change this shocking situation, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, we have been trying for years to find ways of promoting equality between men and women in the world, but unfortunately inequality persists. the continuation of violence against women and girls in particular has very serious social consequences. the prevention and elimination of such violence requires the participation of the whole of society. violence against the person is a serious violation of human rights. it leaves deep scars on a person's personality. the european union is a powerful and important global actor. it is therefore important that the union seriously endeavours to combat all forms of violence against women and children wherever it occurs.
mr president, the agenda is to establish and promote peace between the kurds and turkey. the previous speaker pointed out that improving the linguistic status of the kurds is one such objective. we in the eu certainly expect that high representative ashton and the eu as a whole will be more active in promoting peace in this region and elsewhere. the eu's high representative, ms ashton, said that the nobel peace prize was awarded for her work in mediation. i dare to disagree a little, because the eu has been too passive in its mediation and peace mediation work. the eu could be much more active in promoting the cause of turkey, and i think that has nothing to do with membership, but respect for peace and human rights in turkey is important, whether it is a member of the eu or not.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard the increasingly serious warnings from scientists and experts, including nicholas stern. even the international energy agency, which has traditionally been the voice of fossil energy, warns that two thirds of known fossil resources should be left in the ground. at the same time, as the warnings of experts are becoming more and more serious, europe is essentially standing still. it's really time we got our shit together. we must set an example for the world by setting three targets for 2030: emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency. we need to fix our emissions trading so that it actually encourages investment in clean alternatives. the companies that want to invest in europe are appealing to us to fix the emissions trading system. if parliament does not support the correction of the emissions trading system, it will be interpreted by the world as a signal that we want to destroy the emissions trading system, which would of course have the worst international impact. all over the world, in australia, korea, california and china, they're implementing emissions trading, following our lead. it would be a shame if, at the same time, we were to let our own emissions trading system wither away into insignificance.
mr president, mr commissioner, the european union should be very careful about how it prepares for the next meeting of the parties to the unfccc. i have two questions for the commissioner. first, a very important issue in the global climate debate is lulucf, or reporting on land use, land use change and forestry. it would be very interesting to hear the commissioner's assessment of how lulucf will be included in the global climate agreement after 2020. the kyoto protocol, as we know, has included this, but there is still room for improvement. the second issue concerns agriculture and the reporting of land use change and land use caused by agriculture. what role does the commissioner think agriculture should play in the global climate agreement?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, mr hoyer, i would like to welcome you to the european parliament and convey to you the greetings of your friends in finland. i also want to congratulate you on making the investment bank an effective crisis fighter. the eib's capital increase was one of the best news of 2012 and will play a major role, not only for the programme countries, but for the union as a whole. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr mauro, for a positive and constructive report. i would like to pick up on what my friend and bench neighbour, theodoros skylakakis, and ms podimata have already said about unemployment, and plead for more investments supporting the europe 2020 strategy on growth, jobs, investment, research, innovation, education and infrastructure, which are key to achieving growth and jobs. but this is unfortunately where the member states are making the most stringent cuts in the mmf negotiations, which start today. speaking about the next mff, when we call for more flexibility in the next financial period we should remember the eib. for example, the link between structural funds and eib lending has proved very useful and should be explored further, as should the use of loan reflows. this is perhaps a little unorthodox, but i would also argue for greater room for manoeuvre for the bank lending officers to find robust and credible projects in new areas of innovation. we need to think outside the box. finally, i would like to stress the issues of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in projects funded by the eib. there is a risk that the high volume of unemployment may undermine stability in the future.
mr president, we must not see ageing as a burden but as an opportunity for society. statistics show that in 50 years' time, one in three europeans will be over 65. at the same time, in almost all european countries, the birth rate is below the replacement rate. europe is facing an unprepared demographic time bomb, with changing demographics and low birth rates. other parts of the world, especially in asia, have already taken action. i put a written question to the commission on this and asked that the commission consider drawing up a green paper on a sustainable ageing policy and take action to increase fertility in europe. commissioner andor has no intention of pursuing the matter. i hope that this report will help the commission to reconsider its position. europe needs a comprehensive strategy and a green paper on sustainable ageing policy.
mr president, i voted in favour of requiring the commission to submit a legislative proposal on corporate social responsibility. i believe that the european union and we who make decisions in the european union must promote responsible and sustainable business, and produce and promote legislative proposals that enable consumers to make responsible consumer choices. this requires that the labels are well known. i think that this also includes the fact that companies do not evade taxes, but that the european union is also active in this area, so that tax havens are banned. it's part of our social responsibility to pay our taxes. the origin labelling of raw materials must also be clear, so that the citizen knows what he is buying and consuming, and i am awaiting a proposal from the commission on this.
mr president, the commission's definition of csr is a good one. the impact of csr policy needs to be further enhanced. eu member states should be encouraged to integrate csr into curricula, both at secondary school and university level. smes in particular should be encouraged to provide practical work experience for young people in the education and training phase. the work done should also be compensated, whether it is part-time or just for work experience. in many cases, smes today do not even know what social responsibility is. responsible entrepreneurship is the backbone of competitiveness and successful business. the european union must be a pioneer in promoting social rules. the principle of corporate social responsibility, good practice and transparency should be further developed in europe on the basis of the un and oecd guidelines.
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of this timely and important report. i am very pleased that this report is an attempt to create common rules for our common europe. it is estimated that we could increase the european economy, which is currently suffering from serious economic problems, by as much as 4% over the next 10 years by very simple measures: by following the rules agreed together. it is therefore paradoxical that we have once again had to discuss budget cuts and savings. if all member states were to follow the same rules for the sake of our common europe, the need for such a debate would be reduced.
the author. - mr president, parliament is rightly deeply concerned about the involuntary disappearance of sombath somphone from laos. in the light of the information available, the lao police are involved and have been slow to investigate. the lao authorities shall take all necessary measures to put an end to arbitrary arrests and secret detentions. enforced disappearances are the most fundamental violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. they also have a profound effect on the victim's family and on the entire community. the human rights violations committed by the authorities are of particular concern. they must not be allowed. they slow down the whole society and cause fear. the european external action service and the commission must raise the somphone case with the lao government. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we have to stop this kind of thing. the lao government has an obligation to safeguard and guarantee the exercise of freedom of expression by its citizens. citizens like somphone who are defending human rights should be supported, not suppressed, as they try to improve the laotian society.
mr president, human rights violations have increased worldwide in recent years. i think the eu external action service and the eu should think about what the eu member states could do together. there is not enough cooperation at the moment, and i think this would be a new opening for the eu's external relations administration, where there is a real need for increased cooperation, that is, to think about what could be done. when such abductions occur, it should be explored how the eu could be involved and help, because many small individual states can be in a rather difficult position. a country may not have an embassy in that country, so it is already very difficult to get in touch and to know the regions and the politicians of that country and especially the people behind the abductions. we need more cooperation on this.
the author. - mr president, intimidation of human rights defenders and political opponents of mr mugabe, arbitrary arrests, legal pursuits and mysterious disappearances have only increased in zimbabwe in recent times. the coalition government that has been in power since 2009 is in disarray as elections approach. democratic elections are the only way to maintain peace and balance in the country. zimbabwean society is not developed by intimidating, threatening and arresting human rights defenders. the cornerstones of democracy are respect for the freedoms of association, assembly and expression. these are also needed to draft a new constitution for zimbabwe. it is important for the preservation of democracy and peace in society that the whole of society is heard when drafting a constitution. the european union must continue its targeted measures if the arrests and intimidation continue. unfortunately, the eu has not included a strong human rights clause in the interim economic partnership agreement with zimbabwe. in future, a binding human rights clause must be included in all eu trade agreements.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the deaths of health workers in pakistan are shocking. the international campaign against polio must not be jeopardised in pakistan, where the disease is still endemic. the activities of extremist groups close to the taliban expose children to dangerous diseases and lifelong disability, thus depriving them of their right to health care. the safety of who, unicef and local aid and health workers, especially women, must be ensured. the country should engage in a broad dialogue with community leaders and citizens to strengthen confidence in vaccination campaigns and at the same time to improve the status of women as active members of society. it is a positive thing that pakistan and its civil society have condemned the attacks and taken action. those responsible for the brutal killings must be brought to justice.
mr president, considering that pakistan is one of the very last countries in the world in which polio is still endemic and, considering that pakistan herself has declared polio a national emergency, one cannot but wonder at the lacklustre effort pakistan has shown here, both in speeding up the vaccination campaign or in putting down the disgusting campaign by different taliban factions to kill medical aid workers who are risking their lives to help pakistani children. pakistan spends less than 0.3% of its federal budget on healthcare. this does not reflect a serious effort to eradicate polio in that country. when it comes to rooting out the taliban so that they cannot go on terrorising the people of pakistan, and still completely understanding the difficult situation that the pakistani government is in here, i really think that we should more strongly urge the state of pakistan to end this nightmare.
mr president, this debate shows how the european parliament and the eu as a whole are following with concern and unequivocally condemning the murder of health care workers in pakistan and the threats and attacks on the police who are protecting them. it is regrettable that as a result of these attacks, the who has had to suspend polio campaigns for security reasons, and the pakistani government has also had to suspend vaccination campaigns. this is a disaster for children and for the people of this country. i would also like the eu to do what it can in this respect. i know that this is a difficult matter and that it is primarily the responsibility of the pakistani government, but if the eu can help, aid workers must be protected.
the question of the blue card. mr president, i am sure that the same questions have been raised on women's day every year. i think a lot of people are already thinking, why don't we solve these things? perhaps one of the problems is that we don't have enough information about how things are at the moment. i would like to ask the rapporteurs that, in the context of the european union, there is an equality institute - which i think is rather quiet - and i have not heard much about this equality institute - have you been able to use the information of this equality institute in the preparation of these reports?
in writing. when planning our energy plans for 2050, the most important thing is to have a clear vision of what we are aiming for; instead, the means and intermediate objectives must be kept open and guided. the report by parliament on the energy roadmap is therefore a good and balanced one: it would be shortsighted to lock in the objectives and means in a changing world. we operate in a global world, interacting with others, and that's why global problems cannot be solved locally and alone. it would also be a mistake to set binding targets for renewable energy and emission reductions now, even as an interim target for 2030, as the world energy market is undergoing major changes and the increase in climate change research may force changes. lng has already revolutionised the american energy market and, at the same time, the global market: change is possible in europe too, if lng reserves are used in an environmentally sustainable way. similarly, as climate science evolves, the focus is shifting from carbon dioxide control to faster and more effective measures to combat climate change, such as eliminating black carbon. the leaked next ipcc assessment report gives indications that the role of co2 is declining; politicians should be aware of this. there has been an unhealthy trend in the eu recently towards short-sighted populist energy solutions, as exemplified by germany with its plans to phase out nuclear power and support renewable energy. the price tag of these decisions is proving impossible to sustain as a result of the carbon victory. the large support policy for renewable energy with feed-in tariffs is detrimental to renewable energy itself: these forms of energy never mature into efficient ones when they do not have to seek their profitability from the market, but remain, as it were, at the breastfeeding price of feed-in tariffs.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the rapporteurs for their very good and dedicated work. worldwide, forestry and land-use change are estimated to account for about one fifth of all greenhouse gas emissions, somewhat more than all the world's transport combined. many estimates also put forestry and land use measures among the least costly ways of protecting the climate, but at the same time, many traditional policies are being called into question and are therefore hotly debated in many countries, not least in my own. but if we neglect to do something about forests and soils, or if we under-report emissions, we raise the overall cost of climate protection. for example, we should not cut turf for fields. in finland, we should not cut down forests that have been planted for the purpose of clearing. in the case of logging, the stumps should not be pulled out of the ground for burning, since all these activities transfer carbon from the ground to the air.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, i have had the pleasure and honour of working as a shadow rapporteur with the rapporteur and subsequently with the commission and council representatives. ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that we are nervous about the future, because according to the european consumer centre, the number of complaints about online fraud has only increased in recent years. if we cannot tackle online fraud and increase consumer confidence in online commerce, we will certainly not be able to achieve the growth targets we have set for the digital single market. i myself have raised concerns on many occasions during the process, particularly about the cost of the dispute settlement procedure, the protection of privacy and the position of the most vulnerable consumers. furthermore, as a member of a small language group myself, i have been concerned about the possibility for consumers to use the odr platform in their mother tongue if necessary. that is why i am very pleased that the proposal for an odr platform would be free of charge for consumers, that it would be available in all the official languages of the eu and that it would also take into account issues relating to accessibility, data protection and consumer privacy. i hope we don't have to use this wonderful system, but, of course, that we can move forward without any arguments.
i have just voted in favour of this timely and important report, on which i am also the shadow rapporteur for my group. the proposed odr platform is really on the edge of its time, as the european consumer centre has reported a significant increase in online fraud cases in recent years. if we cannot tackle online fraud and increase consumer confidence in online commerce, we will never be able to achieve the growth targets we have set for the digital single market. the aim is to make the free odr platform available to all eu citizens in all eu official languages. this is why i consider the reform to be important, as it will increase the equality of european consumers by making alternative dispute resolution methods available to all eu citizens. this also allows for considerable financial savings compared with the costs we have had to pay under the present system.
i voted in favour of this timely and important report. the development of adr is a significant step forward for european consumers, as the development of adr systems increases the equality of european consumers by making adr available to all eu citizens. i am also pleased that we are working towards a system with an independent and transparent procedure, which is effective and simple. this is the way to increase consumer confidence in the internal market and also to promote economic growth. this new model alternative dispute resolution could also, at its best, save us up to eur 1320 billion.
i voted in favour of this timely and important report. the recent economic crisis and the debate surrounding it have shown that some economic operators are only interested in maximising economic profit by any means possible, forgetting the common good. however, more and more, especially small investors, are willing to promote the work of organisations that value ethics and that provide solutions to social problems. i therefore think it is important that parliament should seek to promote the operation of funds focusing on social entrepreneurship and to create common european rules for them. in addition, supporting these funds will help us to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
i voted in favour of this timely and important report. women's position in the labour market has been weaker than men's even before the economic crisis. the impact of the economic crisis is now exacerbating this situation, as the public sector cuts resulting from the crisis are significantly affecting not only vulnerable people but also women. for this reason, austerity measures can be seen as a double punishment for women and a step backwards on the road to equality. i am also concerned that the weak economic situation is making it even more difficult to start a family and to reconcile work and family life. i think it is important that as europe ages, we should support in every way and in all policy areas the position of women and thus also the future of europe!
i voted in favour of this timely and important report. gender stereotypes have been found to influence, for example, girls' perceptions of what occupations are more suitable for women. this is why women are underrepresented in, for example, the scientific and technical sectors. but to succeed globally, the eu cannot afford to ignore the skills of women. this is why it is so important to promote gender equality and to harness the skills and talents of all eu citizens, regardless of gender. this is the only way for the eu to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to succeed. and this is the message we must convey to all member states and to all industries!
mr president, the commission's original idea of greening agriculture was a beautiful one. we all want to reduce the environmental impact of agriculture. but as is often the case in the union, the commission's complex cloud became even more complex and confusing, and thus inefficient in terms of its original idea. fortunately, the european parliament is intervening this time. the commission's somewhat unrealistic approach to the matter is being brought to the fore in parliament. the most stringent greening requirements would have ended agriculture altogether in parts of europe. but thanks to parliament, the result will be such that food production can continue and has sufficient opportunities in the eu. in the interests of good and clean goals, i would have liked to see a clearer division between organic and efficient production already in this cycle. in future, we must make the transition to greening by investing in organic while ensuring that large units produce the mass production that the market needs. this would be a win for both nature and consumers.
in writing. now is the time to act on the promises made. if we really want to contribute to europe's competitiveness and growth, our spending must also be in line with this: research, innovation, green growth are all areas where the eu's relatively limited budget would have the greatest impact relative to its size. the debate on the multiannual financial framework is often, even in public, unfortunately bogged down in a dispute over who pays and how much and who gets paid back. it is understandable and right that in times of economic difficulty the union's budget is also being squeezed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. sometimes it's just more effective to work together than to work alone. for example, new energy infrastructure, cross-border railways or cutting-edge research are more effectively conceived and financed from a common pot. we are voting today in parliament on the mandate of the negotiating team. the requirements are reasonable and i would ask the council to be open-minded now that the negotiations are resuming. parliament rightly calls for flexibility in the future budget so that the resources can be used as efficiently as possible for the common good. the debate on the eu as a guarantor of a budget that is genuinely more stable than its own resources is not new: the council should already be listening to this.
mr president, commissioner, the european parliament wishes to support egypt's steps towards democracy and human rights. it is therefore particularly important that eu support includes conditions that enable us to monitor the implementation of human and fundamental rights. we have been following with concern the progress of the constitutional reform and the electoral law. in this context, it is quite understandable that the opposition has been reluctant to participate in the elections, as they have not been able to ensure that they are free and fair. similarly, the rise to power of the islamist party has raised legitimate concerns, in particular, for the rights of children and women, as well as for the status of religious minorities, in particular the coptic christians. genuine democracy requires support for the work of ngos and the building of civil society, and not making it more difficult for them to do their job, as is currently the case in egypt. i would nevertheless like to encourage the continuation of the association agreement, since it is certainly more sensible in the long term that egypt should stabilise both economically and politically. it is of the utmost importance not only for egypt itself but also for the whole region, especially after the arab spring uprisings.
mr president, yes, i think our winter weather in march is a good illustration of the backwater that followed the arab spring. the problem is that since coming to power, the muslim brotherhood has been interested not in democracy and good governance, but in political control. egypt has been without a legislature for almost a year after the court ruled that the constitutionality of morsi's election law must be established by the supreme court. the electoral law has made the islamist-led junta the supreme power, and the law would give morsi and his allies a disproportionate amount of power. i hope the administration will resolve this dispute peacefully. i am particularly concerned about the protection of the rights of religious minorities in egypt. local copts have estimated that christians may have a greater freedom of speech with the new regime, but at the same time others have a greater freedom to burn churches and spread misinformation about them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the greens join in the condemnation of the nuclear test and the missile activities carried out by north korea. we also demand that it abstain from further tests and condemn the official announcement that the country reserves the right to carry out a preventive nuclear strike. we call for the leadership of north korea to abide by the charter of the united nations and urge the north koreans to return to the npt and ratify its additional protocol. the dprk should re-establish its pre-existing commitments to a moratorium on missile tests and it should sign and ratify the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty. all this said, our group regrets that the ep resolution does not talk more about what all the other nuclear weapon states could and should do in order to eliminate once and for all the risk of nuclear strikes or, even worse, a nuclear war. the nuclear weapon states, including some of our eu member states, should cut the link between their status and prestige and the possession of nuclear weapons. thus, there would be less incentive for countries who want to boost their international standing to do so by acquiring a nuclear arsenal. north korea is one of them. we need to intensify worldwide efforts for nuclear disarmament. the npt is really in a crisis and the countries with existing nuclear weapons both within the npt and outside should activate themselves in nuclear disarmament. i am very glad that the european parliament has endorsed global zero and two thirds of the members underwrote this, which now has become official ep policy. this is a good starting point. now we must act more resolutely for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
mr president, we cannot accept north korea's political gambling, but we cannot accept its oppression of its own citizens in prison camps. last week, an estimate was released that the situation in the prison camps has worsened further. there are systematic human rights violations, including torture, rape, executions and starvation. amnesty says north korea has now also sealed off its prison camps. protected areas where movement is prohibited are clearly visible in satellite images. the camps may hold up to 200,000 political prisoners, who are used as slave labor. the un commissioner for human rights has said that the country's human rights record is one of the worst in the world, but at the same time, its reporting and understanding are at an all-time low. north korea denies the existence of the prison camps itself and sanctions from the international community have not helped the situation. i hope that the high representative will answer what is the eu's strategy for north korea in the humanitarian... (the speaker interrupts the speaker)
mr president, the greatest damage war does is to those who have their whole lives ahead of them. both rebel and government forces have recruited boys as young as 12 and 13 years of age to serve as child soldiers. this is a violation of international humanitarian law. according to unicef, up to half of those in need of urgent assistance are under the age of 18, with more than 500,000 under the age of 5. so there is a danger of losing an entire generation to war. the un has estimated that the number of refugees could double, if not triple, this year if the crisis continues. the eu should therefore support syria's neighbours in managing the flows of refugees and providing them with assistance. the treatment of refugees is very bad in many places. the international community has not done enough to resolve the syrian crisis. the citizens of this country cannot be left to their own devices.
mr president, the situation in mali may have been forgotten, since the media no longer report on it every day. but the situation is just as serious. it is good that france has reacted quickly to the crisis and that it has at least partially brought the situation under control. i also welcome the eu's decision to send a training mission to train the malian defence forces. but the crisis of the mal is very unpredictable. terrorists and other criminal networks control many communities, which also exacerbates the humanitarian crisis and makes it difficult to access aid. the countries neighbouring mali need support to manage the flow of refugees, and there is also an urgent need to help the internally displaced. one of the biggest risks is the spread of the crisis in the region. mali needs a political conciliation process in addition to urgent humanitarian needs. the various groups and sections of the population must consult each other about the future of the country and prepare for the forthcoming elections. i take advantage of the situation and wish the new pope blessings and wisdom.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission for this good initiative. this is the kind of initiative that is needed at this time. we need joint action to combat sport and physical activity, particularly competitive sports, and the negative aspects of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is good to remember that while we must fight the side effects of sport, it must not be the whole picture of sport. despite the fact that we are dealing today with a negative phenomenon within sport, it is good to remember that more than 90 per cent of the field of sport, including the sports industry, is broadly positive and positive, uplifting and refining people and therefore also giving people hope. in this respect, it is good that we draw a clear line on these phenomena and that we fight together globally against the organisation of games and corruption in sport, and thus seek to restore it to a sustainable and ethical basis. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the baltic sea region, and has called for the commission to take action to combat the problem.
mr president, unfortunately, because of the collusion and crime associated with gambling, the fundamental values of sports - honesty, fair play and respect for others - have already been tarnished. it's about organized crime, and there's a lot of money in it. manipulating the games is a multi-million dollar business in the asian betting market. athletes involved in cheating receive up to tens of thousands of euros in compensation for their cheating. the european union should intervene in this practice. it is a global crime that no single state, no single organisation, not even the european union, can do anything about on its own. the key to the fight is the development of effective monitoring and information exchange systems. this allows the distribution of bets and the sports events on which bets are placed to be monitored for possible anomalies. i would like to thank you, commissioner vassiliou, for your commitment to this important issue, efharisto poli!
i supported this resolution, mr president, because europe needs a forward-looking financial framework for the years ahead. we need more incentives for education, research and innovation. growth and jobs cannot be created without investment. it seems easier for national leaders to be seen as cutting eu spending than defending common european projects and values. the european pride and success story of cross-border erasmus student exchange simply could not have been achieved by national efforts, not without eu funding. the outcome of the february european council was a fiasco for the union and its citizens. the year 2013 is the european year of citizens. there's no party for the theme year. so all that remains is to tighten the belt, despite the big words and promises. i'm afraid that's not true.
i voted in favour of this reasonable and balanced report. it is important that the solution now proposed is reasonable and fair to all member states. in the interests of fairness, 12 member states will lose one seat in the 2014 elections and no member state will be allowed to renew it. i think it is right and reasonable that finland is not on the cut-off list, as it was already in 2009. it should be remembered that although parliament has the right of initiative in the allocation of seats, the final decision is taken by the eu member states. it is to be hoped that the council, when it finally decides on this matter, will not make last-minute concessions to some member states, but that the council will respect parliament's decision. european democracy must not be watered down by political cow-trading.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the negotiating mandate, as i found that its content remained essentially unchanged compared to the recommendation made by the committee on agriculture. the content of the mandate in its current form is very well suited to the specific requirements of finnish agriculture, especially with the approval of the 15% coupled aid. in addition to the sufficiently high percentage of coupled support, the essential factor in my support for the report was parliament's approval of the derogation for the regions north of 62° north latitude from the three crop requirement. the derogation covers a large part of finland and is a reasonable mitigation of the commission's original proposal, taking into account the short growing season. the report also makes life easier for the finnish farmer by helping to reduce the amount of paperwork he has to do each year. the northern conditions of our country were well understood in the greening requirements and parliament supported the possibility of continuing profitable agriculture also in the less favoured regions of europe.
in writing. −i voted in favour of the energy progress report, as the resolution contains many good proposals that will guide the eu in a sustainable way in its energy policy towards 2050. i welcome many of the votes, for example that it would be a mistake to make binding targets for renewable energy and emission reductions now, even as an intermediate target for 2030, as the world energy market is undergoing major changes. the increase in research on climate change may also force new changes in the actions we choose to take. as climate science evolves, the focus is shifting from carbon dioxide control to faster and more effective measures to combat climate change, such as the elimination of black carbon. so it's better to focus on visions of a sustainable energy future, but we're not going to lock in anything binding for now. the leaked ipcc assessment report indicates that the role of co2 is declining, and our politicians should be aware of this. i would like to say, however, that i strongly disagree with article 91 on emissions trading, which was adopted by a narrow margin of three votes. it would be a grave mistake to withdraw allowances from the market now, just as we are about to emerge from the recession. this would lead to an increase in the price of electricity paid by consumers and businesses, which is a completely wrong signal in the current economic situation. emissions trading works well because emissions are reduced as planned. similarly, the linear reduction requirement of 1,74 per cent should not be affected, and any necessary structural changes should be targeted beyond 2020. only in this way can we provide a reliable and credible operating environment for our companies.
in writing. - i voted against the energy roadmap. the adoption of article 91 as part of the final package was a key factor in my decision to vote against. article 91 is the basis for the commission's proposal on emissions trading, which we shall be voting on in the next plenary session with this in mind. the commission proposal aims to remove allowances from the market prematurely, thus artificially increasing the price of allowances. at the same time, unfortunately, the price of energy is also rising. in the present economic situation in europe, i cannot support this procedure. article 91 calls on the commission to act swiftly to improve the environmental impact of emissions trading and thus indirectly to prepare for the removal of allowances from the market. in this case, i feel it is better to let the market operate autonomously and on the terms of production. the economic well-being of europe must take precedence over the commission's unexpectedly narrow objectives.
in writing. - i am absolutely in favour of developing nuclear safety to the maximum and therefore voted in favour of the report, even though this is not the responsibility of the eu but of the member states. it's just creating a false perspective. i wish we could someday bring the power of carbon under similar scrutiny, the radiation it causes, the particle deaths it causes. now europe is significantly increasing coal power while driving down nuclear power. they're even taking coal power as a regulating force for renewables, which is just crazy. who will care for the thousands of people who die prematurely because of this energy choice?
mr president, immigration is a broad and multidimensional subject and policy area both in europe and around the world. the year 2004 brought 10 new member states into the union at once. this created concern and negative attitudes towards immigration. immigration became a feared and uncertain topic, which populist politicians have now successfully tackled. in the midst of europe's crisis, immigration is seen as an even bigger problem. the main idea should be to integrate immigrants to help our labour market. unfortunately, in many member states, immigration policy is still in its infancy. the aim should be to improve and facilitate legal immigration. the integration of immigrants into the labour market is admittedly a long process requiring hard work and political will, but we must not give in to populism.
mr president, the peaceful transition to democracy in egypt has not taken place as planned and as expected. for this reason, the eu has not provided the financial support it promised to egypt. it is important that eu support is always linked to the development of democracy. the new guideline of the european union's neighbourhood policy, 'more for more', is unequivocal. no exception should be made for egypt. europe must not question the legitimacy of the egyptian government. elections have been held in egypt, and the government of the country is elected by the people. despite this, egypt is still in a negative downward spiral. it is reflected in growing social problems, mass unemployment, growing poverty and lack of opportunity. the eu must be consistent in its criticism. i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, the establishment of a strategic partnership between the eu and china is of great importance. it offers the potential to find solutions to global issues such as global security, the economic crisis, workers' rights, the democratic deficit, climate change and the promotion of human rights. a strategic partnership requires a strong commitment to mutual accountability and a strong mutual trust. the eu-china strategic partnership must be based on the universal values that the eu has embraced. in any event, i voted in favour of this balanced report. the eu should continue its constructive dialogue with china. it should also continue to take an honest and critical stance and also encourage the development of human and social rights in china.
i support the commission's statement, but i would add that it is important for the prevention of gambling crime that information is quickly shared between the key players at both local and international level. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations. one solution to this problem would also be to identify the player and to limit the bet placed by the player. in my own country, finland, we already do this and the results are good and encouraging. the problem, however, is that illegal gambling companies do not verify the identity of players or limit the amount of money they can wager. if we really want to tackle the problem of gambling, we should also tackle the operation of illegal betting sites.
the author. - mr president, there are several minority groups in iraq whose treatment does not meet iraq's national and international commitments and objectives. we have only just approved the partnership between the eu and iraq a few months ago, and now there are already problems. iraq is a confluence of different nationalities and cultures. with over ten thousand years of history, it has a rich and valuable cultural heritage to transmit. the iraqi constitution guarantees equal treatment for turkmen, chaldeans, kurds, assyrians and other nationalities in the country. the efforts to ensure the fair treatment of minorities must continue and the european union must support iraq in this work. the fight against poverty, improvements in education and health and employment-related reforms are the cornerstones of this social and human development in iraq. the right of different minorities to live according to their own cultural heritage must be safeguarded. a society cannot be healthy and vibrant if women, who make up half the population, are excluded from decision-making.
mr president, ten years after the war on saddam hussein, we are unfortunately witnessing an iraq that is as insecure and brutal a place to live for its minorities as it ever was. the recent wave of terrorist attacks and outright executions in iraq has again killed hundreds of people. it seems that minorities in particular are in gravest danger. while in this resolution there is no mention of camp liberty, it is my moral duty to mention the more than three thousand people who live in inhuman conditions just kilometres away from the government of iraq and the diplomatic compounds of the rest of the world. they are also a minority in iraq; iranian refugees with no status and no security. the state of iraq is not doing enough to protect these unarmed civilians. just last night there was another victim in camp liberty, as mr hamid rabi died of the wounds he sustained in the missile attack on the camp last month.
mr president, the turkomans of iraq are the third largest ethnic minority and live mainly in the north of iraq. the nation has suffered from several mass killings, the most famous of which is probably the kirkuk massacre of 1959. throughout history, the turkmens have been used by many different entities for their own purposes, the ruling baath party at one time as well as the kurds. there have been attempts to assimilate the turkmen and to destroy their culture. so far, this so-called democratization process in iraq has meant problems for minorities, who have suffered particularly from the unstable situation in iraq since the fall of saddam's regime. it is high time that minority groups were consulted on how to build structures to protect and defend them, and the international community should appeal to the current iraqi administration to ensure that the rights of minority groups are respected.
the author. - mr president, regardless of whether we vote jointly or as a group on the resolution on palestinian prisoners, we agree that the parties must respect certain principles. the most important of these is abstention from violence and extremism, and the second is respect for international law. as president shimon peres recalled, the goal is still two states in which both israelis and palestinians can live a life free of violence. both parties must demonstrate this desire in practice. there is already talk among the palestinians of a third intifada, which is in no one's interest. violence is not the answer in the case of arafat yaradatinka. despite the serious political situation, prisoners must be treated with dignity. almost every palestinian has a relative or friend in prison, and it is understandable that the situation has provoked an emotional reaction. however, we cannot tell from the outside what really happened in the prison, and the case must be thoroughly investigated. we also wanted to make sure that we didn't make any preconceived notions about releasing all the palestinian prisoners. each case must be examined separately. but the real prisoners must be released.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the epp group has tabled its own resolution and i will briefly go over the main points of our own resolution. firstly, we believe that an independent investigation into the circumstances of the death of arafat jaradat is needed to clear up any ambiguities. our group considers it very important at this stage that, whatever the cause of the death of the palestinian man, the eu should call for the calm of the emotions and the calm of the unrest in the palestinian territories, so that there is no new uprising, which would again hinder the prospects for the continuation of the peace negotiations. we also stress that israel has a right to security and that a democratic state must ensure that the rule of law is respected, even in difficult circumstances, including in prisons. i hope in particular that this has now been made clear to mr auken, who said that we are not interested in this matter and that the epp has no position on this.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the relationship between the european union and israel is based on respect for human rights and international law and it has therefore been very worrying to hear that torture is being used in prisons. the debate surrounding the death of yasser arafat has also been very confusing. children and women are the most vulnerable group of detainees and therefore we must ensure that all conditions are better and definitely more caring for children and women than we have been told. all forms of physical and psychological abuse and humiliation must be avoided. we particularly stress that it is very important to avoid a worsening of the situation in that already difficult region at a time when israeli-palestinian relations and the middle east peace process as a whole are at their most fragile.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for not taking this controversial issue through the first reading agreement, the short-cut procedure, but letting the whole house decide on it. the shortcut procedure was designed to save time and avoid red tape where there is consensus. if it is used to play the positions of whole committees or political groups, a democratic deficit is created. i'm glad they didn't this time. the energy efficiency directive did. our group opposes the idea of raising the price of emission allowances by back-loading. there are several reasons for this. the market is volatile; it's not that the emissions market was not working well when the price fell, it was meant to be, it was a natural consequence of the recession. now that the recession has brought about the reduction of emissions, the market mechanism is no longer suitable for the commission. the attempt to alter the mechanism in this way artificially is illogical and contemptuous of all parties. it is also irresponsible policy in a recession, not to eat the growth. we agree that a number of different national practices without a level playing field would be a very unfortunate situation. most also agree that structural reform is needed to achieve emissions trading. it is essential to look honestly at what is most disturbing the emissions trading market: in the confused jungle of subsidies, we lack a level playing field in the energy market, which is why no one today dares to invest in anything but subsidised energy. but why is the commission not doing something about it? why does it threaten that if we do not raise the cost, we will be left with national policies? why does it not try to prevent this artificial national support for renewable energy, which distorts the market? we can't have a normal coal market otherwise. it's not good for the renewables, which are not going to be profitable, because they don't have to go to the market to get profitability, it comes to the supplier. it's like breastfeeding.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to the industry's arguments on emissions trading, it seems strange that the companies that have received and will receive their emission allowances for free are opposed to this back-loading, but instead there are many back-loading supporters who are now paying for their emission allowances, namely the electricity companies. i understand that back-loading is favoured by companies wishing to invest in europe. companies that see that if we now, with the low price of coal, attract investment in hard and brown coal, we are setting up a trap for the company to make investments that in a few years will prove to be a mistake and will be very costly to our society. to those who think that by fighting back-loading we are making way for something new and better, i want to say: i'm sorry, if the emissions trading collapses, the result is only the free right to pollute for free.
in writing. the vote on the so-called rebalancing of the emissions trading system is one of the most important and certainly the most discussed votes of the week. i hope that the majority of this house will support the motion. the rejection of the proposal would send a sad message about the political will to address the climate issue. the fight against climate change cannot be solved by emissions trading alone, but the functioning of the scheme as a flagship of eu climate policy is important. the price of the emission rights is a drag. at the same time, the surplus of rights has only increased year by year. the ets is not a vacuum, it is a market created by legislation. it is not a question of the market mechanism not being able to act, but of the system having an original defect: free allowances float on the market until there is a surplus. the scheme was created to guide investment in building a low-carbon society. however, with the happy meal costing roughly the same as a ton of coal, it is perhaps not surprising that the system does not support the level change requested at present. at the same time, the need to combat climate change is becoming increasingly clear. it is extremely worrying and sad that the level of ambition for climate action is not increasing at the same time that estimates of up to 6 degrees of warming by the end of the century are becoming more common. backloading is just a repair business, and it's not going to solve climate change. in future, a mandatory decision on a more profound reform of the ets will be necessary.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done, even though my group is not satisfied with the outcome. we very much regret that the eu has now decided to suspend aviation emissions trading for flights between the eu and the rest of the world for a year. we could accept this if the eu decided at the same time to use the revenues from aviation emissions trading to help developing countries with climate action, but unfortunately the eu governments did not accept this. we believe that the eu is a two-faced institution. on the other hand, we say that we want an international system to curb air transport emissions, and that is absolutely right. but in fact, in international negotiations, the main argument against this is the so-called principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, which is constantly invoked by china and india, among others. our best way to neutralize the chinese and indian resistance to the international aviation emissions trading system, or to the international system at all, is to promise to use the revenues we ourselves get from aviation emissions trading to help developing countries with climate action. and now, unfortunately, this has not been accepted by the governments of the eu countries. this would have been a real way of promoting the creation of an international system to control aviation emissions. unfortunately, many seem to interpret the solution now at hand as nothing more than the surrender of the eu to a campaign organized by the big international airlines.
mr president, the principle of equal treatment for men and women is important and i can only agree with the report's demand that the commission's follow-up report be important in order to assess the implementation of the directive in the member states. the relationship between gender and insurance products is, however, more complicated due to the diversity of insurance products. if statistics show that women take fewer risks in transport, have fewer road accidents and live longer, why should this objective data not be taken into account in insurance premiums? i am afraid that now, after the court decision, the only change will be that the insurance premiums for women in these sectors will increase. i'm worried about this waiver being taken away. in the case of pension insurance, maternity and care leave for women often reduces the pension accumulation. it is good that the report has taken account of the fact that many practices which create inequality are the result of stereotypes which are presented in advertising and also in the media.
mr president, commissioner, cybersecurity has become a very central issue in the consideration of threats to the security of societies. the commission's recent eu cybersecurity strategy is based on the premise that each country will seek to manage its cyber environment at national level against, and also respond to and recover from, adverse effects, whether intentional or unintentional. joint coordination and cooperation through the european network and information security agency (enisa) will help to build muscle against cybercrime and also prevent cybersecurity threats at eu level. it is hoped that this regulation will now enable the creation of a modern european network and information security agency. in a modern society, when you get down on your knees, you're also more efficient at shutting down critical infrastructure like transportation, payment systems, or the energy grid. the cyber environment is made up of not only the public sector but also a wide range of businesses and the private sector.
on behalf of the efd group. welcome to the european parliament, prime minister katainen. you have said that the finnish line is fair integration, and of course nobody is against fair integration, but its practical content will certainly give rise to very different views, as you have heard today. many people think that, for example, income transfers and solidarity in general are fair. you say that you are in favour of deeper integration, but you constantly avoid, both at home and in your speech now, certain domestically difficult subjects and, above all, even the use of the word federation, and therefore you have never told us whether you are opposed to it or in favour of it. here in the european parliament, the word 'federation' can be used freely. you have heard some very far-reaching visions today. and the more directly you express your position on this question of principle, the clearer your line will become to my colleagues and to the citizens. among the key leaders of the member states, angela merkel, for example, has already openly expressed her wish to continue european integration gradually to a level that she sees as equivalent to a european federation. the uk's david cameron, on the other hand, has given an opposite vision of the future. so, dear prime minister, why go around the citizens and, of course, my colleagues on such an interesting, principled and important matter? i am sure that your line of fair integration also includes an honest stance: do you support federalism or not? if you think the federal government needs to be defined more precisely, define it and then answer. i am referring to the increase in revenue transfers, central government and solidarity. at least tell us, is your line closer to the british line or the german line?
mr president, prime minister katainen, you spoke rightly of fair, pragmatic and value-driven integration in these times of financial crisis. while populists in different countries repeat their eu one-liners, we in the european people’s party have been focusing on steering europe’s economy towards growth and coming up with serious solutions to serious problems. as was said by chairman daul at last week’s epp bureau meeting in croatia, our logic has been to focus on the economy in order to be able to create social policy; to focus on growth in order to be able to create jobs. i shall continue in finnish. on aivan luonnollista, että jokainen jäsenvaltio haluaa rahansa takaisin. tiedämme kuitenkin, ettei se ole loogisesti mahdollista: jos kaikki saavat saman verran takaisin, eihän rahoja kannattaisi lainkaan kierrättää brysselin kautta. mutta eräässä mielessä me kaikki haluamme rahamme takaisin, me haluamme sen vahvuutena, yhteistyön voimana, lisäarvona siten, että yhdessä olemme enemmän kuin yksin. mutta se ei onnistu, ellemme kunnioita unionin perusarvoja, ja näin minä ymmärsin jyrki kataisen viestin. deepening the internal market is not a particularly sexy topic, but it is the area of integration that is the most likely to show inside the wallets of european citizens. the field with possibly the greatest potential for growth and job creation is our common digital market, of which finland has been a great champion. i would like to pay my compliments to our government for this. europe-wide much has been done, but the pace of digital market integration has not been as fast as desired. all the institutions – but especially the member states – are responsible for this. i am currently our group’s shadow rapporteur on the proposed directive on collective management of copyright, and after numerous discussions with stakeholders, i would like to raise a couple of concerns. the creative industries play a great role in the creation of growth and jobs, and therefore, we should promote the position and role of content providers, i.e. musicians, song-writers, composers, etc. it is particularly important for the advancement of the internal market that the conditions of the european content providers are taken care of. a clear risk is the loss of european competitiveness, linguistic and cultural diversity. having said this, i am very grateful for the work of minister alexander stubb in the promotion of the finnish music industry, and also to president barroso’s cabinet.
mr. speaker, representative terho tried to put a federal card on prime minister katai. i did not get a blue card, but i would have asked what mr terho's views and those of his party and his parliamentary group are on the european union and the euro in general. there's a flea circus. but, mr president, i would like to express my respect and appreciation for prime minister katainen for his ability to steer the debate on the future of europe in the citizens' assemblies, both in finland and here in strasbourg. this is a very important issue, and the belief in the primacy of argument is extremely important at a time when eurosceptics have taken over the air, and even issues which deeply affect the very foundations of the european union have been called into question, such as freedom of movement, the question of democracy and other common values. fortunately, there are very good examples of the power of debate and citizen pressure. and indeed, the debate is moving mountains: for example, the debate on tax evasion, particularly tax havens, has now triggered a process which a year ago seemed impossible. luxembourg is opening up its banking secrecy, austria is opening up its banking secrecy, and even david cameron has put many important issues of tax transparency and fairness on the political agenda. the dublin meeting of finance ministers did indeed make progress, and that is a great thing. i would like to ask the same question as mr swoboda, the chairman of the socialist group, and mr gustafsson: is it possible that now, with the demand for transparency, the desire to break down banking secrecy, the desire for fairness and social morality, the finnish government would re-examine this transaction tax in a new political situation? the european union needs justice challenges at the moment, and i think tax havens and the implementation of the ftt would be such justice challenges.
mr president, it is great to have the prime minister of finland, katainen, here. the prime ministers of the member states are not very common visitors. the theme of your speech was a fair europe, and we are all in agreement on that. but i would have expected more concrete and visionary. we need those visions, too. a year ago, the idea of tax havens was still a distant vision. today, it is possible, but it takes willpower. the eu commission has calculated that illegal tax evasion and questionable tax competition have cost member states a billion dollars. i would have expected you, mr prime minister, to have made concrete proposals to prevent tax evasion and to eliminate tax havens. we need these visions. the eu and its member states have built a banking union. the budgetary powers of the member states have been reduced, but tax evasion, corruption and the activities of tax havens have not been encouraged. the commission has also been unnecessarily inaccessible in this respect. the big question for the future of the european union at the moment is: will the weaknesses of the eurosystem be corrected by increasing solidarity in taxation and building federalism, or will flexibility be increased to take account of the different circumstances of citizens? i would have liked to have had more concrete information from you on this too, because you certainly have the ability to bring these presentations and to create visions.
mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, corporate tax evasion costs €2,000 per year per eu citizen. integration is moving at different speeds, with firms becoming easier to operate internationally as a result of the single market, but measures to curb tax evasion are becoming less effective. in order to avoid being at the bottom of the welfare state race and to avoid having citizens suffering from the consequences of the budget cuts, not only this year and next year but for all the years to come, in order for integration to provide security for ordinary people and continuity for the european welfare state, we must defend its financial base, put an end to tax havens and tax evasion and create european taxes such as the financial transaction tax. i am sorry that the finnish government has just decided to enter a competition to reduce corporate taxes.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr giles chichester, for this excellent report, which has been carefully drafted. we know that chichester is an expert in this field too, and that cyber security is the most important issue at the moment when we look at the european reality. cybersecurity is important because people, businesses and governments operate in networks, and we know that international crime is constantly trying to break into those networks, and that's where the battle is fierce. this activity of enisa should therefore be strengthened. the agency is necessary and must be strengthened. in this respect, it is in the interest of the whole of europe, and above all of the european citizens. we need more expertise in this area, and i know that when we talk about the future of enisa, we also have strong expertise in this area in finland, so i believe that the european union will also look to finland when further action is taken on this matter.
mr president, it is regrettable that a solution to this problem could not be reached today. so, because of the ets, the wild years of industry can continue. the significant surplus of allowances will only grow further if nothing is done. in many cases, it is cheaper for industry to buy cheap emission allowances than to invest in new and cleaner ones. back-loading would be a coherent short-term option to bring stability to the eu ets until the necessary long-term structural measures are adopted. the european emissions trading system is currently in serious imbalance. the eu rules would therefore need to be amended. the current rules were unfortunately poorly prepared in their time. i understand the views of the business community that industrial investment requires long-term industrial and climate and energy policies.
mr president, thank you for this opportunity to say a few words on this back-loading issue. it is true that greenhouse gas emissions are big and important issues, and today, after the vote, we did indeed decide to go back to committee, which is a good thing. on the other hand, i would have wished that we had already been able to make a decision, because we voted very patriotically at the beginning. i think that this is not the way to go about things, that suddenly in the middle of the season you start changing the rules. as europeans we must take care of the competitiveness of the european union, and as a citizen of finland, a finn, a representative of the nation state, i also believe that it is important to take care of finland's competitiveness within the european union. and as far as emissions trading is concerned, it must be a global mechanism and we must act in such a way that we do not unduly harm european and finnish industry and, above all, what is important here is that we do not start changing things in the middle of the programming period, but indeed predictability is also important for decision-makers and industry, and in this way we must take care of our competitiveness.
in writing. - i am proud that my group took a clear stand and decided to reject the commission's back-loading proposals. our message to the citizens before the forthcoming european elections is that we want a europe of work and, more specifically, a world which is sustainable in terms of environmental values. we will not support a climate policy which is made at the expense of clean european production and industry. it can't be right that politics punishes the one who is pure. then we need to fix the climate policy structures, not raise prices over and over again. the correction should be made when the 2030 targets are being drawn up. we don't want to kill the emissions trading. on the contrary, we hope that this market mechanism will be given a break so that its best features will emerge. it can help to find the most cost-effective way of reducing emissions, but this requires clarification of the carbon market. the commission has threatened that if we do not raise the price of emission allowances, the emissions trading will be destroyed and we will be left with a jumbled list of national politicians. this is not the case and it is the commission which can do something about it. a fair and well-functioning carbon market requires that emissions trading is not disrupted by overlapping legislation. if the commission wants to save the emissions trading system, it should rely on it as a market mechanism. emissions trading does the job and also steers the increase in renewable energy without the need for separate renewable energy and energy efficiency targets. it is these national subsidies for renewable energy that have distorted the energy market. it is not good for the european economy that we are developing energy which is not profitable in itself.
in writing. - i voted to reject the rebalancing of the emissions trading system. allowing back-balancing would not have reduced world emissions but, above all, would have redirected more european industry to countries where emissions are not controlled. the result would have been an increase in total emissions and a threat to jobs in the member states. the rebalancing would have raised the price of the allowance now, which in turn would have raised the price of energy in the short term. in the present economic situation in europe, such an artificial increase in energy prices would have been irresponsible and harmful to our industry. europe's industry is technically advanced and among the cleanest in the world. by keeping production here, we're actually reducing emissions better than if we were to move production to cheaper countries.
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of this important report. equality between women and men is one of the union's fundamental principles. this is a principle we must uphold even in times of economic crisis! the report notes that in some member states women entrepreneurs face discrimination in the loan market. i hope that this kind of discrimination (based on sex) will be stopped as soon as possible. europe needs more jobs and growth. (this much-needed growth is being achieved, for example, by supporting women entrepreneurs.) in the current economic climate, we cannot afford to leave any potential entrepreneur behind. on the contrary, we must do everything we can to support them in this precious work! and we must convey this message to all the member states and to all those responsible for financing companies!
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of this important report. trade between the eu and developing countries is one of the most important ways of promoting human rights and democracy. at the same time, it gives us the opportunity to fight poverty and corruption. this is why it is important that we do everything possible to promote humane working conditions and to promote the right of workers to form or join trade unions. (former unctad director-general rubens ricupero has stated that industrialised countries are engaging in selective liberalisation in a globalised world. the interest in liberalisation has generally waned as the discussion has turned to products of importance to developing countries, labour mobility or immigration.) for developing countries to feel truly part of the international community and to be able to benefit from globalisation, we must not only treat them as raw material producers, but also listen to their voices and treat them as equal partners!
in writing. - i supported the proposal because i believe that it is good to improve trade between developing countries, in particular by improving regional cooperation. the global economic environment has changed significantly: eu action on trade, investment and development in developing countries must take on new dimensions. the eu must assume its responsibilities, for example as the largest trading partner of many african countries. it is also good that, alongside traditional indicators such as gdp, new indicators are being developed to monitor bilateral agreements and market fluctuations. the indicators presented take better account of the circumstances and needs of developing countries. by intervening in the trade agreements with developing countries, we are also creating jobs and developing human capital in poor countries!
mr president, the parliament's report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2011 continues to repeat the already familiar proposals: a financial transaction tax, a european debt rescue fund and a deposit guarantee fund. so, more of the so-called solidarity at the same time as more and more euro countries are falling into deeper and deeper difficulties. the report was very poorly received in the econ committee because it contains these inappropriate points, such as the mention of the financial transaction tax as one of the components of the eu's own resources. it is a peculiar thing that this tax project is being pushed forward as if it were self-evident and a side-note, even though it lacks the broad support of the member states. i cannot support a european debt relief fund which would continue the moral decline in europe. it is not sustainable to continue the policy of increasingly solidarising debts, whereby the invoice is always sent to an address other than the one responsible for the situation. i will therefore not accept the report's attempt to increase solidarity and moral decay, and if these are not corrected in separate votes, i will have to vote against the report.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries. − madam president, there is reason to be satisfied with the implementation of title 11 of the budget. the reason is the very high implementation rate. also, the court of auditors had no major observations on the annual activity report of the directorate-general for maritime affairs and fisheries. however, i would like to mention that the court of auditors also completed a very important special report the same year. from the point of view of the committee on fisheries, there is an interesting special report by the court of auditors. the report cites critical weaknesses in the design and implementation of measures to reduce fishing overcapacity. the selection criteria for fishing vessels and the decommissioning schemes were not always very well targeted, which resulted in fishing vessels being scrapped which had no or very little impact on the fish stocks in question. eighty per cent of the eu budget is spent by member states. however, there is little or nothing the commission or parliament can do if member states do not correct or report the figures or money they have spent in the wrong way. the commission should therefore be given the possibility to freeze and withdraw eu funding from member states who do not follow the rules.
mr president, european union agencies do a very important job. they bring together the expertise that is needed in policy-making, they inform citizens of the union and they coordinate and respond to critical and sudden situations and scenarios, as was last witnessed in the case of the horsemeat scandal. in carrying out this important task, the agencies also carry a great responsibility. they must conduct their daily business in a way that is absolutely transparent; they are running on european taxpayers’ money, after all. in this respect, looking back on the financial year 2011, we can be satisfied that there was clear progress as regards several agencies that had not proved their effectiveness enough the previous year. and by the way, i am quite convinced that a great deal of this was because the rapporteur last year was clear and staunch about the goal of the discharge process. it is our duty to make sure that the agencies do everything they can to avoid conflicts of interest and to have more effective administration and better budgeting. therefore, we must be clear and sure about granting discharge. and therefore this year we should, to my mind, postpone discharge in the case of the european environment agency. it is the only rational thing we can do. let me explain why. with the olaf investigation almost finished – we know for a fact that it will be published in a couple of weeks – and with some of the issues still requiring clarification, i want to see whether the investigation will provide answers. i want everyone to understand that it would harm the environment agency even more if we granted discharge now and then it turned out that we should not have granted it. in fact the information that i have points in this direction. and that is why this parliament should now take a time-out from discharging the eea. we have to err on the side of caution on this.
i think it is very important, mr president, that we in the european parliament now pay attention to budgetary discipline. we must be careful not to set a stereotypical example for the european nations, the member states of the european union, which are currently in economic difficulties, not to understand the seriousness of the situation here, but we must now really think very carefully about how we use the common funds and how we can use them in such a way that, in addition to responsibility, the element of growth is also strongly visible. we need sustainable growth in the european union, and to do that we must also be very careful in our own budgetary adjustments and look at investments which are long-term investments and will therefore also return back stronger growth and prosperity for the whole of europe.
i voted in favour of this report. it is also very important that we in the european parliament look very closely at our expenditure and also take into account that we have to act very responsibly here as representatives of the voters and thus ensure responsible financial management. i also believe that transparency is needed; only then can we increase trust in the citizens, and it is very important that the dimension of transparency be further strengthened in the relationship between the citizens and the european parliament. trust is the most important thing when we want to build the europe of the future, and trust can only be based on the fact that we are able to control the activities of the various institutions and the activities of the members of parliament in an open democracy.
mr president, the process of discharge of the separate eu agencies is an important part of the protection of citizens' interests in the european union. eu agencies serve citizens and decision-makers at many levels. if there is reason to suspect that the agency is not doing everything right, parliament must ensure that taxpayers' money is used properly. the eu's anti-fraud agency is currently investigating the work of the european environment agency because of suspicions. when i, as the chief negotiator of my group, pushed the postponement of the discharge until october, a heated debate was launched in parliament, with the defenders of the environment agency using a peculiar argument: they say that the agency should not be judged on the basis of mere suspicion. it's obvious. if it were a question of conviction, that would be the case, but the question of suspension of discharge is not one of conviction but of time. i wanted to know everything there was to know about the epa before i could grant a discharge. that's why i voted to postpone the discharge. unfortunately, this time it wasn't enough.
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of this important report. the report is about the functioning of the internal market, but also about the role of children and the future we want to create for europe. ensuring adequate support for children is part of the responsibilities of parents. this obligation does not end even if the children's parents are divorced and live in different countries. being a single parent often also increases the risk of poverty. the economic crisis has indeed made the economic situation of many single parents worse, despite their continued full-time work. the situation is particularly bad in southern europe. poverty in single-parent families increases the risk of social exclusion for children and young people, and unfortunately, poverty experienced as a child often leads to exclusion and poverty as an adult. that is why i believe that we must do everything possible to support the economic position of single parents and to facilitate the international inheritance of maintenance.
mr president, i am in principle in favour of croatia's membership, but its economic situation is very serious and the reforms cannot stop when croatia becomes a member of the eu. a few weeks ago i put a written question to the commission concerning croatia's readiness to join the eu. croatia is generally regarded as a model for our enlargement policy. but it was the only country in europe that did not see any economic growth. unemployment, especially among young people, the public deficit and debt have risen, and the investment climate has suffered. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the extension of the transitional period to the end of the transitional period. we must take responsibility for this expansion, which is almost a fact. i hope we have not made the wrong decision, and i wish croatia all the best. i also hope that the eu will become more of an interest to croatian citizens in the future. twenty-one per cent of the vote is not a good result in the european elections. but it is great that the epp sister party won the elections.
mr president, in 2005 i did not vote for turkey's membership because i saw great problems in the nationalism of the country, especially in the degradation of turkishness. i still see a number of problems, for example article 301, but i think we should also thank turkey for its reforms. we need turkey's political and economic clout. i understand that the turks now feel that once one reform has been implemented, the eu will invent another. the turkish people feel that they have been humiliated and that their enthusiasm for the eu has been reduced to the very foundations. this is not good for anyone. i agree with the turks that the report does not give sufficient prominence to the positive developments in turkey. turkey plays a very important role in ensuring the eu's energy security. i also hope that the eu will deepen its closer cooperation on foreign and security policy. we have seen the positive role that turkey has played in dealing with the syrian crisis. i would also like to congratulate turkey on the peace process ...' (the president interrupted the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, commissioner füle, thank you for your interesting opening and for the optimism that you have shown both in relation to arctic policy and to the possible permanent observer status of the european union in the arctic council. it is a great thing that the arctic has not become the eldorado that was thought a few years ago, with countries rushing to find minerals, gas and oil. the exploitation of the arctic's natural resources has proved to be much more difficult than initially thought, e.g. shell has already given up drilling precisely because of the harsh conditions. this is actually a good thing, because now there is more time than anyone imagined for the sustainable and peaceful exploitation of the area and for respecting the rights of the people who live there. a distinction must be made between the antarctic and the arctic. the arctic is not just water, it is the territory of sovereign states, and it is the territory of indigenous peoples, especially indigenous peoples. it is well to think that this generation could be the first to really take the interests and rights of indigenous peoples into account. i was recently interviewed by a sami television representative - the sami are one of the indigenous peoples of the north - and they asked me what the european union means to us. do you in the european union know that the sámi exist and how the european union and brussels could be brought closer to us? i think these are very relevant questions and one answer to this is that, as the commissioner said, there is a strong desire to establish an arctic information centre in rovaniemi, and this could be the one that would collect information and also involve indigenous peoples in arctic policy. the arctic is a prime example of how international agreements have already succeeded in curbing peace and sustainable development in the region. a very good example of this cooperation is the agreement between norway and russia in 2010 which settled a long-standing dispute in the barents region. this is also an example of the importance of the arctic council in being able to promote such agreements. the construction of infrastructure in the region, and in particular the construction of transport links to the arctic, must indeed be strengthened, and as parliament's report states, it is good to do so together and under the umbrella of the northern dimension. in this report by mr gahler, we have placed particular emphasis on the integration of the northern dimension and its strategic policy, particularly in the field of transport and logistics. it would also be important to know how the commission really intends to integrate the northern dimension into this arctic policy, and even more importantly, when the european union's arctic strategy will be drawn up. it has been under construction for a long time, and it is indeed time to see concrete results. i would like to thank the commissioner for these research perspectives and for the contribution made by the european union, which will then be able to further justify the permanent observer status of the european union in the arctic council.
for the alde group mr president, the arctic has water, ice and nature, but it also has four million people who want to develop their own livelihoods and those of their region. the region must be given growth and investment, but in a way that respects the principles of sustainable development and respect for natural diversity. the eu's arctic policy lacks a strategy and my group proposes and supports the development of an eu arctic strategy as soon as possible and complete, taking into account the livelihoods, the environment and, of course, the people. i thank commissioner füle for raising the need for this arctic information centre. the liberal group in this parliament, under my leadership, has given this project full support from the outset, and the university of lapland's cooperation network is currently preparing an impact assessment on this subject, and i hope that this centre will then be established permanently. i would also like to express my group's support for the eu's bid to become a permanent observer member of the arctic council; i am pleased to hear that the commissioner saw good opportunities in this. this is in the interests of the eu, it is in the interests of the arctic council and it is in the interests of the people of this region. the nordic issues must be high on the political agenda of the european union, and i hope that the next time we discuss this issue, we will have a discussion a little earlier, because the placement of the debate itself is indicative. finally, i would like to say that there is no delegation for arctic affairs in the european parliament. it is a matter of principle, and i am sure that the next parliament will be able to do so, if we do not have time for it, and it will give greater weight to arctic policy here in parliament too, and i hope that we will now work together to take this matter forward and thus take it to an even more important stage here in parliament and in the commission as a whole, of course, and in the eu.
mr president, mr commissioner, in may the arctic council will indeed decide on the eu's application to become a permanent observer member of the council. the question of parliament rightly raises the concern whether we have something to offer in this cooperation, that is, whether we have a clear and updated plan and sustainable objectives for an eu strategy for the arctic regions. the 2012 communication did indeed provide some guidance, and i would particularly like to highlight the excellent and comprehensive report by mr gahler on a sustainable eu policy for the northernmost regions, which was adopted by parliament in january 2011. it balanced the emphasis on the potential of the arctic regions, their vast natural resources, raw materials and energy resources, new transport routes and tourism, with a focus on the vulnerability of the fragile arctic nature and the rights of indigenous peoples. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the commissioner said that the commission was considering the possibility of setting up an eu arctic information centre. it is hardly surprising that the finns in this room have been in favour of this. the university of lapland in rovaniemi has been successful in the preliminary competition for the establishment of the eu arctic information centre and is certainly ready to contribute expertise to the eu's responsible arctic policy in this role.
the question of the blue card. mr president, you were right to say that the european parliament's longstanding decision to ban the sale of seal skins has angered indigenous peoples. i ask you, do you always tell these people that it is the sale of seal skins from indigenous peoples that has been exempted, that is, that they can be sold? because i know that this question is indeed still being raised in the canadian press and elsewhere. have you corrected this misunderstanding?
in writing. − the global economic and financial crisis has worsened the human rights situation. if there is a crisis in europe, we now have a growing human rights crisis. as early as 2009, amnesty international warned us about this, but we were very poorly prepared. the human rights situation in various parts of the world remains a serious problem because of a weakening economy. in europe too, we have a number of challenges on our hands. there are still some tough decisions to be made. above all, we must think of those who need our help and support. in third countries, more and more people are falling into poverty, unemployment is rising rapidly, women's rights are being weakened and children in particular are suffering as a result of a weak economy. if no further action is taken, it could lead to even greater destruction. we can't sit around and wait for things to get better. we have to act. the european union must continue to help people not only in europe but also in third countries, and at the same time prevent future crises. in concrete terms, the union must support the implementation of reforms and social change. that is why i voted in favour of this important report.
in writing. - the demographic challenges facing europe are growing. the creation of common union guidelines requires that we have reliable and comparable statistics from all member states. without reliable statistics, we cannot respond to the challenges posed by, for example, an ageing population and falling birth rates, which threaten europe's competitiveness - and, worst of all, the very existence of europe! we must also be able to convince the public that our policy is based on high-quality and reliable information and not on the lobbyist's coloured lobbying. that is why i, mr president, supported this report.
mr president, i warmly welcome croatia to our common union. the european union clearly still has a mandate and its membership is seen as a positive and desirable objective by our neighbours. that's good. i personally believe that the eu can redeem the idea of a great peace precisely by ensuring a future of peace in the balkans. i am pleased that croatia also had to show concrete results, which led to its acceptance as a member of the union. the process of qualifying for membership and creating a functioning market economy was certainly a challenge for croatia. in any case, eu membership entails many different rights and obligations, both for croatia and its citizens. membership of the eu also means responsibility; work must be done and continued. the community, like the european union, is never finished, but evolves and changes its shape. let's do it together!
mr president, the eu accession negotiations with turkey, which began in 2005, have been a real rollercoaster. the relationship between turkey and the eu has become a bit like an old married couple: it is difficult to be together, but it is also difficult to decide to separate. but we've avoided divorce, and that's a good thing. the eu and turkey are economically interdependent. the eu is turkey's largest trading partner and turkey is the eu's sixth largest trading partner. now that turkey has seen a new shift in its relations with the eu, it must be acknowledged and acknowledged. the country has also succeeded in implementing a participatory and democratic constitutional reform process. the latest information on öcalan's message to the kurdish workers' party that the arms are being lowered is also important. this is a positive thing, and now we need implementation, in which all parties have a role to play. enlargement is the eu's greatest success story. it requires that this process yields reciprocal progress for both parties. we need to keep all the gates open. i'm sure turk has some vision.
mr. president, there's been a communication problem. the european union is committed to the european future of all the countries of the western balkans, and this is an important point. the eu accession negotiations with montenegro are about to complete a year, and a great deal of good progress has indeed been made in the course of the year. montenegro can only be congratulated on this. montenegro has been at the forefront of structural reforms in the western balkans and has succeeded in its economic policies despite the european economic crisis. if this speaks for itself, it's the effort and the will. the fight against unemployment, the creation of new jobs and the improvement of competitiveness are of course the priorities of montenegro, but they are also the priorities of the european union. montenegro can be regarded in all respects as a true model among the eu candidates and has succeeded in establishing excellent relations and improving relations with its western neighbours also in this process of union. this is precisely the kind of eu enlargement policy that is at its best.
in writing. - serbia's eu membership rights cannot be discussed without reference to its racist relationship with kosovo. the improvement in relations between serbia and kosovo was foreseen as early as the beginning of the year as an important leap forward for serbia's eu membership. however, negotiations between the two countries broke down in early april. i can understand the distress of catherine ashton, the head of the foreign office, as the impasse continues. the eu-serbia negotiations have been aimed at winning on two fronts: more autonomy for the serb minority in kosovo and continuation of the eu negotiations. the pace of serbia's eu accession negotiations is up to serbia itself. however, it must be remembered that serbia is the economic engine of the balkan region. leaving it on the eu train could have fatal consequences for the development of the whole region. the eu's policy of absolutism could, in the worst case, lead to the extinction of serbia's european flame. we can't afford this.
in writing. − the progress of kosovo's eu membership process is linked to its relations with serbia. it is regrettable that the bilateral negotiations between the two countries broke down at the beginning of april. good neighbourly relations are one of the fundamental conditions for membership of the european union. even if the eu accession negotiations were to continue, the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo is still to come. how long can we afford to kick cans on the road ahead? good neighbourly relations are also a vital condition for stability and security in the western balkans. the european union is committed to defending the sustainability of the multiethnic and multi-religious states of the western balkans. it is based on democratic values, tolerance and multiculturalism. regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are key conditions for a country wishing to join the eu. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime. the problems affecting the daily lives of citizens must be resolved.
mr president, the city of strasbourg has arranged the last transport out of strasbourg for 4 p.m. and i do not think we should drag on this conversation just because not too many people have asked for the floor. may i suggest that we keep up the pace and have the vote as early as possible?
mr president, independent human rights reports from 2012 show that the vietnamese government systematically suppresses freedom of expression, represents freedom of association and peaceful assembly, and persecutes those who criticize the government, expose its shortcomings and support democracy. police harassment and threats against activists and their families, activists imprisoned for long periods without access to legal counsel or family visits, and beaten and tortured, and at least 15 people have died in custody. in particular, the censorship of the internet and the persecution of bloggers have become commonplace. parliament called on the government to put an immediate end to the violations of freedom of expression and freedom of expression, to release detained and imprisoned human rights activists and to end the violence, harassment and intimidation of their families. they must also reform legislation, in particular by removing the restrictive clauses in the law and guaranteeing the implementation of human rights and religious freedom in the country.
mr president, the deteriorating situation of freedom of expression in vietnam must be highlighted. the three well-known journalists who have been sentenced to several years in prison are particularly alarming. the sin of journalists is blogging on chat rooms. from the point of view of europe, the problem is completely absurd. we are living in a revolution of free speech online, and i firmly believe that free speech online is the winner. international human rights obligations apply to free speech in the streets, in cafes, in the squares and in the markets, and also to blogs on the internet. social media is here to stay, and it's an extension of the social conversation. citizen activism is still finding its own form on the internet. in authoritarian states, online social media is often the only form of expression for citizens.
in writing. mr president, vietnam has taken significant steps in the form of economic reforms and now, in its bid for a seat on the un human rights council, it should position itself, for example, on improving human rights practices. however, peaceful demonstrations have been disrupted and protesters have been jailed in trials that failed to meet the minimum international criteria. since last september, the ministry of security has been blocking blogs and websites that are not officially approved and punishing their authors. in january, 14 pro-democracy activists were sentenced to 100 years in prison. among them were also several bloggers from a christian perspective. all told, there are hundreds of people in vietnamese prisons who are being sentenced for their religion and opinions. religious groups must be registered and licensed, which is monitored separately by government-appointed committees. for example, authorities have prevented catholic priests from holding masses in the homes of individual catholics. at least 18 members of the buddhist spiritual community are now facing trial, and several protestants have already been imprisoned on charges of "undermining national unity". freedom of expression is a universal human right and a fundamental element in development and the realization of a meaningful and dignified life. restrictions on freedom of expression have far-reaching consequences and should therefore be restricted only in accordance with the definitions of international law: under strict conditions and only in exceptional circumstances.
the author. - mr president, commissioner, the european parliament has on several occasions raised the human rights situation in kazakhstan. in november 2012, we discussed recommendations for an eu-kazakhstan cooperation agreement, and included a strong human rights clause. as franziska keller said here, economic interests must not override human rights. president schulz has been in contact with the foreign ministry of the country because our colleague paul murphy has already been denied a visa twice without any justification. these remarks on the human rights situation have indeed been justified, as the situation has worsened worryingly since the violent contacts in december 2011. at that time, the regime attacked without justification, using disproportionate force against protesting and striking oil workers, killing at least 16 people and sentencing opposition leader vladimir kozlov to 7.5 years in prison. now freedom of assembly is tightly controlled, a strict law restricting the practice of religion has been put into effect, and attacks on journalists have been made. that is why we must continue this pressure on the kazakh government.
author. − mr president, last november in the context of our report on enhancing the eu-kazakhstan pca, we called on kazakhstan not to misuse the legitimate fight against extremism as an excuse to ban opposition activity and hinder freedom of expression. however, kazakhstan ignored our call and banned the opposition party alga! and quite a number of media outlets on charges of extremism. the silencing of free expression and critical views violates international and human rights and needs to be addressed immediately. it is good to hear that kazakhstan is taking the first steps to reform its criminal code. we urge kazakhstan once again to bring this into line with international law and to amend the problematic article inciting social discord. we continue to insist strongly that kazakhstan release all persons convicted on the basis of weak criminal charges, particularly vladimir kozlov and vadim kuramshin, and we repeat our call to the european union and the european external action service to play a more proactive role.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr commissioner, kazakhstan has a significant role to play in maintaining peace and stability in central asia, as well as in the economic development of the region as a whole. the eu and kazakhstan have indeed intensified cooperation in a number of sectors, the dialogue has been effective and the strengthening of economic and political cooperation is important for both. however, the human rights situation has slipped into a downward spiral and needs to be addressed. in december, the opposition party alga was banned as an extremist movement and the media that supported it was forced to shut down. human rights activists in kazakhstan have also reported being harassed. in 2001, right after its presidency of the osce, kazakhstan also passed a law that sets new requirements for the registration of religions and restricts missionary work and the import and distribution of spiritual literature. freedom of expression and religion is an essential criterion for a democratic state and also for the realisation of human rights. the government of kazakhstan is currently planning a new national human rights action plan for 2013-2020. it is important that it now reflect in concrete terms the commitments that kazakhstan itself made as the osce chair in 2010.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, kazakhstan is an increasingly important international partner in the region, and also for the eu. i especially note their support during the recent talks with iran, and also their proposal to establish an international fuel bank in kazakhstan. kazakhstan also has an ambition to act as mediator and facilitator in international security issues. however, the kazakh authorities need to respect the international commitments they have signed up to, including the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. kazakhstan’s political role in the region cannot grow when there is such discord with the international principles of transparency, human rights and the rule of law. we are very concerned by the detentions of opposition leaders, journalists and lawyers on the basis of trials which fall short of international standards. the charges against these people are very vague and could be considered to be politically motivated. we would like to call on the kazakh authorities to follow through with the enforcement of the existing human rights action plan, which draws on the recommendations of the venice commission, and to make use of eu technical assistance under the rule of law initiative.
the president of the republic of finland, mr sauli niinistö, who visited kazakhstan last week, criticised the human rights violations there in clear terms. social development in kazakhstan has declined over the past year. on freedom of expression, the kazakh government continues its policy of divide and rule, which continues to subjugate civil society. the eu-kazakhstan dialogue has so far been an important channel for raising human rights issues, but the functioning of the dialogue and the usefulness of its continuation should be seriously considered when the other party does not seem to take its international obligations seriously. the development of society and the free and active functioning of the various components of civil society are the primary tasks of a democratic state which seeks the welfare of its citizens. unfortunately, neither the united states nor the european union have succeeded in incorporating clear human rights objectives into their strategic trade partnerships with kazakhstan. the european union must not trade at any price, especially if the price is human rights.
for the alde group mr president, the boston terror attack was a heinous act, and we all condemn it. the defence of a democratic society requires respect for human rights. in the case of guantanamo, the united states is in clear violation of international law by maintaining this prison camp. the united states is acting contrary to its own values by holding people in detention without a promise of trial. as we have heard here, 86 prisoners have been ordered released, but they are still being held because there is nowhere for them to go. only a few prisoners have been promised a trial. the guantanamo prison camp has been one of the greatest embarrassments for the international community since its inception. when and if, and i hope soon, the united states decides to close this camp, i hope that the eu will support the united states in this action and will hasten this endeavour. the fact that some eu member states allow, have allowed, cia prison flights and secret prisons on their territory is equally disgraceful. the european states, the member states of the eu, the members of the council of europe must also look at themselves in the mirror. the so-called fight against terrorism has used means which are contrary to the values to which the western community, the european union and the united states are committed. we must not allow the mistakes that have been made to be repeated.
mr. speaker, the guantanamo bay detention camp is a thorn in the flesh for president barack obama. guantánamo is a flagrant example of the excesses and illegalities of international counterterrorism. we all remember how barack obama promised to close the guantanamo prison camp back in 2009. it is completely incomprehensible, unjust and a mockery of international law that guantanamo has been holding people for 11 years without any charges or trial. the continued indefinite detention is contrary to international law. unfortunately, human rights principles seem to have very little effect on u.s. domestic policy to close guantanamo. the situation in guantanamo should not be ignored, either, given the ongoing negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the eu and the us. the hunger strike in the prison camps is a cry for extreme emergency. those who go on hunger strike must not be punished and their health must be taken care of. the international red cross must also be allowed access to the prisoners.
mr president, commissioner, the media have been described as watchdogs of power, whose independence and freedom are the hallmarks of a democratic society. the restrictions on the freedom of the media and the independence of journalism therefore also affect the freedom of opinion and expression. the sign of a functioning civil society is that people have freedom of expression and the right to information. these rights should also be extended to modern media such as the internet, search engines and social media. in the eu, several national bodies in the member states monitor and report on media freedom. the european court of human rights has also laid down a positive obligation on member states to ensure media pluralism. similarly, the council of europe and osce have regularly reported on threats to media independence. freedom of the media is also one of the criteria we used in copenhagen to assess the readiness of the eu candidate countries to join the union.
the question of the blue card. mr president, i hope that the citizens of europe will hear the very cynical speech of mr farage, in which he clearly defended the british tax haven. do you really not see any good in the fact that the european council has put on the agenda a major justice issue of tax havens and tax evasion? you really don't see any good in this? are you that cynical?
mr president, the moment to act on tax havens is now. it is a question of our collective resources adding up to the collective deficits of all our member states; it is a question of services for our citizens; and it is a question of legitimacy for those who pay and for all our citizens. we need more europe in order to act, and we need more powers for the commission in order to be effective. this issue cannot be dealt with by the member states alone. however, we need the member states and we need them to act now. we have a very clear and easy list of tasks: the automatic exchange of information; making tax crimes an aspect of money laundering; creating a common corporate tax base in europe; introducing the principle of ‘publish what you pay’; reviewing the parent-subsidiary directive; dismantling tax privileges; introducing better administrative cooperation between member states and better eu regulation; having an eu-wide tax haven blacklist; dismantling public support and aid for the culprit companies; and revoking the banking licences of those banks that act aggressively in this regard. a lot of these things can be found in the commission’s work programme and in parliament’s report. we look now to the commission, to the member states and to the council, and i would say to them: ‘act now. you owe it to our citizens. you owe it to the people. please.’
mr president, tax havens offer escape routes from taxation, from responsible financial management and from criminal liability. this is the core business of tax havens. the eu also allows this to happen in a few of its own member states. the non-eu countries have been mentioned here, but it has not been mentioned that ireland, luxembourg and the city of london are also tax havens in a way. the eu therefore accepts that the eu or its territory enriches itself by weakening the ability of other member states to collect taxes and by weakening the ability to provide welfare services. tomorrow is the eu summit on this subject, but i think it is very sad that the heads of state are meeting for two or three hours to discuss this matter and energy. i feel like this is more about brand politics, image politics than actual intervention. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the question of the blue card. mr president, i agree with what mrs anneli jäätteenmäki said, but i also wonder about the cynical tone in her case. is it not a great thing that europe is now waking up to tax havens and tax evasion? as the president of the commission said, the member states have not shown any interest in this matter so far. now, the finnish government, and in particular the minister of finance, jutta urpilainen, have put this matter on the agenda. shouldn't we also give the european citizens a signal that something positive is happening?
answer to the blue card question. mr president, to my colleague, mrs liisa jaakonisjären, it is good that this matter is being raised. but i'm very disappointed that the principals are only meeting for a few hours. we all know that it is not possible to decide in two or three hours what action should be taken in this matter. for once, we need a long summit to really address this issue. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
mr president, while tax planning and tax competition must continue to be allowed in the eu, the very act of tax fraud must be tackled with vigour and crossborder cooperation must be used to combat it. the fight against tax havens must also be fought with a heavy hand and this must be one of the eu's key priorities. in particular, member states receiving financial assistance must be absolutely committed to combating tax fraud and tax evasion and to improving tax collection. in many cases, this could have had a significant preventive effect in the run-up to the crisis. however, tax efficiency should not be presented as an opportunity to inflate public expenditure, but rather as a possible reduction in the tax rate. this may also support tax incentives. however, cooperation at eu level in the fight against tax evasion and tax havens should not interfere with the tax rights of the national operator. we can agree on common guidelines and principles, but taxation must remain within the national sphere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest structural flaw in the eu is that tax decisions require unanimity. it's like letting a thief decide the criminal code. at least, it should be possible to determine the minimum levels of corporate, environmental and capital taxes in the normal legislative procedure. the cost of tax evasion, €1 trillion a year, is four times the combined aid packages for cyprus and greece, including the loans granted to them, more than the combined public debt of all eu countries. the tax-free travel of big corporations and the super-rich keeps higher taxes on ordinary people, increases income inequality and social problems. if the governments of the eu countries cannot stop tax evasion, it means that they do not want to do it. if governments are not happy with tax evasion, it means that they want the european welfare state to run the race.
i voted in favour of this important report. one of the eu's key problems is the decline of traditional industries. these old industrial areas are threatened not only by job losses but also by the impoverishment and social segregation of the regions caused by job losses. researchers say unemployment is contagious. unfortunately, those who become unemployed in areas where unemployment is often high are unemployed longer than those living in areas where unemployment is low. the deprivation of the regions will therefore be very costly for the member states, both economically and socially. we must also do everything we can to promote the vitality of these regions and the well-being of the people who live in them. i therefore warmly support the measures proposed in the report to promote the welfare of the regions, such as vocational retraining for the unemployed and the promotion of entrepreneurship to reform industry and diversify the economy.
mr president, first of all i should like to say that i voted in favour of this excellent report by mr bellet. it is very important that we in the european parliament pay attention to the exploration, exploitation and production of oil and gas on the high seas and, above all, to the fact that it can be carried out safely and that environmental risks can be avoided. as the report says and as the discussions here have shown, the example of the gulf of mexico a few years ago is worrying. we must work to prevent similar phenomena from occurring in the arctic regions, which are very vulnerable in terms of their ecosystems. it is also important to remember that it is not enough for the european union to work, we also need global cooperation. it is very important that russia should also be involved in this cooperation and that the united states and canada and the whole world should be involved in this cooperation. in this way we can ensure that the vulnerable regions and ecosystems of the arctic, which are under threat, are protected. the measures needed are, of course, to ensure that we can process the oil and gas produced there in a sustainable way.
i voted in favour of this important report, mr president, because pensions are the main source of income for older europeans. they are designed to guarantee pensioners a decent standard of living and economic independence. unfortunately, this beautiful idea is not being realized, especially for older women, as it is estimated that around 22% of women over 75 live below the eu poverty line. we simply cannot accept this! the pension policy is not just economic policy, it is an essential part of social policy. a well-managed pension policy gives us a great opportunity to combat old age poverty, to reduce income disparities and to promote equality. i am pleased that we have now adopted the report by mrs oomen-ruijten. but the need for reform must not stop there. the long-term economic recession is inevitably weakening the pensions of today's young, future pensioners. that is why we must ensure that today's young people are not the poor old people of tomorrow!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the question of the banking union is one of the most important decisions the european parliament will take during this period. many banks have become larger than smaller member states, and it is not always easy for david to monitor goliath so we must have a global perspective. the banking crises of recent years have also shown that we need a banking union. if we had even some of these features in place, we might also have avoided some of the problems or at least had them in a smaller form. a few more comments: firstly, we must ensure that the internal market works and that we do not build a wall between the member states that have the euro and those that do not. secondly, we must guarantee democratic legitimacy so that the people can accept this. there must therefore be parliamentary control, in which both the national parliaments and the european parliament have a role. thirdly, we know that regulation comes at a cost, so we must be careful not to regulate in a way that those who have done the best feel that they are regulated the hardest.
mr president, banking supervision is necessary and desirable. however, eu banking supervision is not just about supervision; it is the starting point for the eu banking union. the commission has promised to submit a proposal for a crisis management solution to the parties as soon as possible, but there are serious doubts as to whether it is compatible with the treaties. the banking supervision was originally intended to cover a total of 6 000 banks. but now it covers about 135 to 150 of the biggest banks. this is actually almost the same number as the number of failed eu stress tests. these banks have therefore already been subject to eu supervision. if the controls were to be strengthened and increased, it would have been reasonable to have also covered the german banks in difficulty, the landesbanks, if any. in addition, this should include the abolition of tax havens, otherwise banking supervision will not be effective.
in writing. it's easy to agree with my good colleague michael cashman. the commission should have updated its 2008 proposal after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. at the moment, the proposal does not meet the requirements of the lisbon treaty for a more open and transparent european union. on the contrary, the commission's proposal has been widely criticised as a step backwards. it is regrettable that parliament, the council and the commission have not been able to agree on an update of the eu's transparency regulation over the past five years. it is high time to implement at least the commission's technical proposal of march 2011. transparency is one of the basic conditions of democracy. citizens have the right to information and to influence, as do we, the decision-makers. and there is a lot of information available today, thanks to new technologies and social media. the pace of development is rapid, but the eu does not seem to be keeping up. i'd like to ask you why? what do the eu institutions have to hide from their citizens? why do the commission and the council not want to publish, for example, the opinions of the legal services? they take a position on important questions of principle, such as whether a particular matter falls within the competence of the eu or the member states. the court has also held that such opinions must be published if they concern a legislative document. in its conclusions, it states that 'openness ... contributes to a greater legitimacy of the institutions vis-à-vis the citizens and increases their confidence'. is there any better way to put it? i would like to hear the commission and the council's answers to these questions.
the question of the blue card. mr bloom, you said at the beginning of your speech that emu will fail if it is not accompanied by fiscal policy and stricter conditions to encourage cooperation. i am sure that this was the case, but should we not welcome the fact that the systems of economic policy coordination are now being set up and that more common european interests are being pursued? i think it's fair to say that we're on the right track. as regards the lack of democracy, it is not necessarily sensible to oppose national parliaments to the european parliament, but rather to strengthen both in order to create democracy.
mr president, it is precisely in order to ensure the sustainability of emu that it is important to create a social dimension to emu. i think this is an important step that we're taking. the economic and social dimension are no longer seen as opposites, but are understood to be closely interlinked. the competitiveness of europe depends precisely on the maintenance of the social model. the more citizens are excluded from the labour market, the more debt is accumulated, the more extremist movements are created and the credibility of the european union as a whole is therefore at stake. that is why i believe that the majority of the european parliament, like commissioner rehn, wants a stronger, more united, more democratic and more socially sustainable european union. i am looking forward with great anticipation and hope to see all the proposals that relate to the social dimension of emu in a very concrete way.
i voted in favour of this report, mr president, because we need to take stronger action against tax evasion and tax havens. the fight against tax havens and tax evasion must be undertaken by all member states and must be sufficiently effective. the commission's proposal for an eu system for exchanging information on taxation is a good start through transparency, mutual exchange of information would also work better. however, in addition to the exchange of information, we also need broader action to combat tax evasion in a more coherent way. tax evasion accounts for a large proportion of the eu budget and tackling tax evasion is therefore also important in responding to the european economic crisis. we need a europe with more jobs and less tax evasion. it is important to talk not only about international tax havens but also about european tax havens within the eu. the fact that not all member states are willing to remove these deficiencies from eu tax havens should be addressed.
mr president, when we talk about the application of the charter of fundamental rights in the czech republic, it is very important to remember that the european union is a community of values. i hope, at least, that the european union will also develop as a body of cooperation between independent states. it is clear that we must all agree on these fundamental values. what, then, are the basic values? they are democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law. you have to hold on to them tight. in this context, it is important to bear in mind that individual member states may have their own national interests. the european union must not be such a straitjacket that we cannot give it a little leeway. this is a very important matter. we will give a small national margin of manoeuvre to those countries that ask for it. when a margin is requested, the european union and the other member states shall decide whether to grant it. in this context, i see it as a good thing that the czech republic has this kind of freedom of movement. i believe that the european union must develop as a community of independent states, but the fundamental values, the hard core, must always be kept in mind.
i voted in favour of this important report. strengthening the rights and protection of victims within the union is an important objective. that is why i am glad that we have discussed this today. eu citizens can move and reside freely within the eu. they must be protected in every way, alongside their own citizens and regardless of where they live. this regulation covers all victims, so that they can receive the help and support they need not only in their own country but also in any eu region. for this reason, the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters is an absolutely positive thing. mutual recognition also builds trust and respect. i understand that there are of course different political and cultural traditions in the eu countries, but our common interest must be to encourage trust and respect. it involves protecting the victims and taking the necessary measures.
i voted in favour of this very important and timely report. it is of the utmost importance that the rights of victims are recognised and protected throughout the eu. when we have the internal market, the free movement of people across borders, it is obvious that this type of protection measures must extend to the whole of the internal market of the european union. it is also very important that we pay attention to this problem, which unfortunately has been growing in european societies. we must ensure that every human being has the opportunity for immunity and a good life. mutual recognition between states may therefore also encourage states whose legislation is not yet as far along as that of other member states to take action, for example, on the question of immunity. it is important to ensure that every person has the opportunity to live a good, safe and healthy life.
madam president, the decision that parliament has taken today is an extremely important step towards really coherent and solid banking supervision at european level. we are now fixing the flaws which we could see and which we debated in parliament when we made our decision about the european banking authority. it was seen that this kind of structure is not able to answer all the flaws and uncertainties on european banking supervision, so it is good that we are at last able to take these steps. it is important that all the banks are supervised and that there is strong commission supervision and powers there, and i think parliament has found a very good solution when it comes to improving decision-making and taking those non-euro area member states on board.
madam president, as we know, these two regulations are interlinked, and the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) did some excellent work in coordinating the content of these two proposals. this regulation gives powers to the european central bank to arrange concrete banking supervision at european level, laying the foundations for the next steps on the commission’s roadmap towards a european banking union. the parts of this roadmap are the single rule book, which has already been accepted here; the crisis resolution mechanism, which we voted on last monday in the econ committee; and the common deposit guarantee scheme proposal that we are still awaiting from the commission. hopefully we can get all the bases on the table and accepted so that we can look forward to a sounder financial system in europe that could provide financial services without such a great risk to our real economies.
in writing. - i voted to postpone the motion. the preliminary agreement reached in the trilogue is very welcome, but in the present situation, where the national parliaments have expressed the wish to be heard again on this matter, it is better to postpone the final decision-making for the time being. this is how we ensure that all parties have a voice. in view of the ongoing negotiations to improve the transparency and democracy of the european central bank, it is better for the whole to support a further delay in the decision.
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of this important report. i very much support the reform of product legislation as soon as possible, because effective product legislation is an essential part of effective consumer protection. pyrotechnic articles include fireworks, which are particularly popular among vulnerable children and young people. unfortunately, each year fireworks cause a number of eye injuries, which in the worst cases can lead to blindness. in addition, pyrotechnic articles include car airbags, which can prevent serious injuries to passengers in the event of a collision. it is therefore essential to promote high-quality and safe product design, to ensure that importers comply with product safety legislation and to remove dangerous products from the market. the economic profits of firms designing, importing and selling pyrotechnic products must not be allowed to take precedence over the health and safety of citizens!
mr president, audiovisual media services are an important part of our arsenal. we form our world view largely from information conveyed by the media. it is therefore important that the commonly agreed rules of the game are respected. it is worrying that the implementation of the directive has been problematic in several member states. the commission has also failed in its monitoring role. the report by mr boris contains many important points as regards the scope of the directive. one important question is related to media literacy. the media are constantly changing, and with them, the way we use different media. it is becoming increasingly difficult for the average citizen to distinguish between different media and their content sources, to critically evaluate the information provided by the media and to make informed choices. it is the responsibility of the member states to introduce different media skills and programmes in their education systems. that is why i supported this report.
mr president, mr commissioner, the conflict in syria has gone from a civil war to a crisis that threatens the security and stability of the entire middle east. at the same time, as the front lines become increasingly unclear, the need for humanitarian aid is exploding. the opposition to the assad regime has moved from a position of opposition to a situation where armed groups, terrorist groups and some 600 young people recruited from europe are fighting in the region and are at risk of radicalisation. i do not think that the area needs any more weapons, but the people urgently need help and a political solution. we have to make it happen. as has been said here before, russia definitely holds the key to the solution. we must also put pressure on russia in this role as an international community, as the eu. neighboring countries have done their best to help hundreds of thousands of refugees. jordan and turkey, among others, need help to cope with this situation. the jordanian ambassador, when he visited our group, said that in the long run the situation is also unsustainable for them and their internal security. to understand the deterioration of the security situation in the region, you have to see the whole picture. the iranian-funded and backed hezbollah organization is sending more and more troops to support assad and carry out genocide in syria. the council has raised the issue of adding the armed wing of hezbollah to the eu terrorist list and i would have asked the commissioner how the preparation of this decision is proceeding.
mr president, the situation in syria has deteriorated to a serious emergency. the number of internal and external refugees has increased, and the majority of them are women and children. neighbouring turkey, lebanon and jordan are under the heaviest pressure. the car bombing in reyhanli, turkey, for example, shows that the conflict threatens to spread. jordan is estimated to receive some 70 000 new refugees a month. it's not just about providing humanitarian aid. among the refugees are young people and children traumatized by the war. they've had their education cut short, they've lost family members, and they need help with their trauma. the international community cannot simply shift all the blame onto syria's neighbours. the resolution focuses not only on humanitarian issues but also on political action, as the crisis threatens to spread within the eu. such policy actions would include, inter alia, arms embargoes, safe havens and humanitarian corridors within syria, compliance with the principle of the responsibility to protect and interpretations of the international criminal court.
mr president, in times of economic crisis it is important that the so-called unjust resources be channelled into the common good, especially when the revolutions have not brought the economic, social and political progress that they were hoping for. the events of 2013 show that the stability of the countries is in a fragile state. however, one of the most important issues is the recovery of funds corrupted by dictatorships. the leaders of tunisia, egypt and libya were in power for decades and they managed to raise funds for american and european bank accounts through corruption, bribery and nepotism. international players contributed to the activities. now that the leaders have been ousted, the people are demanding back vast sums of money illegally obtained, and the money is really needed. the message of our resolution is clear. the recovery of assets is a sensitive issue, but it sends a strong message to those involved in corruption against impunity and hopefully also to prevent future cases. the resolution calls for the eu to demonstrate in concrete and genuine terms its commitment to improving the economic situation of the countries of the southern mediterranean. some governments have already restored considerable property to former dictators, but with little tangible result. the eu's instruments can only help in this process, the real responsibility lies with national governments.
mr president, i believe that the idea of the gsp is the best foreign policy for the eu. the eu is selfless in giving preferential tariff treatment to developing countries. in the acp delegation, i have found this to be a very good incentive. in particular, the 'everything but arms' initiative is one of the most innovative eu policy actions. the return of benefits is a great opportunity and recognition for burma. however, forced labour is not the only problem in burma/myanmar, nor is corporate responsibility the only solution. there is a very serious political crisis going on in the country, particularly in rakhine and kachin states. we can't let this situation be forgotten by other advances. according to the un, at least 140,000 people, most of them muslims, have been forced to flee their homes and muslim villages have been burned. the real number is certainly much higher, as so-called rohingya muslims are often not registered as internal refugees because they are not considered citizens of the country. the problem is much more systemic than the refugee crisis, with muslims being denied access to schools in rakhine state and being denied travel to other parts of the country. however, the situation of internally displaced persons must be improved immediately. human rights reports say muslims have been forced into makeshift camps in the worst cyclone zones along the coast. everyone understands the purpose of the project. the may cyclone has shown that the risk is real. health care is also a big problem in the camps, and this month, diarrhea has claimed many children's lives, and there are no clinics for those who give birth. i hope that the eu will honour its promises to burma/myanmar and take real action to resolve the rakhine crisis and ensure that ethnic crimes are properly investigated. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to include a political message in the commission's gsp decision.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for its strong position and i believe it will have an impact. the second important point is that we support the trade union movement in the world which defends and has the right to defend the rights of workers. this is a very important matter. publicity is also important, as is this debate, so that these matters can be really monitored. i also feel this is a woman's issue. if a similar accident happens in a mine, it will receive far more publicity than the fact that over 1 100 women are affected. mothers are dead and this has to be seen as a women's issue and a consumer issue, because consumers also have a responsibility. i wish we knew even more about the companies that operate in these sweatshops.
mr president, the death of over a thousand people in bangladesh is a tragedy. the main responsibility for this is, of course, the bangladeshi authorities and the owner of this building. but the european union also has a responsibility. the european union checks products imported from outside the eu very closely. let's make sure they're safe and not harmful to eu citizens. however, it does not control the way in which european companies or their subcontractors operate in these developing countries. i think the eu must do something to ensure that not only product safety is guaranteed, but also the conditions of workers when it comes to european companies or their subcontractors. it's time to act!
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the welfare of animals is protected under the lisbon treaty, and we are taking very slow steps towards implementing it in all the eu policies and regulations. the regulation that we have is definitely a step in the right direction with regard to companion animals. so far, we have not had legislation on the welfare protection of companion animals in the european union, and i hope the commission will come forward on these issues too in the future. while i strongly support this legislation and parliament’s position, and while i welcome wholeheartedly the commission’s announcement about this companion animal register, i really would urge the commission to come forward with this register proposal in this election period and to take very prompt action so that we can put these plans in motion. this is really needed by pet owners and pets all over europe.
mr president, the non-reciprocal tariff preferences granted by the european union to developing countries enable these countries to obtain lower customs duties on products which they import for sale in our union. this is an ethically fair way of providing developing countries with a vital access to the eu market. as regards the gsp, the union's ethical trade policy has contributed to the growth of developing countries' economies. however, no preferential tariff treatment shall be granted or granted without merit. when a country seriously and systematically violates commonly agreed principles of human and workers' rights, benefits should be provisionally withdrawn. the eu has been withdrawing customs preferences from burma since 1997 because of its extensive use of forced labour. however, it has succeeded in taking significant steps to reform society and increase openness. there is every reason to give back to burma the customs privileges which are important for its economic development.
mr president, pet legislation in the eu is at a very interesting stage. in recent years, legislation has increasingly taken account of pet animals. millions of europeans travel with their beloved animal friends across europe. the amendment of the legislation now before us will make this transport of animals considerably easier. the easing of the vaccination requirements for young animals, for example, will surely be very much in the minds of many. similarly, many people who have taken pets to various competitions will surely sigh with relief when this legislation comes into force. the identification markings and the necessary certificates for pet animals will also be clarified and information on them improved. this is indeed a much needed legislative amendment, and i voted in favour of it.
mr president, this is an important and well-formulated resolution, which focuses on the essential. the syrian civil war began almost two years ago as a popular uprising against an unpopular regime. political competition has become a complex and multi-dimensional game, and even the un is at a loss to answer. prolonged political stalemate has resulted in an enormous amount of bloodshed, death, and suffering. the possibility for hundreds and thousands of people to flee their homes to neighbouring countries has saved lives, but refuge is not the same as freedom. quite the opposite. the refugee situation is catastrophic in many places. however, the situation of internally displaced persons is no better, as humanitarian aid is difficult to deliver on syrian soil. how much time can we waste? high-level contacts, immediate crisis assistance and increased humanitarian aid are the most concrete eu actions for which we have the capacity and the competence. there's no time to lose!
author. − mr president, i agree with the previous speakers that we should discuss it now, because we are here now and there is the guantánamo item on the agenda. i respect your view that we should discuss this later, but we have now discussed it and so should not waste any more time.
the author. - mr president, i am very pleased that my colleagues supported me in bringing the death penalty in india to the agenda of the european parliament. the eu has been a key player in the fight against the death penalty. in the resolution i hope that the european union will continue to put pressure on india to introduce a permanent ban on the death penalty in this multifaceted democracy. mohammad afzal guru was accused of providing logistical support for the 2002 attack on the parliament of india and was executed in february. the process did not meet international standards of fair trial and the guru was not given the opportunity to appeal for clemency. it's also possible that the convict was innocent. the individual case of guru is part of a wider trend, as india has reinstated the death penalty after the country ended its informal eight-year ban on it in november 2012. furthermore, the guru case was conducted in secret, the family was not informed of the date of the verdict, although according to previous practice, the date was published. i would like to say that i am particularly pleased that this is perhaps the first time in a long time that the kashmir peace process has been mentioned in a european parliament resolution.
mr president, this resolution is particularly important because there are currently over 20 000 people on death row awaiting execution in prisons around the world. the death penalty is a cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment. it violates and violates the right to life; it is an irrevocable act. the information on the uncertainties in the trial of afzal guru raises particular doubts about the execution of the death penalty. every accused person shall be guaranteed the right to a fair trial and to an effective remedy. the member states of the european union are all committed to the permanent abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances. the death penalty is contrary to the values of the union. the eu member states are also committed to the european charter of fundamental rights, which states that 'no one shall be condemned to death or executed'. this unambiguous rule governs the union's own foreign policy. in addition to the european external action service and the eu delegation in india, each member state also raises the issue of abolition of the death penalty in its bilateral dialogues with india.
mr president, as the european parliament we want to defend the right of every person to a fair trial and on the other hand, at least most of us are categorically opposed to the death penalty. in the case of afzal guru, we do not accept the acts of which he was accused, that is, aiding and abetting terrorism, but the death penalty is always a wrong verdict. it is a flagrant violation of the fundamental human right of every human being, namely the right to life. afzal ghuur's hanging is also feared to have repercussions on the kashmir and indian peace process. hanging fuels anti-indian thoughts, increases hopelessness and further willingness to participate in violent acts. india has been reluctant to execute death sentences in recent years and therefore these two cases in the space of a few months should be brought to the fore. after nearly eight years of moratorium. this raises concerns about the backsliding of human rights in india.
the author. - mr president, the case of victoire ingabier is important from both a political and a legal point of view. after returning to her homeland from 16 years in exile, ingabire was threatened and harassed for running for president. his eight-year sentence for complicity in the 1994 genocide calls into question the independence and impartiality of the rwandan judiciary. the trial became a farce, with fabricated and ever-changing charges and no evidence. political motives guided justice and the rwandan judiciary. rwanda is not ready for a multi-party system of democracy and pluralism. unfortunately, this slows down the progress of society, its recovery, and its ability to overcome the pain points of the country's history. i wonder why the international media has barely covered the case at all.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, rwanda's journey from the bloody civil war and genocide has been a difficult one. since taking power, the rwandan patriotic front has arbitrarily arrested, imprisoned and harassed political opponents, journalists and human rights defenders. the explanation is that discipline is necessary to prevent violence. unfortunately, this activity has taken advantage of the so-called genocide laws, the broad formulation of which the eu has expressed concern about as far back as 2004 and has called on the government to open up the political field and allow different views and perspectives. ingabire has been one of the most prominent opposition figures and has worked to promote national reconciliation and dialogue and to end the cycle of violence. for these merits, he was one of the nominees for the sakharov prize in 2012. his eight-year prison sentence is based on testimony obtained under torture in military camps, according to amnesty international. we therefore call on the rwandan government to lift his conviction.
mr president, democracy is based on allowing political pluralism, allowing the opposition to function, allowing the media and the judiciary to be independent, and respecting human rights such as freedom of assembly. the case of victoire ingabiré raises concerns that political pluralism is not tolerated in rwanda, despite the country's repeated commitments to it. ngos have expressed deep concern about the weaknesses in the ingabere trial. they say the political motives are obvious. the harassment and arrests of opposition representatives, activists and journalists for criticising the government and expressing their opinions must always be condemned. the independent judiciary of rwanda must be respected. however, i would point out that in the context of eu-rwanda cooperation, rwanda has also committed itself to the cotonou agreement and the eu has already raised its concerns in this context with regard to the implementation of human rights and due process. we therefore call on rwanda to re-examine the charges against mr ingabire and to ensure that he is given a fair trial in accordance with international standards.
mr president, the report now before us, which parliament will adopt tomorrow, covers a wide range of measures to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. this is now something that the member states have to implement, and i hope that the summit will also take up these matters and make progress on this. tax abuse must be taken seriously. the question is whether the member states of the european union will be able to provide welfare services and whether the eu will retain any credibility if it acts a second time in the same way as at the last summit, where nothing was actually done about it. the eu must also take a leading role in international fora, but it cannot do so unless it first takes this seriously within its own ranks and tackles organised crime, money laundering and related crimes and abuses.
mr president, ms morin-chartier has done an excellent job on this difficult and technical file. the directive was almost completely redrafted. the risks relating to emf are now eliminated or reduced – not the electromagnetic fields themselves – and in many other points the text has become more exact. the lists of equipment have been deleted from the annexes, since they would not have taken into account technical and technological developments. article 8 on health surveillance was completely redrafted. it is right and proper that appropriate health surveillance should be carried out according to national law and/or practice. also, the method of dealing with nonsinusoidal emfs has been corrected by rewriting the annexes. the major shortcomings have been corrected and the resulting directive is now technically sound and logical, for which i thank ms morin-chartier and her team and also the other shadows who have been working on this. once again, thank you for making this directive understandable and good and solid.
mr president, commissioner, social investment is essential to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. when we launched the europe 2020 targets a few years ago, including reducing school leaving to below 10%, raising the employment rate target to 75% and reducing poverty by 20 million people, we barely discussed what long-term investments member states need to make to achieve these targets. for example, raising the employment rate, especially for women, is not possible without investments in day-care facilities, kindergartens and day-care centres in the member states and the provision of various possibilities for combining work and family life. the debate is somewhat disturbed by the fact that, as has been said in the question, some of these social investments are to be financed by borrowing. i believe that we have enough debt in the eu at the moment without also having to start making social investments with the help of loan finance. i believe that social investment is such that each member state must, in all circumstances, try to make it a priority that the bulk of its tax revenue collected from citizens is spent in the budget on education, health and social investment. if a member state does not understand that these should form the bulk of the budgetary structure, then i think it is pointless to go out and make up for them with common debts. priorities must be set to enable these social investments to be made and thus to improve the quality of life of the people.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, and also the shadow rapporteurs, who have done an excellent job with the commission and the council on this regulation. we are not creating new legislation on industrial property rights, but we are improving the capacity of the authorities to act, and as has been pointed out here, european industry is very vulnerable to counterfeiting and hundreds of millions of euros are lost every year because of pirated products. the rights and health of consumers are also protected by this regulation. the trade in counterfeit goods is part of organized crime and money laundering. today we have discussed the excellent report by mr iacolino on organized crime, corruption and money laundering. i believe that many consumers who buy pirated goods that they consider cheap would think twice when they realise that these purchases are specifically supporting organised crime.
mr president, in the committee on employment and social affairs we wanted to draw attention to the importance of social housing production, especially in these conditions of crisis, by means of this initiative. the rapporteur has done a good job, perhaps in some details our group felt that perhaps such far-reaching regulation would not necessarily have been needed, or had to be put forward. however, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, member states play a key role in the decision-making on social housing production. certain issues clearly have an eu dimension. the report calls, inter alia, on the commission to amend in 2011 the criteria contained in the state aid package for economic services of general interest, according to which derogations from state aid in the social housing sector are only allowed for the most vulnerable groups of the population. the report also proposes that the structural and cohesion funds should be used to invest in energy efficiency. and social housing production should be used to improve the housing situation of marginalised groups, which should be addressed in member states, for example in roma strategies.
in writing. 6% of the european population is homeless and 18% live in cramped conditions. one in ten citizens spends more than 40 percent of their monthly income on housing. the economic crisis has led to a deterioration in the standard of living and living conditions of europeans, which threatens to worsen as the recession continues. the economic crisis has become a social crisis, with human need at the forefront. social housing is an important tool to alleviate this need. at present, 25 million europeans are covered by social housing schemes, but the need would be even greater. the parliament's call for more speed in the construction of social housing is important and timely. the benefits are converging: an ageing population needs more affordable housing, a construction industry in recession needs contractors, and the tightening of environmental standards for buildings requires a renewed housing stock. in the future, more resources could be devoted to supporting social housing production, for example through the european structural funds.
mr president, it is very important that the establishment of a fund for the poor is guaranteed on 1 january 2014, and that is why i support this voluntary approach so that we do not jeopardise the continuation of all aid. it must be understood that there is at present a sufficient qualified minority in the council to block the whole project and that this voluntary approach is therefore the way forward in this matter. in many member states, food aid is distributed by parishes and various voluntary organizations, which have been raised by voluntary organizations. if this negotiation situation between the european parliament and the council becomes very difficult, we risk not having food aid to distribute on 1 january 2014. i therefore think it is important that the european parliament too should now show realism and the ability to seek compromise along the lines of the council. the commission has also proposed a sum of eur 2.5 billion, and if this aid is voluntary, then it is clear that the countries that join will have more money to spend on this aid. in that sense, the dispute between this 2.5 billion euro and the 3.5 billion euro would be resolved if we were to lean towards this voluntary approach. it is also important that the european parliament's position takes account of the fact that the member states themselves can decide whether to distribute food aid or, in addition, goods aid. i'm in favor of abstaining from this food aid.
i also voted in favour of this important report. engaging consumers in the single market is one of the most important factors for the future of the eu. we often say in this house that consumers are at the heart of the internal market, but in practice the consumer's point of view and needs are always left on the margins. the position of eu citizens is weakened by the large differences between member states in the level of awareness of consumers' rights and their ability to operate in the market. we must therefore strive in the future to communicate more and certainly more clearly to consumers about their rights. it is useless to talk about consumer policy and consumer consideration, and to draw up various directives and regulations if consumers do not know and do not understand their content! that is why i support the report's idea of improving the quality of information.
mr president, this report is an important step forward in the area of better consumer protection in europe, but it lacks many important elements. i would like to see the precautionary principle more clearly established as a guiding principle at the heart of european consumer policy in the future, a high level of which is also guaranteed by the treaties. at the same time, there should be better traceability of products, better protection of products and also the origin labelling of products, so that consumers have real opportunities to make choices between better and worse products. i would also like to see more resources for consumer information centres, whose task would be to help consumers, to disseminate information and also to guarantee rights and to inform all consumers.
mr president, when the regulation on novel foods is now stuck because of the poor legislative preparation of the commission, because it was unable to promote, together with parliament, a position in the council prohibiting the cloning of animals for food, we are forced to move forward with various gradual solutions to food safety and health issues when we are talking about the ever-growing number of new food products and food innovations. this is an important step towards protecting both newborns and young children from distorted marketing and from food contents that are either unnecessary or harmful to health. it is also important and a good step to tackle supplementary foods at the same time, whether they are for the elderly or for sports, so that the safety of consumers in this growing sector can be better guaranteed.
mr president, this is a good step towards reducing the risk of acute and short-term effects of electromagnetic fields on workers. as the committee has already stated in its own work, i would like to stress that the commission should now make the following proposal on the long-term effects of electromagnetic fields on workers and also on other citizens. we have a growing body of knowledge and research that particularly long-term exposure has adverse health effects and also cancer-promoting effects. europe should take active measures to protect its citizens and take this matter seriously.
mr president, the report and motion from this temporary committee support the same line that parliament has already taken in its report on tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. the same approach will be followed in the online gambling area, which will be brought to the plenary during the next part-session. we need an effective money laundering directive which should really include tax evasion and aggressive tax planning as money laundering offences, as well as illegal online gambling and the money laundering offences that go with it. we need effective action on this front, and the next point i would like to make is the binding registers of lobbyists in the eu, so that we can know who has been involved and influenced in any political decision-making.
i voted in favour of this report. although the right to live and work in another member state is one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu and mobility contributes to european cohesion and solidarity, the mobility of eu citizens, and especially women, is still low. women are often responsible for the family routine. one reason for the low mobility of women is the difficulty of reconciling work and family life. unfortunately, women who move to another member state in search of work often have to choose between supporting their family and staying with their family. in addition, women's careers are often disrupted if they decide to move with their partners from one country to another. we must be able to reverse this trend. european women are now more educated than ever before. they represent a huge potential for developing a more competitive and humane europe. i therefore warmly support all measures to promote the reconciliation of work and family life, which can help to promote the mobility of women.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission and the commissioner for bringing this important dossier to parliament. we are opening up regulation for better control of tax evasion, better control of corruption and for better protection for our companies that bear their responsibility in europe and globally, and so levelling out the competition situation, and these business opportunities also, in a fair and just way. this is an important step for consumers and for citizens to know how their businesses are acting. all the sectors were included in the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and in the future these reports should be audited to make companies liable for what they publish in their reports. so i am looking forward to the commission taking the next steps and broadening the review both so that it includes all sectors of business and industry, and so that it should be part of the audited reports.
mr president, the next summit will not solve the economic crisis or youth unemployment. i hope that the eu leaders will not give the public the impression that the matter is now settled and that these are the means. we must tell the citizens and young people the truth that the crisis is continuing and that it is possible - and i am very much afraid of this - that youth unemployment will only increase as a result. the eu can do something, but the most important thing is that the summit should also tell us what the responsibility of the member states is and what the responsibility of the eu is, so that we do not give the impression that this matter will be resolved at eu level and by taking a common picture. the eu should not be held responsible for matters which it simply cannot solve. small steps and a little help it can offer, but it will not solve this matter now.
in writing. − one of the core ideas of our union is to find solutions and action models to common challenges facing the member states. yet europe has lacked a unified approach to the reception of asylum seekers arriving in europe. in 2012 alone, some 330 000 asylum seekers were registered in the eu. it was therefore high time to vote on common rules for the processing of asylum applications and processing times and to agree on the rights of asylum seekers arriving in the union. although the sacred goal is to create a european system that would guarantee the same treatment of asylum seekers in all eu countries, the reality is still quite different. the new dublin rules state that an asylum seeker cannot be transferred or returned to an eu country where he or she could be subject to inhuman treatment. for finland, this could mean that a person who has appeared in finland but is awaiting a decision on asylum in greece cannot be returned to greece, but must wait for the decision on the proceedings in finland. this may raise difficult ethical questions. while we support european solidarity, we do not want to encourage asylum tourism. the starting point is and should be that the country is responsible for the asylum application through which the person has reached the eu.
in writing. - it was high time to have common minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in europe. one of the core ideas of our union is to find solutions and action models to common challenges facing the member states. in 2012 alone, some 330 000 asylum seekers were registered in the eu. the new, common european system guarantees equal treatment for asylum seekers in all eu countries. the eurodac database is a great innovation. the aim is to take fingerprints from asylum seekers, which will help to determine whether they have previously applied for asylum in another eu country. although the sacred goal is to create a european system that would guarantee the same treatment of asylum seekers in all eu countries, the reality is still quite different. the new dublin rules state that an asylum seeker cannot be transferred or returned to an eu country where he or she could be subject to inhuman treatment. this may raise difficult ethical questions. we do not want to encourage asylum tourism, although we support european solidarity. the starting point is and should be that the country is responsible for the asylum application through which the person has reached the eu.
in writing. − the principle of free movement has been neglected among member states for many years. the debate, in short, is rooted in the fact that some countries (france and denmark) have called for the current schengen agreement to be relaxed so that border checks could also be carried out at the internal borders of the eu in certain cases. the pretext has been the creation of an imaginary wave of refugees, or the blocking of the movement of criminals or roma. the reaction of my colleagues in the house to this initiative by the member states is understandably strong: the principle of free movement is sacred! the resolution voted in particular on whether schengen inspectors should also be allowed to make unannounced visits to eu internal border posts to prevent national authorities from carrying out illegal checks at internal borders. i should. the purpose of unannounced inspections is to prevent illegal checks at internal borders. free movement is one of the european union's founding principles and the ability to move within the eu without internal border controls is also considered by citizens to be one of the eu's greatest achievements.
mr president, in the last few weeks turkey has witnessed horror in many different forms. most alarmingly, systematic and excessive police violence, as well as broken promises, bribery and threats. four people have been killed, thousands are suffering from injuries, thousands more have been detained in questionable conditions, including the lawyers that stood up for the protestors yesterday. most of this is not reported in turkey because of downright censorship. we have witnessed signs of increasing authoritarianism and of shrinking space for civil society and those who have chosen a different lifestyle. our stance is as clear as that of the protestors. police aggression must be stopped and investigated, cultural and historic sites have to be preserved, arrested protestors must be released without charges, a dialogue and debate must take place for a healthy civil society and opposition, possibly with the help of the eeas. turkey has to comply with its international and european obligations.
mr president, the world is currently re-sharing power and opportunity. it is therefore very important that the european union should speak with one voice on foreign policy. it is therefore important that the eeas further intensifies its activities. you, lady ashton, have worked hard to achieve this and have achieved a historic foreign policy, but i dare to doubt that you have been a bit of a prisoner of this massive bureaucracy and have not been able to implement the policy you would have wanted. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i would also like to stress one point in particular: the foreign affairs council could also be brought closer to the people if we improved our response to emergencies and consular services. for example, when a finnish couple and an austrian man were kidnapped in yemen, it was at least unclear to me whether the foreign affairs ministry or the eu delegation had anything to do with their release or whether it remained a matter for the member states. but thank you for your active work and good reports!
i am glad, mr president, and it is important, that this parliament's resolution emphasizes the need for geographical balance in the development of the eu's external relations. this geographical balance and distribution of course means that all member states must be equally and fairly represented in this administration. unfortunately, the current situation is that the large and old member states dominate the external relations. 14% of the diplomats are french. i am sure they are good, but other member states have excellent diplomats. as lady ashton said, 18% comes from the 12 new member states, but the other side is that the 15 old member states come to 82%. this is not fair, and this is going to be corrected. this is a place of work, and this is where parliament expects to see a correction.
mr president, i am one of those members who believe that we need a stronger common foreign and security policy. the european external action service is a very important element in achieving this objective and in promoting the interests of our citizens worldwide. i found it very valuable that a colleague also reminded me that the persecution of christians must be brought to the fore. the foreign office is a hybrid institution, its effectiveness is certainly not easy to assess and we cannot wait three years for the moon to appear in the sky. however, it is clear that the eu's response to crises has been slower because of our heavy bureaucracy. there are too many levels of decision-making. the arab spring or the mali crisis are good examples of this. however, i am glad that the foreign affairs council has learned from the experience and that it has approached civil society in third countries as an institution. i am also very pleased to hear that the head of the turkish section of the foreign affairs ministry met with turkish youth organisations last week. we need a government that listens to people and responds to their needs. the accountability of the eeas vis-à-vis the european parliament therefore needs to be further improved. and that's the same statement i ended my speech with last year.
i must confess, mr president, that i am very angry that first lady ashton has left and now mr lambrinidis is also gone. are we talking to the walls, to each other? who's in charge? there is a certain complacency here, and the debate has indeed shown that there is an absolute need for a more in-depth analysis of what is really happening in europe. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in this matter. i would have asked mr lambrinidis if he knew of any country in europe where there has not been a concentration of media ownership, where in fact the protection of journalists' sources is suspected and where media owners wield more power than in the past. i can't think of any other country that looks like this. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. at the moment, for example, europe is negotiating pca agreements with kazakhstan, and at the same time dozens of journalists have been jailed, websites have been shut down and the free press has been suppressed. things are going bad. they're worse than we admit to ourselves. which is why i find this conversation a little too complacent. i agree with mr leichtfried on what we should do: more of a reality check and analysis of what is happening now.
mr president, there is probably no one-size-fits-all system of the relationship between religion and society in the world. the essential point, however, is that all citizens enjoy full freedom of opinion, conscience and religion in both public and private life. this is a fundamental right which the eu must protect here at home and also take care of in the world in its relations with third countries, whether in the field of trade or in its neighbourhood policy. religious freedom has always been seen as a protection for people of faith, not so much a protection for these religions. the right to believe anything does not mean that whatever one believes is right. freedom of opinion and thought and religion is absolute when it comes to beliefs, but limited when it comes to the behavior of people, because behavior always affects other people as well. in other words, the boundary between one person's rights and the rights of another person. sometimes these equal rights collide and therefore need to be mutually agreed. i do not think that diversity should be underestimated or that we should try to make life in public spaces odorless, tasteless or, as it were, devoid of value, but we must learn to live with the growing contradictions in our views on life and culture. and it doesn't mean that you should give up your values or your culture. on the contrary, there is much to be learned to make the world a better place for all of us, for all different kinds of people to live in.
mr president, last year the debate focused on the need for the instruments of the neighbourhood policy to respond better to the needs of the post-arab spring period and for the eu to intensify its policy in the southern mediterranean. the need for the eu to focus on supporting civil society was particularly stressed. this is how the so-called 'civil society facility' and the southern mediterranean special representative were born. these are very welcome. the impact of the arab spring has not always been desirable, and the situation of many human rights, in particular the rights of women and minorities, has deteriorated. i've seen this with my own eyes, for example, in egypt. we must therefore ensure that we respond appropriately, particularly in our own neighbourhood and in the applicant countries such as turkey. we must be honest with ourselves: sometimes the prospect of enlargement can really improve the human rights situation, sometimes logic is not enough for full democratization. civil society representatives have also said that the eu human rights reports do not reflect the real situation. the ngos consulted may not represent the general consensus. i hope that this will be taken into account in the future.
mr president, i would like to bring up a subject which has so far received very little attention. this is the climate agreement we expect to be concluded in paris in 2015 and to enter into force in 2020. my wish is, in fact, for the eu: i think we should consider how obsessively it is worthwhile to stay within the framework of the kyoto agreement. we should stop dismissing the united states as the anti-hero of climate policy. it's not, given the emissions reduction figures. europe invested in bureaucracy and regulation in climate policy, the us invested in research and development. we set emissions caps and we made very expensive climate policies, the us is betting on decarbonization of the economy and investments in technology. if we really want a global agreement, yes, the eu must change more than the us.
mr president, the trade and investment agreement between the united states and europe is worth pursuing and supporting. it is mutually beneficial, it creates jobs and growth. but in trade negotiations, the representatives of the european union should be careful and take the side of the european union's member states. the united states is certainly a party that looks after its own national interests, and the eu should not be blind, but rather be particularly careful about the details, because usually the problems are hidden in the small footnotes of the trade agreement.
mr president, exactly one year ago, i spoke in this very room about the situation in mali. i spoke then in particular of the need for dialogue, for all the actors to sit around the table. i was pleased to see that in early 2013 the interim government of mali created a 'national dialogue and reconciliation commission' to achieve this objective. but dialogue and peace negotiations are not just about instruments. continuous support is needed, so-called 'mediation support'. the eu has been investing in this in recent years and has created good structures to support the different transition processes. the foreign affairs council's peace mediation unit should be involved in supporting the peace negotiations in mali and, for example, in ensuring that all actors, including all armed and ethnic groups, and above all women and young people, are brought to the table and that their wishes and needs are taken into account both in the peace agreements and in the shaping of mali's future.
for the alde group mr president, afghanistan has a system created by the international community, which costs billions a year and which the afghans cannot sustain on their own for decades. what has eu money achieved? this is an important question. it is not known because the afghan administration is not sufficiently developed to be able to identify the eu's financial flows, but the eu cannot identify it either. afghanistan is one of the most corrupt countries in the world, and in the last three years, corruption has only increased there, not decreased. the alde group is calling on my leadership to call for the european court of auditors to draw up a report on the financial support given by the eu to afghanistan, its transparency and its results. i am glad that this has received support from other groups. the time for such a report is right now, as afghanistan and the eu are about to conclude a new cooperation agreement. of course, for money to have a clear impact, the eu must know what it is doing with it. it is also necessary that the citizens, the taxpayers who finance the eu, also want to know what they are getting for their money. for aid to be effective, the eu itself needs to know what is and is not working. and what doesn't go, that support form has to be terminated.
mr president, i voted in favour of mr cashman's report, but i would like to stress that i am concerned, as are many of my colleagues, that the acp countries have not agreed to include sexual orientation in article 8 (4), which lists the grounds on which discrimination is not permitted. homosexuality is still a crime in 39 acp countries, and in five of them it is punishable by death. the amendments to the treaty which have now been voted on must of course be accepted, but i hope that the next time the cotonou agreement is reviewed, this paragraph will finally be amended to reflect the fundamental human rights treaties.
i voted in favour of the report, mr president, but i would like to continue with my question on turkey from yesterday and explain why it is particularly important that this report has been adopted. as forms of expression have evolved, ordinary people are increasingly informing the political situation in countries. our concepts of freedom of speech and of the press must change at the same time. during the protests in turkey, young twitter users have been arrested and social media has been described as a new age fad. but it's a permanent part of the modern communications landscape. i hope that the eu will take this into account in its external and internal policies. our resolution makes it clear that governments themselves are responsible for guaranteeing freedom of the press and the media, but when we can help our partners, turkey is an example of a country which is an applicant country to the eu but whose media freedom has deteriorated in recent years. why haven't we dealt with this before? turkey is listed in the annex to resolution 154. libya, zimbabwe, the democratic republic of the congo and burma rank ahead of it.
i am very pleased with the report by mrs andrikienė and i voted in favour of it. the state of religious freedom in the world remains alarming, especially in the arab spring. as the european parliament, we have for several years been driving ambitious foreign policy instruments to promote freedom of religion or belief in the world. we are pleased that this has led to the process of developing guidelines on religious freedom. i also hope that the eu's financial instruments will provide funds, in particular, for organisations promoting inter-religious dialogue and for moderate civil movements. but we must be careful not to listen only to unacknowledged organizations. we need more creative ways of communicating, even between the most radical actors, and not just focusing on supporting the work of organisations like ours.
mr president, the un millennium development goals have fulfilled many of their promises. extreme poverty has been halved in line with the targets. half of those who had no access to clean drinking water at the beginning of the millennium have benefited from access. the number of girls in primary education is now on par with that of boys, and infant and maternal mortality rates have fallen. the target deadline is two effective working years to improve the outcome. at the same time, however, it must be noted that a huge number of people still suffer from poverty, hunger and inequality. a high-level panel appointed by the un secretary-general last week published its recommendations for a post-millennium reference framework. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december called for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. this new approach requires the eu to coordinate strongly between member states and to build a common and ambitious position. this will enable us to better emphasize the essential elements and principles which we have already noted in this report.
the author. - mr president, the european union and russia are partners and, in many respects, close partners and friends. that's why you can always talk openly and honestly between friends. at this moment, right now, it is legitimate to be really concerned about what is happening in russia: measures and legislation that restrict ngos and civil society as a whole. it is particularly astonishing that international organisations such as the friedrich ebert stiftung and the konrad adenauer foundation, which are in fact internationally renowned for their work in promoting democracy, are also the target of arbitrary measures by the authorities. the 'foreign agent' legislation which seeks to block the activities of these organisations is particularly puzzling. as this is clearly not in line with international standards, we condemn it. the eu-russia human rights consultations should be used more as a forum to discuss these issues in depth. the european council should approve the human rights issues of the european foreign ministers specifically concerning russia.
for the alde group mr president, first of all, i am pleased to be able to say a few words today on the rule of law in russia. i'm concerned about that development. i am also pleased that a high-level finnish delegation is here today to observe this session, and that it is also aware of the conditions in russia and the human rights violations that have taken place there. we are concerned above all that ngos should be able to operate freely there and that people - regardless of their sexual orientation, religious beliefs or any other considerations - should be able to enjoy full citizenship rights. the european union is a community of values and we in the european union must ensure that in the countries with which we cooperate and with which we trade, human rights are also respected in the full sense of the word. therefore, although russia is an important partner we should not ignore the violations that are taking place there. i believe that the european union and this parliament must send a clear message that human rights must be respected.
mr president, this discussion on the state of the rule of law in russia is very necessary because russia is a strategically important partner for us and therefore these issues must also be raised. european values must be protected, whether within europe, in the context of neighbourhood policy or between strategic partners. i would like to draw particular attention to the recent legislative developments in russia, where ngos have been forced to be labelled as foreign agents. or, in fact, the ngo itself can choose whether to label them as foreign agents or to register them in such a register of foreign agents. failure to register will result in a reasonable fine. several russian ngos have been targeted by this type of persecution. i hope that the protection of the free movement of civil society will be given special prominence.
as a member of the council of europe and the osce and as a ratifier of several un human rights conventions, russia has itself committed itself to protecting and promoting human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. however, numerous trials in recent years have raised concerns about the independence and impartiality of the russian judiciary. the magnitsky, khodorkovsky and politkovskaya cases mentioned in our resolution are just a few examples of the systematic failure of the state to protect its citizens in accordance with the rule of law. the eu-russia relationship is suffering from russia's lack of enthusiasm to respect and protect democratic values. however, russian civil society is the one that suffers the most. the treatment of both ngos and homosexuals raises concerns about discrimination. russia is an important partner for the eu. we hope that the presidents of the commission and the council and the eu high representative for foreign affairs, mrs ashton, will continue to raise these issues when they meet the russian leadership.
mr president, mr mammadov is an opposition politician who has long been critical of the government's restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly. he's been threatened before. now in february, he and journalist yaqublu were arrested in peaceful protests and faced trumped-up charges. the detention of mammadov and yaqublou has been extended for another two months and human rights watch has recommended that the azerbaijani government provide evidence in the case of mammadov and yaqublou expeditiously to rebut the allegations of political motivation in the arrests and detention. this is particularly important at a time when azerbaijan is indeed expected to hold the presidency of the council of europe. it is not possible for a country like this, which treats its opposition in this way, to be able to preside over the most important european human rights arena and forum.
mr president, azerbaijan has itself committed itself to a number of european and international human rights conventions. it is also due to assume the rotating presidency of the council of europe in 2014. however, the arrest of opposition leader ilgar mammadov reinforces concerns about the position of opposition representatives and activists. azerbaijan is holding presidential elections in october, and several recent arrests appear to be political. we therefore appeal to the azerbaijani authorities to release mammadov and to open a fair trial. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the un charter on the rights of persons with disabilities. harassment, harassment and arrests of journalists, activists and opposition representatives are in breach of fundamental rights. i therefore hope that the european external action service will take steps to continue to monitor the human rights situation in the country closely during the elections.
mr president, last february we discussed the situation of the rohingya muslims in burma. the background is that the rohingya have lived in burma for centuries, but the military junta stripped them of their citizenship in 1982, and the rohingya are not one of the 135 or so legally recognized ethnic minorities in the country. the latest flaw that is causing concern is that a law has been passed in rakhine state that limits the number of children that rohingya muslims are allowed to have to two. this is one of many violations of the fundamental and human rights of the rohingya muslims. although there have been some good developments in burma recently, the international community must not, under any circumstances, turn a blind eye to what has happened in recent times. but this development is still in its infancy, and we need the attention of the international community.
the report on vehicle registration documents, mr president, aims to promote the harmonization of registration documents and inspection procedures in the european union. i myself acted as negotiator for my group on this report by mr savisaar-toomast, and the size of the extract from the register was the subject of the greatest debate during the negotiations. finally, the committee rejected the proposal to reduce the document to a7 and i am the one who is behind this committee decision. now that the eu has just expanded to 28 countries, the task of unifying the documents of the member states into a single document is still under way. i do not think that the smallest possible document size is a good basis for harmonisation, since only two eu member states comply with it. secondly, i think it is important to monitor the impact of the legislative reform on electronic registers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied. at this stage, too, the sharing of information between member states must be based on voluntary principles, so that, if requested, it is possible to provide information, but the decision to provide information is taken by the authority of the country providing the information, not by the authority of the requesting country automatically receiving the information by pressing a button. in any case, the creation of interoperable electronic systems is a very good and worthwhile endeavour. it provides efficiency and speed in situations where information on the vehicle should be obtained as quickly as possible, for example, in cases of suspected criminal activity. and it is also a good achievement that parliament specifically wants to have more information on vehicle inspection in the registers. i would also like to mention in particular the report by mr kuhn and the very emotional request for a motorcycle inspection. i think it is a great thing that the committee did not accept the commission's view without a shred of evidence. the compulsory testing of motorcycles throughout europe cannot be based on such contradictory statistics as those presented to us. it's raising a lot of suspicion all over europe. it is good that this matter is being thoroughly investigated. i hope that this will also be kept in plenary.
mr president, the irish presidency which has just ended highlighted the importance of blue growth, i.e. the promotion of sustainable growth in the eu's maritime economy. i must say that there have been so many other difficult issues during this presidency that blue growth has been somewhat overlooked, but fortunately this excellent report by the rapporteur is precisely the one that brings blue growth to the fore in many ways. i would like to draw particular attention to this report, not only to the fisheries and aquaculture sector, which is perhaps the first to come to mind, but also to blue energy, which means the exploitation of offshore wind power and tidal and marine thermal energy. this is one of the future areas, as is blue biotechnology. i would like to mention briefly that shipping and shipbuilding are, in europe, a kind of sunset sector, because many countries worldwide, including south korea, are supporting their own shipbuilding industry in a way that has distorted the world market. the eu should pay attention to this in the wto, for example.
mr president, the history of cooperatives in the various member states of the european union is very different. the legal framework and tax treatment also vary from one country to another. the report therefore describes in a rather general way the possibilities of cooperatives in different countries, especially in the context of the economic crisis. the fact that the cooperative model differs in terms of profit distribution from, for example, the joint stock companies has created stability and resilience during the crisis, as many colleagues have said. it's a counterweight to the quarterly economy of the corporations. i would particularly like to highlight the employment and enterprise cooperatives, where unemployed people have been able to develop their own activities gradually to meet the needs of the participating entrepreneurs and also to develop their own business model as, among other things, the clientele has grown. the rapporteur rightly calls on the member states to draw up a regulatory framework to facilitate the transfer of a company to employees, for example in the event of bankruptcy.
mr president, the rapporteur makes it very clear that the bio-economy needs a clear strategy and a stable regulatory framework. at the moment it seems that the commission is making policy on agriculture, industry, energy and the environment almost without knowing about each other. the support measures in the various member states, for example for the production of bioenergy and industrial support for renewable energy, are also quite fragmented. however, the bioeconomy could be a worthwhile investment for the eu in the future, both in food security and in the energy industry. i would also like to draw attention to the concern expressed in this opinion by the committee on development and cooperation, namely that the bio-economy must not in future undermine the food security of developing countries, nor the use of agricultural land for purposes other than food production.
the question of the blue card. mr president, i agree with president verhofstadt on this spy scandal. what do you think of the idea that parliament should demand an apology from the united states? i'd like to make a quick apology. since it seems pretty clear now, why don't they apologize? if we demand an apology, they might react. what do you think of this?
mr president, i voted in favour of this excellent report by mr simpson. it is very important to emphasise the role of the port states. their task is to ensure that ships operating at sea are in good repair and that the relevant rules, the basic standards for maritime transport, are observed. it is in the interests of all, both workers and the environment, that such rules exist. these rules must also be binding, not only within the european union but globally. this is the way to ensure that all maritime traffic is under control. the big problem at the moment is that we have flag states like this, which then allow ships to enter the waters and workers to enter the market with lower standards and social dumping. it's fair to say that this is not in anyone's best interest. the european union agency for safety at sea also has an important role to play in ensuring that shipping traffic is properly managed. as i said, this simpson report is very good and very timely.
i think, mr president, that this savisaar-toomast report is very good and very timely. it is important to take care of road safety and to take care of it at european level. of course, each member state still has an important role to play in this, but we must remember that we must now look at the internal market in a broader perspective. for example, car sales cross national borders within the eu, and we need to know where those cars come from, how they are registered and so on, in order to avoid fraudulent fraud in that trade and to know that the information on the papers and the registration certificate is correct. this is a very good and very welcome report and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the size of the record was put to the vote again, even though the committee threw out the amendment. i think that the a7 format, the smallest of all, used by only two member states, was not a good basis for harmonisation. secondly, i think it is important to maintain the protection of citizens' privacy in the electronic database that will accompany the report. the exchange of information between member states should be carried out in such a way that, if requested, there is the capacity and technical possibility to exchange information, but the exchange should not be automated but should be a matter for the state to decide.
mr president, yes, road safety is an important issue throughout the european union. we have to make sure that the standards are uniform. movement is transnational and we must remember that the union is also a fairly large area in this respect, given the geographical differences. it is clear that each member state still has, and should have, the right to take care of its own road safety in principle, but certain minimum standards are needed. flexibility is needed, but not in all things. among other things, the condition of tyres is one of the issues that does not require flexibility. for example, when we have a cold winter in scandinavia, you have slippery slopes and so on. there are certain minimum requirements for what kind of tyres you want. we have had many accidents because of trucks coming from southern europe and others not complying with the minimum standards that have been set in the north. these have caused hazards and accidents there. it is therefore important to establish and maintain certain basic standards, minimum standards. road safety is a matter for the whole of europe.
mr president, the commission's proposal to make motorcycle testing compulsory in the eu was based from the outset on one argument: riding a motorcycle is much more dangerous than driving a car. this is true in the light of statistics, but that is where the consensus ended. in order to justify the testing of motorcycles, a statistic had to be selected which shows the proportion of technical faults in accidents as relatively high. that statistic was never agreed upon, and how could it have been? if the statistics produced by the inspection body claim a proportion of technical defects 25 times higher than other sources, i think that this matter should be thoroughly investigated before a motorcycle is required to be inspected. that is the view of the committee on transport, and that is what i voted for in this house. unfortunately, our neutral position was defeated in the crucial vote. i'm very sorry about this.
mr president, this is a document that is part of the european maritime strategy. it's very focused on renewable energy and offshore wind. i would have liked to have brought three things to the fore. firstly, the shipbuilding industry has been left out of the picture. but it would be a very important factor and a source of employment in europe. secondly, i would also like to emphasize cooperation between member states other than those of the european union. in the baltic sea region in particular, cooperation with russia is important. thirdly, i would have liked to see the fight against oil spills and what can be done, because it is a very important part of the maritime strategy.
mr president, i am personally concerned about many aspects of this new project. firstly, can it really be guaranteed that when certain member states want to introduce a european financial transaction tax, the tax will not really cause any disadvantages to the member states that are excluded? the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the tax system, and that the commission should be consulted on the future of the tax system. i understand the ideals behind the tax, which might work if the tax were to be used globally. however, i am realistic and i do not see why eu countries should rush to make their own situation more difficult voluntarily when a global financial transaction tax is still a very distant idea. overall, i think it is strange that the negative effects of the financial transaction tax are not being taken into account in countries that already have experience of it. in summary, i see the tax risks far outweigh the opportunities.
in writing. the european union has had a contingency system in place since 1988, but it has not always been able to respond adequately to risks. the system has been criticised for inefficiency and slowness, for example following the outbreak of ehec in the summer of 2011. the weaknesses in the flow of information led to food containing bacteria not being traced quickly enough and thus being withdrawn from the market. this spring the system was already working much more quickly on horse meat. however, the system needs to be continuously developed - as diseases do. antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria and new types of viruses pose a difficult-to-identify but real threat. the potential impact of epidemics can be anything from a local phenomenon to a global scourge, making it challenging to set preparedness measures at the right level. in the future, within the union, a health emergency may be identified even before the who warnings, which will speed up the introduction of a medicine, for example. in future, member states will also be required to develop more detailed and coordinated preparedness plans. precautions are not enough if your neighbor is spreading germs recklessly. we have to find solutions to common problems together. the precautionary principle must also be observed. we do not know what we do not know, and it is good to be humble in the face of this truth, without, however, painting grandiose images of threats.
the question of the blue card. mr president, it was very pleasing to hear the representative of the efd group express the wish that european leaders should speak together and that the european spirit should be born in europe, and you had high hopes for your country's presidency. i would like to ask you how your group will represent these objectives, how the european spirit will rise and how the european leaders will speak in the same direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency is a great challenge for a small country, but it is also a great opportunity. lithuania is a baltic sea country, as is my own country. we too seldom speak in this chamber about the fact that the baltic sea, which is almost an inland sea of the eu, is one of the most polluted seas in the world. its biggest problem is nitrogen and phosphorus oxidation. last year, researchers discovered a massive phosphorus leak off the coast of the baltic sea, from russia's kingisepp, a waste mountain of a fertilizer plant. they were able to close it for a fraction of the price. this year, two similar leaks were found in poland, also in the waste from fertiliser plants, gznf fosfory and zakady chemiczne. i hope that the lithuanian presidency will act decisively to stop these and other leaks polluting our baltic sea. i wish lithuania good luck, success and all the best for the presidency, which i look forward to.
the report by mrs ingeborg grässle should have been adopted. it should have been adopted in order to allow us to examine the functioning of the eu anti-fraud office and the proper use of its powers in the light of recent events. i fully understand that the independent status of the anti-fraud office must be safeguarded. but that is precisely why parliament should now have been bold enough to open the door to new negotiations on the role of the anti-fraud office. in any event, the events that led to the dismissal of commissioner dalli and the investigation into them cast a shadow over the agency, and that is damaging both for the anti-fraud office and for the european union as a whole. the anti-fraud office has been conducting illegal signals intelligence in brussels. and it is indeed a matter of reverence how this house can be poor in the things that america does, but not keep its own nest clean. i voted in favour of this report to avoid any unnecessary damage to the eu's reputation.
mr president, parliament has, as it were, adopted a climate policy position on the reduction of emission allowances from emissions trading, which is consistent with the broad climate policy line adopted by the eu in the last decade. in april this parliament rejected the commission's proposal to withdraw allowances from the market in order to artificially increase their price for industry. that result was not acceptable to the committee on the environment, which quite logically and understandably wants to continue on the chosen path. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations. why do we think that exporting industry and thus reducing employment and ultimately releasing the same greenhouse gas emissions outside europe would save the world? i voted against the commission's backloading idea, as i have done before. but this time it wasn't enough. good luck to europe on the path it has chosen.
mr president, a few words about the situation in greece and the closure of the greek national broadcaster. of course, it must be remembered that greece is a member of the european union and they are very much in charge of these matters. what is the eu's role? we must therefore act and see to it that european values can also be realized in greece and in its reforms. however, if i understand correctly, the commission has not called for the closure of ert, nor does the commission question the mandate of the greek government to lead the public sector. it can be said that this decision by the greek authorities must be seen as part of the necessary efforts being made in the country to restore and modernise the greek economy. we all know that the greek economy has had problems and therefore action must also be taken in the public sector. as regards the public service, it is true that public service broadcasters have been very important for independent media. they must do so, and in that respect the journalists have reason to hope that they can get back to work very quickly. i do not think that we should be debating here in the european parliament why ert was closed and whose fault it is, or blaming others here, or greek colleagues attacking each other. we know there are financial reasons behind it. we need to step up, we need to reform. we should now consider together how we can support this process at european union level, so that this new media, the new public radio, can be brought into operation quickly and thereby become independent. so in this regard, i would rather seek agreement and mediation than conflict.
madam president, closing a national broadcasting company is an act of political symbolism at a time when the people are suffering under austerity. many are hungry, the young are unemployed, and public sector reform which is supported by the eu should also consider the stability of society and be selective in its choices.
the question of the blue card. mr president, you said that this was hypocritical. i think this is a self-critical debate because i have just received a newspaper article from the citizens stating that 17 years ago the united states hacked into the european union's network. 17 years ago, and these things have been happening all the time. this is self-criticism in the face of the fact that the european union has been so weak that it has not been able to make a difference. what are you going to do now to strengthen the european union and to give effect to the fundamental rights of this type of citizen?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this is a very special situation. i would like to remind you that the eu has a common position on arms exports which is a unique agreement and political instrument that sets clear criteria for the eu’s arms trade. this year the un also approved the arms trade treaty. this is a positive trend. we need more transparency, more commitment and more progressive policy in this area. there are two resolutions ready to be voted on. one is drafted by the s&d, greens and gue/ngl groups – this resolution aims to improve the eu’s common position on issues such as corruption, transparency and consistency of appliance of the common criteria by member states. the other resolution, by the alde, epp and ecr groups, considers the common position good enough and is not driving it anywhere forward. paradoxically, it is a step backwards, contrary to the efforts of all the member states that signed the common position. i would like to underline especially that the epp/alde resolution is shameful on human rights. respect for human rights is the key added value of the common position and also the new dimension of the att. it is particularly important given the situation in the middle east and north africa where the eu’s arms exports are directed. the human rights aspects are totally absent in the epp/alde resolution. i can only conclude that the european parliament is today ideologically divided between defensive human rights and the concerns of the military industry. the vote tomorrow is going to show on which side you stand.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the commission in particular for the announcement last week that the commission intends to introduce open source software. the implementation of the digital single market indeed also requires a functioning payment market, in particular the completion of the sepa single european payment area. at the moment i am hearing worrying news from across europe that the pace of sepa implementation is not the same in different countries and that the february 2014 deadline is considered by some to be too early. i would have asked the commissioner if the commission had any information on whether that february 2014 deadline for sepa would be reached. how far has this sepa implementation progressed in the various countries? of course, i would also like to thank you for the fact that the e-invoice is now coming into the commission's proposals.
mr president, commissioner, the report by the committee raises a serious concern about the impact of the economic crisis on access to care for vulnerable groups. i think that the report could perhaps have stressed even more that a functioning social and health care system must be based on the principle of equal access to care for every citizen, the so-called principle of universalism, which is the basis of the nordic social security systems, among other things. the insurance-based system, based on the employment relationship and the social security rights derived from it, is a very, very vulnerable system in the context of the economic crisis, as we have seen in many countries. a universal system guaranteeing minimum benefits requires a sound public finances and a taxation system to support it. the current problems in many countries are rooted in a dysfunctional tax system, a lack of progress, a low tax rate and a lack of participation by many groups of people. these major structural reforms in the member states are therefore needed to build social and health systems on a sustainable basis in the future. i think it is shortsighted to oppose structural reforms, but reforms must be carried out with a reasonable defence of the position of the disadvantaged. what is invested in society and what is cut in return is always a question of value.
mr president, it can be said that the true measure of civilization in society is found in the way we care for our less fortunate neighbours. it can therefore be said that the european union or its member states are only as strong as their weakest link. in this respect, we have a huge social responsibility to ensure that our less privileged neighbours can also receive good services, despite the fact that we are currently living in a period of economic recession. the member states have the first role in this, of course, but we must also ensure that, when we are in the internal market, a common policy is being drawn up in the european union, that through some kind of exchange of best practice, through open coordination, we ensure that the conditions for survival can be met by all citizens of the european union and, above all, that every citizen of the european union has the opportunity to live a life of dignity and well-being.
the author. - mr president, it is quite true that the question of the european emergency number 112 is very topical and important. parliament took a decision on this on 5 july 2011 and it was therefore expected that it would be properly operated across europe, but this implementation has been delayed and of course this is the big question we have for the commission: why? however, the issue is of the utmost importance for the safety of eu citizens. in particular, in special situations, when disasters strike suddenly, we need a system that works, that is known and understood by the general public and therefore also guarantees rapid and reliable assistance. when help is needed, citizens must be able to trust that the system will also work and that it will be smooth. it can be said that many times in these situations, when this system is needed, the real issue is really at stake. people's health or even their lives are at stake. it must also be remembered that mobility is one of the big things in the european union today. we have freedom of movement, and that is why it is very important that these 112 services be developed. it is also important that eu citizens can access the service in at least a few languages. i know, as a finn, that when you try to get services here in france, for example, you usually cannot get them in any other language than french. it would be important, of course, that the people in those centres who are in the service of 112 should be able to speak at least english, german, french, these major european languages, and not that their language skills are also limited. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the number 112 be used as a reference number for the emergency services. at present, those studies show that surprisingly few, as few as half of the citizens of the european union, are aware of this service. i hope that the commission will then implement this matter quickly and also increase the level of information.
i voted in favour of this report. it is of course important that these emerging, developing democracies are supported, as is georgia. but as far as financial aid is concerned, i think we should remember that, in principle, as the old saying goes, you should not give a fish, you should teach it to fish. so we must try to create the conditions for them to build their own society there, not by getting them used to receiving some kind of passive help, which means that the european union will finance it. we have many examples of the european union. we have gone to fund countries, to give various grants, which have basically run out. it is therefore very important that we now, in this process, make sure that we help them to help themselves, that is, that we create the conditions. it is also important, of course, to ensure that, in cooperation with georgia, these basic issues which are important to the european union, human rights above all, can be developed and improved in that country. but as i said, the help has to be the kind of help that we're supporting.
i also voted in favour of this report. it is very important that we ensure that the information systems can be reliable and that these attacks can be prevented. these attacks on european and eu information systems have been in evidence recently. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information systems and the internet which it uses are secure. it is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure that the systems at european union level are functional and secure. it is therefore of the utmost importance to pay particular attention to all aspects of this vulnerable information system.
i voted in favour of this report. it is of course worth noting here that as citizens of the european union we have a particular concern, both at the level of the union and in the member states, that privacy can be protected. it is very important to ensure that such secret information and privacy-related information does not go through any kind of spying to other countries or authorities, to those to whom it does not belong. in this respect, it can be said that the conflict between the united states and the european union in recent days has brought this issue to the fore again. what, then, is really happening? we're waiting for the united states to come in and tell us if these messages that edward snowden is saying are true? is it true that the united states has been spying on the european union and its institutions? in any case, we must ensure that the privacy of citizens is protected and that there is no place for such spying in the european union.
mr president, i voted in favour of this important proposal. everyone's asking questions, but when it comes to an ally, it's a surprise. i hope that the eu sends a strong message that the privacy of its citizens is not something to be toyed with. the negotiations on the eu-us free trade agreement are due to start next week and i hope they will not be interrupted by this incident and the loss of confidence. things have to be worked out thoroughly between friends. the eu will be punishing itself most severely if it freezes negotiations on this important issue.
i voted in favour of the motion, but i am very concerned about the current eu position on arms exports. it is no secret that several of our member states are the world's largest arms producers, but it is very regrettable that the only step the eu has been able to take in relation to the syrian conflict has been to start exporting arms to the syrian rebels. some eu member states lobbied hard to get arms to the moderate forces in syria. but i think you should have done better with the background. the syrian opposition is already dominated by islamist and salafist elements, and most of the members of the syrian democratic movement have fled the country. the islamists are now executing the opposition's democratic wing as they await new weapons from europe. when and if arms are sent to syria, we must ensure that they actually go to the free syrian army and not to radical terrorist or islamist groups. that is why the principles of human rights and humanitarian law, which are also mentioned in this resolution, are the most important principles when it comes to arms exports.
mr president, i am pleased that this house is able to take a swift stand on the situation in egypt. it seems that the eu political circles are suffering from the fatigue of revolution and protest. but we must remain awake. the last few days have been the most significant in the entire post-revolution period in egypt, and last night's coup has once again transformed our neighborhood. there are roughly two types of people who are opposed to the crush. those who want to restore the old order, and those who want to re-manage the transition and return power to those who started the revolution. my sympathies are with the latter group. i was in egypt recently to discuss the affairs of the country, particularly from the point of view of minorities. the position of minorities and women has only deteriorated under the new so-called democratic government, and the problems of poverty and corruption have not improved. when i met with the leadership of the muslim brotherhood, they urged us europeans to take care of our own economic problems. however, egypt is bound by international human rights obligations. it is the most influential arab country, whose role as a regional mediator and balancer has suffered, and the space is opening up to other regional actors.
the author. - mr president, the situation in djibouti is obviously very challenging. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the union. we must remember that the fundamental task of the european union is to bring democracy, human rights and freedom of expression to the world. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the union. these are the values we must also take to those countries. it is clear that, in view of the situation in djibouti, and in the light of the development of democracy, there have been many arrests since the elections in february. it is true that there are major problems with human rights. women's rights are very weak there. and as it turns out, even the data that are serious tell of gang rapes of women and so on. we must, of course, act quickly. this is a challenging concept because in those countries with a predominantly islamic mindset and religion, rights, women's rights and democracy and human rights are seen in a different light. i therefore believe that when the european union is working in that region and when we go there to intensify our action, we must start from the grassroots. through education we may be able to bring about change, but as has been said, we must now create strong pressure, political pressure, to bring the situation in djibouti under control, to bring the human rights situation under control, to stop the violation of women's rights. after that, this kind of long-term, determined work on democracy is needed, but it does not come from sending money in the form of blank cheques or writing resolutions here, but from building civil society programmes which, through education, can gradually instill in people a new way of thinking, so that they understand what democracy means. what do human rights mean? and not the way that you want to be with those countries at the moment when you have these talks, they say, it's just a western concept that they don't want to accept. we have to get these valuables back there.
mr president, the situation of democracy in djibouti is bad. there is no independent media and journalists and human rights activists are constantly subjected to pressure and persecution if they criticize the government's line. opposition leaders and critics of the president are at risk of imprisonment, and it is estimated that there are currently some 600 political prisoners in the country. in particular, after the parliamentary elections in february, at least 90 more people were arrested and imprisoned in the country. djibouti receives a significant amount of development assistance from the eu. between 2008 and 2013, the amount of aid has been around eur 50 million. the eu should strive to ensure that, in the case of djibouti, as in the case of many other recipient countries, this assistance also guides the country's democratic and human rights development.
mr president, djibouti has played a key role in the fight against terrorism and piracy in the horn of africa. the country's opposition has this year, for the first time since independence, gained representation in parliament. however, since the same elections, the country has been plunged into a deep political crisis. the number of political prisoners has increased and prison conditions are a particular concern. because foreign journalists are not allowed in, it is sometimes difficult to get reliable information about what is happening in djibouti. however, the un has reported that last year 180,000 people were in need of food aid and that violence against women was widespread. widespread rape, mutilation, domestic violence, sexual harassment and child marriage have a long-term impact on the mental and physical well-being of women and, by extension, on society as a whole. djibouti is a member of the acp-eu cooperation and a signatory to the cotonou agreement, thus committing itself to respect human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
for the alde group mr president, the situation in nigeria is worrying in many ways. of course, in the european union, while we are concerned about human rights and democracy, we also want to support nigeria on this path. it is true that there is also a great deal of cooperation between nigeria and the european union. the european union has funded or been assisting nigeria, in the five years 2008-2013, with over eur 700 million, which is a very significant amount. it is clear that our immediate and most important interest is to see the development of democracy in nigeria begin. after all, nigeria is one of the world's largest oil producers. yet, it must be remembered that over 60 percent of the people live on less than a dollar a day. so it tells us that there is no fair distribution of income in that country either. it is therefore important to ensure that the principles of justice are upheld. the boko haram terrorist organization has emerged here. it is true that we must fight terrorism, that we must, as citizens of the european union, take very strong care through the european union to ensure that democracy can be strengthened, that human rights can be strengthened and that the position of the various minorities in that country can also be strengthened.
mr president, we have discussed nigeria on several occasions in the human rights debate here. in particular, attacks on christian villages and churches and brutal killings by the islamist terrorist group boko haram. over the past four years, more than 4,000 people have been killed in violence in nigeria. thousands of people have fled their homes to escape the fighting between security forces and boko haram militants. the government is in a difficult position in the fight against terrorism, but of course that does not justify the use of excessive force or the trampling of human rights. amnesty international has appealed to the nigerian authorities to suspend the execution of death sentences. the hanging of four prisoners in late june ended a moratorium that had been in place since 2006. nigeria needs reforms in the income distribution, among other things. it is one of the world's largest oil producers, yet the majority of the common people live in poverty. eu development assistance must aim to steer the country towards reform.
mr president, the commission has presented clarifications and amendments to the legislation on the use of biofuels. this is a good, well-reasoned presentation. however, here in parliament it has gone off the rails in so far as amendments to the use of wood-based biofuels have been tabled in committee. they must be used wisely, they create jobs and livelihoods, and in fact the biofuels sector is the only sector in europe that is growing, innovative and creating new jobs. if these restrictions, which have now been put forward in the committee on the environment, are accepted here in the plenary, it means that there will be no new investment in europe which could then use these wood-based biofuels. otherwise, i think this motion is right.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report. the european parliament has called for better protection of the rights of victims of crime, accused persons and suspects within the union. although the european union has harmonised practices and legislation in many policy areas, there is still a great deal of room for improvement in the area of criminal law. unfortunately, the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights are not uniformly applied in the eu member states. that is right, europe must strike a balance between freedom, justice and security. citizens must be able to rely on the respect of their rights and the guarantee of their safety when travelling and have the same guarantees in all member states. this directive is therefore an important step towards better protection, but it could have gone further. i think that the underprivileged and the minors should also have the right to a lawyer. unfortunately, that idea does not appear in this report.
i also voted in favour of this report. it is quite true that this is the kind of report and legislation we need at the moment. it is important to safeguard confidence in the financial markets and also to create fairness in the financial markets and the stock exchange. the first thing we have to do is to stop the insider trading. they are one big thing that is also affecting the confidence of the citizens in the markets and the stock exchange. in this respect, it is important to ensure that we have the appropriate legislation in this area as well, so that we can deal with such unpleasant manipulations. it is also important that it should include sanctions that will really bring fairness to both the financial market and the stock exchange. it is very good that this legislation has moved forward and i thank mr mccarthy for this in his report.
mr president, i have just voted in favour of this important report. energy is a necessary commodity for households and a crucial competitive factor for industry. affordable energy is a fundamental right, especially for low-income europeans, who are forced to pay much higher prices for their energy than higher-income households. i am very pleased that the eu is also promoting a functioning internal market in the energy sector. however, i hope that the eu will not be content with opening the internal energy market on paper, but that eu action will bring real freedom of choice to consumers and also as soon as possible. the opening up of the energy market also brings with it increased responsibilities for the various parties. in the context of market opening, we must ensure that consumers are properly protected and that they are informed of the different options in an appropriate, transparent and comprehensible manner. without the active participation of consumers, a functioning internal energy market and a fall in consumer energy prices will be nothing but a dream!
mr president, it is very important that we talk about youth unemployment. it is not just a matter for the european parliament, it is also a matter for the member states. it is clear that six million unemployed young people at the moment is far too many. we have to look at the whole picture at the same time. but at the same time we are talking about extending working hours. we must raise the retirement age, and what we are currently in dire need of is that we do not have enough jobs in europe. europe is not competitive enough. in order to meet the challenges we face today, one key issue is education, or investing heavily in education. of course, in many respects, education is still a matter for the member states, but we must now also give it greater prominence at european union level. it is worth noting in this context that the erasmus+ programme is one of the good steps taken by the european parliament and the union in this regard. we're going to have a lot more resources for education, for mobility, and that's a step forward. i'm a little concerned about some people offering custody. our young people do not need guardianship - this is especially true for representative dell in the green - but they need values, ideals, opportunities. we must strive to create these opportunities for young people in the labour market. it is primarily through education, but it is also through improving our competitiveness in europe, because otherwise we will not be able to cope in this global economy either. in this respect, the matter must be viewed as a whole and not as fragmented as it sometimes seems. either way, it's acute and needs to be dealt with.
mr president, commissioner, the increase in youth unemployment throughout the eu, but particularly in countries hit by the economic crisis, is alarming. in the field of employment and labour market policy, the member states have competence, although at eu level, country-specific recommendations have been issued in the framework of the european semester to reduce youth unemployment. similarly, funds have been allocated from the common budget to countries with the highest youth unemployment rates and the introduction of a youth guarantee in all member states has been recommended. the youth guarantee, which encourages access to employment, education or training, requires a well-functioning education system in the member state, a good labour market policy and a supportive social policy. i am afraid that in many member states, especially those in economic crisis, these systems are not in order and that structural reforms are needed and that these will take time to be carried out. i hope that the youth guarantee will not become a mere buzzword because the member states are unable to create a functioning system. in addition, the employment of young people and other disadvantaged groups is primarily affected by economic conditions. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european youth employment fund. we are in danger of losing more than just a young man's job opportunity. in the face of uncertainty about their professional future, young people are putting off starting a family and becoming parents, putting the future of europe at risk.
mr president, listening to this debate, it has occurred to me that young people are indeed the renewable energy that should be invested in. that renewable rainfall would really produce in the future. it is good that the eu is finally understanding the importance of youth. the crisis also led to cuts in most member states in programmes relating to education and lifelong learning. these are precisely the programmes which would have required additional funding. the poverty and exclusion of young people disturb the peace of society. healthy new generations are the benchmark for healthy societies. the eu's role is therefore vital, but the real responsibility lies with the member states. the quality framework for training mentioned in the resolution is particularly important. even before the economic crisis, a culture was established in which young people could be kept in a training cycle for years. the so-called good employers, that is, international organizations or companies, simply do not have to pay, for young people will take the jobs anyway. this doesn't make any sense. i am a little skeptical about the erasmus for all reforms.
the question of the blue card. mr president, president barroso wisely said in his speech that the european union must be big on big things and small on small things. but when i listen to the representatives of your group and now to you, mr president, i cannot find a single issue, large or small, in which you see the european union playing an important role. you were just talking about defense policy. is it really true that you think of defence policy as the only area in which europe should act together?
madam president, since we seem to be commemorating 11 september i would just like to add one more to this list, especially today when it is exactly 12 years since the towers fell, and we are witnessing the inaction of the international community in times which will affect the future, though none of us in this house can predict how. we will know in about 10 years, 20 years, or maybe in 50 years our children will know, but i hope for the best for all of us in this time of crisis.
in writing. acknowledging facts is the beginning of wisdom. it is inexcusable to let the european project be reduced to ashes. we must accept that the average european has the right to feel frustrated and even betrayed by the way the recent economic crisis has been handled at different stages and in different instances. a policy that irresponsibly makes promises too big without even trying to deliver on them can only lead to failure. the holding of dozens of summits, followed by the telling of the citizens over and over again of the historic decisions taken to resolve the crisis, cannot fail to exhaust even the most honest of europeans. the first ep elections, which will coincide with the greek presidency, which still has to approve the third aid package, will be decisive. the opposition will no longer be the traditional right-wing and left-wing camps, but eurosceptics and pro-europeans. i'm afraid the former are much easier to mobilize. the european policy should be designed in such a way that preparations for elections are made throughout the entire electoral period, so that the policies already implemented seek to reaffirm the original vision. i believe that the europeans are politically mature enough to envisage larger sets of strategies. it is very sensitive to being kept in the dark and to being distorted. this means that the eu deserves leaders who have the courage to admit their mistakes and shortcomings, and at the same time to communicate clearly, intelligibly and courageously their vision of europe and the consequences and risks of its realisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i myself represent a small but not endangered language group. there are about 23 million of us in the world who speak finno-ugric languages. there are also three finno-ugric peoples in the eu. the combined number of speakers of hungarian, finnish, and myronese is over 16 million, and fortunately these languages are not endangered. in contrast, several smaller finno-ugric languages, such as hanti, mansi, nose, karjala, and veps, are in danger of dying out. a language is classified as endangered when its speakers use it less and less or stop using it altogether. or, sadly, they stop passing it from father to son, mother to daughter. the mother tongue is lost. it is important that the situation of endangered languages is brought to the fore at european union level. but above all, endangered languages should be given the opportunity to flourish at national level. in practice, this means, for example, providing basic and higher education in a language at risk, and providing sufficient resources for radio, television and press. equally important is the support of local businesses, so that people do not have to go to other language areas to find work. all this calls for political will - is there any?
in writing. - i voted against the motion. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the draft amendments to the draft regulation. fortunately, the vote eliminated the worst and most limiting factors, such as the different sustainability criteria for different parts of the tree. the final result was much better than the rapporteur's proposal, but overall not at the level that i could imagine voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted for the motion. the report makes a slight modification to the existing system of collecting detailed information from farms on the impact of the cap at a practical level. over the years, the system has become an essential part of the evaluation of policy outcomes. the proposal removes old loopholes in reporting practice and clarifies the commission's rights to change the system, while keeping the information openly available to the public and researchers. i saw no good reason not to support the resolution and its amendments.
in writing. the european union is a global actor, and its role is to promote the development of the european union. it is shocking that the crisis has led to cuts in most member states in programmes relating to education and lifelong learning. i think that these are precisely the programmes which would have required additional funding. the poverty and exclusion of young people disturb the peace of society. healthy new generations are the benchmark for healthy societies. the eu's role is therefore vital, but the real responsibility lies with the member states. the quality framework for training mentioned in the resolution is particularly important. even before the economic crisis, a culture was established where young people could be kept on a traineeship for years; the so-called 'good' employers, i.e. international organisations or companies, simply 'did not need' to pay, because young people would take the jobs anyway. this is not the way to go: we will pay the price of unpaid training later in the form of young people who are excluded and unemployed. the cost of youth exclusion in 2011 was already eur 153 billion, equivalent to 1.2% of eu gdp. i am a little skeptical about the erasmus for all reforms. we must be careful not to see young people as just a workforce for growth. the mental and physical health of young people is important. education, not just job skills, can be a self-worth. moreover, although ageism is a daily problem, young people are often better equipped for today's work than those of us who have been educated in the 1980s and 1990s.
in writing. - i voted for this excellent report. first of all, i am particularly pleased that the resolution mentions the eurofound report on the experience gained in finland and sweden with the youth guarantee. i am also pleased with the point about immigrants: most of them are young people who specifically want to work, and in this situation we need immigrants to fill many vital jobs. thirdly, i am particularly pleased to see the situation of young women highlighted: the labour market conditions of young women are undoubtedly worse than those of young men. young women in particular are more likely to be discriminated against in the workplace, and women suffer more from family problems than men. at the same time, young women in the eu are more educated than young men, and we are losing out on a huge potential if we do not employ them. one thing i would have liked to have in the resolution is to say that the older generation also needs new skills - they often sit on top of jobs that young people would do better. we also still use the old criteria for recruitment: all jobs, for example in international organisations, government or large companies, require a certain number of years of work. years of training are not counted, although young people today often have to train for years before they enter the workforce.
mr president, it is now absolutely essential to put an end to the killing and to put the refugee plan into effect, and i believe that the european union will do its best to do so. but then there is a much deeper question: how is it possible that international institutions, built after wars with love and passion, such as the un, the security council, nato and the european union, are so incapable of resolving serious international crises? and that's why the united states is, in a way, the world's policeman. i don't think the united states should be blamed for that because the others are weak. the european union's capacity to manage and respond to crises must therefore be further strengthened. now we really must put an end to the killing.
mr president, many of you may have heard obama's speech last night on syria. obama is wise, he did not rush into a targeted attack, and he has given diplomacy a second chance, as the un secretary-general put it. i would hope that the international community would be reasonable. i wish we wouldn't blindly support any opposition. i wish we could give more resources to those who have the pen and the law and human rights as their weapons. even before the syrian civil war, ngos were not allowed to operate freely. bloggers and ngo activists were among the first to be arrested and detained by assad's forces when the unrest began. most of them left the country and now continue blogging and mobilizing civil society in the countries that have opened their doors to them. these democratically elected social change makers are vital to syria's future. they should be influencing the constitution and the content of political systems, not islamist militants whose democratic values are in question. i have a request to the member states: help the syrian refugees. my appeal to the eu is: help the syrians.
mr president, commissioner, we have all been equally concerned about the developments in egypt under the leadership of the muslim brotherhood and have seen the growing dissatisfaction of the citizens with its governance. civil rights were curtailed, minorities, such as the coptic christians, were degraded and excluded from, among other things, the drafting of a constitution. the military intervention in july has now again reversed the course of events, and we all hope, of course, that it will finally be for the better. in this context, it is right that the eu foreign ministers stopped arms and dual-use goods exports, but on the other hand they decided to continue aid and not to cut off trade relations. the country is in dire need of economic recovery and increased prosperity. above all, it needs political solutions that will bring about the integration of the egyptian people.
mr president, i thank my colleague mr giannakou for his multi-faceted report, but i would like to make a few comments. this report, which represents the view of the subcommittee on security and defence policy at this stage, expresses concern that national defence budgets have been cut and that the cuts are seen as being drastic and uncoordinated. however, it should be noted that the eu countries have the second largest combined defence budget in the world, larger than the defence budgets of china and russia combined. instead of worrying about these cuts, i think we should pay more attention to them and call for better cooperation between member states. this money that is being spent has the potential to be used more if it is used in a coordinated way and cooperation is encouraged. resources can be combined in defence planning and elsewhere. joint planning can generate savings in euro, which in turn benefit national defence systems and thus taxpayers. and i don't mean by this a joint defense, but cooperation can still be practiced. the pooling and sharing system is an encouraging example, but it is not the kind of development and sharing of military performance that i am referring to, and it should be invested in.
mr president, i will concentrate my comments on the military structures report. as the previous speaker noted, the report points to capability gaps in european defence and puts the blame on the defence cuts made recently by member states. i do not think that the current capability gaps in european defence are because of recent defence budget cuts. defence planning and procurement is a long process and, unfortunately, many wrong decisions were made as long as five or 10 years ago. because of duplication, fragmentation, poor transparency and corruption, a lot of taxpayers’ money has been wasted. for example, we still have more than 20 procurement projects in europe aimed at procuring the same kind of armoured vehicles. as opposed to working together, member states have differing national standards, and so the end result differs. in the near future, we are going to procure 10 different kinds of helicopter. the economic crisis is really bringing this to the fore. the result is that european defence capabilities are only of limited use. we therefore reject the idea that solving the capability gaps means pouring in money from the eu budget: that is a strategic mistake. in our view, more money would only support the continuation of a system that does not work. it would also mean taking money from civilian programmes. in our view, the report promotes the development of, and investment in, the european drones programme. in paragraphs 34 and 35 the report promotes joint eu ownership of drones. this means not only that we should use eu budget money for research into, and the development of, drones, but also that we should then buy these drones as an eu capability. the report mentions more projects to be financed by the eu budget, such as the defence college, defence agency and the satellite centre. this is a wrong approach: it would be much more logical to pool and share resources, giving us more security for less money.
mr president, i think that mr gahler has said it well: we can be soft power - which we of course want to be - if we have the capacity, in principle, to be hard power. this is a realistic starting point and it is in this light that i will examine the maritime dimension of the report. we must use all the political, diplomatic and socioeconomic means available to support our defence policy at sea. the oceans must be kept open and decisions taken on them by multilateral means. i'm a little concerned about china's line on maritime policy. the growth of power should also bring responsibilities to smaller neighbouring countries. if china continues to encircle more of its territory, discontent will grow in the wider asia-pacific region. the security of the eu is also at stake. i hope that we will soon be able to discuss the situation in the south china sea in this light.
mr. president, it is a pleasure to see you back in good health and leading the speech in your former position. mr diamandoros, first of all i would like to thank you for the work you have done, it is valuable. it hasn't always been easy. for example, the promotion of transparency in the eu and the promotion of good governance, you have pushed these things forward, but the resistance is strong. but you've made it happen, and the cooperation has been good, thank you for that. but the crises of recent years have revealed that there are shortcomings in eu transparency and good governance, and this work needs to continue. the problems of banks and member states have been concealed, and this has led to a worse crisis. now we need to make improvements in both good governance and transparency so that this does not happen again. the eu and member states must increase transparency at all levels. openness builds trust and at the same time allows for timely intervention in all problems. this time, it didn't happen. it couldn't. the eu also needs a law on good governance, and i would hope that the commission would give it. it would have been wonderful if the commission had issued it during your term of office, in accordance with the lisbon treaty. thank you for your work and good health for the years to come!
mr president, as we all know, youth unemployment is alarmingly high. in greece and spain, more than 50 percent of young people are unemployed. we're in danger of losing an entire generation. young people who are suffering from unemployment and parttime work are afraid to take a step back and invest in their future. uncertainty eats away at faith in the future. unemployment also brings with it mental health problems, which is the serious human aspect of the crisis. the social crisis has a longer-term and deeper impact than the economic crisis. the european union youth strategy is a vital tool for improving the situation of young people. together with national actions, it offers young people opportunities to access education and training programmes. the youth strategy must invest more in education and the teaching of skills for working life. the aim will be to ensure a smooth transition from school to working life as quickly as possible.
mr president, it is clear to everyone that the situation of young people in the labour market is very serious today. youth unemployment is a problem for the whole of europe, not just the crisis countries. although the youth guarantee is an important political impetus, it is an insufficient measure and limiting the support to those under 25 is not sufficient. the delay in the integration of young people into the labour market has significant social repercussions. in the absence of a permanent job, the start of a family is postponed and the purchase of a home is postponed. we must remember that europe is also entering an era of unprecedentedly low birth rates. breaking the cycle of youth and young adult unemployment is one of the most important political issues in europe today. we should not try to sweep youth unemployment under the carpet by embellishing statistics. we must support young people in finding jobs, but that is not enough. entrepreneurship requires a certain character and courage. we need action now.
mr president, i did not support this report. the services directive has the key role of promoting the functioning of the common internal market and thereby providing consumers with more choice and increasing employment. however, despite our common will, not all member states have yet implemented all the necessary reforms and opened up their services markets. improving the competitiveness of the services sector is essential for european industry, consumers and, in particular, smes. however, the improvement of competitiveness must not come at any cost. the application of the directive must not jeopardise the european model of a balanced and sustainable social market economy. we must ensure that the directive does not promote social dumping, in which member states compete with each other for the best place for firms to work. it is not right that the service sector should create a new class of working poor for us because the pay is not enough... (the president interrupted)
in writing. − i voted in favour of the opinion on the european banking authority and the prudential supervision of credit institutions, as i believe that the powers of the european banking authority must be in order when the eu's strengthened banking supervision is launched. the non-euro area countries must also be gradually brought under control.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the specific tasks of the european central bank in relation to the prudential supervision of credit institutions, as the euro area needs better supervision of the financial sector. it is reasonable that the european central bank should have a central role in banking supervision, since the ecb is the only possible body to carry out pan-european supervision. the european central bank is best placed to supervise large financial institutions in particular. at the same time, it is important that national banking supervisors maintain their role as supervisors of individual insurance institutions. the report is an important step towards strengthening financial supervision throughout europe, with the aim of bringing non-euro area operators under supervision. this is important in order to prevent possible future financial sector volatility.
mr president, we have been discussing the syrian civil war here for almost three years and we have still not reached a consensus on how to respond to the situation in syria. it is true that the european union has tightened the available economic sanctions by all means as the syrian conflict has progressed. now it looks like our union is finished. civil war does not in itself justify international intervention in the territory of a sovereign state. of course, the use of chemical weapons is a violation of international law. it's a war crime and a crime against humanity. the perpetrators of the sarin attacks should be brought before the international criminal court in the hague. the middle east is explosive. revenge only fuels a cycle of revenge, which in the middle east's powder keg is not supposed to be in anyone's best interest. it is important to remember that crime does not justify crime, nor terrorism justifies terrorism. i hope that in the matter will find ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, i am deeply concerned about the political situation in egypt and, as an orthodox priest, particularly about the rights of the coptic christians in egypt. egypt is an important neighbour of the union in the southern mediterranean. it is the egyptians' own will to develop and develop towards democracy and a rule of law respecting human rights. but, comrades, there are no shortcuts to democracy. the only way to reduce the current political and social divisions and tensions in egypt is through a participatory political process and a process of national reconciliation based on genuine national dialogue. it is important to convey to the egyptians that the european union stands ready to support and encourage in every possible way their efforts towards a deep and lasting democracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because the situation in egypt is particularly close to my heart. i've been to the country for the last few years, and my next trip is in november. i am particularly concerned about the state of minority rights in this country. i am not in any way a supporter of dictatorships, but the situation of minorities has deteriorated since the muslim brotherhood won the election. coptic churches have been burned to the ground, and shia muslims and baha'is are being persecuted. the situation has worsened since august 14, when nearly 50 churches were attacked. but the situation for the muslim brotherhood supporters is also worrying: the mass attack on churches began on the same day as what may have been the largest mass murder in egypt's modern history. the country's security forces have attacked a muslim brotherhood sit-in, killing hundreds. now we're in a cycle of revenge. the provisional government doesn't seem to be in control. the attacks against different groups have increased, especially in rural areas, and the authorities are not doing enough to stop them. the reports of the egyptian interim government's intention to disband the muslim brotherhood are also highly questionable and endanger the security of other religious communities. i hope that the eu foreign ministers will decide as soon as possible on measures to prevent religious violence in egypt. minorities must be able to hold public office, live in their homes, repair their religious buildings and practice their religion in peace. non-religious people must also be able to live freely, and all this must be guaranteed by the constitution. the eu has a normative influence on the egyptian leadership, and it must be used now, urgently. egypt is the most important arab country and plays an important role in maintaining stability in the region as a whole.
in writing. - i am very pleased with the report on the eu's military structures and voted in favour of it. first, i support the establishment of a proper operational headquarters for the eu. we are, of course, above all a civilian crisis management powerhouse, but bringing together both military and civilian capacities would be a great way for member states to save on defence spending. i also support the so-called pesco mechanism, so that we can take the csdp to a new level. in addition, it is essential to improve the rapid reaction capability of eu combat forces and to simplify their deployment procedures. it's almost shameful how "slow" our fast-moving troops are. this is closely linked to the development of the athena financing mechanism. in addition, eu-nato cooperation must be improved in the interests of all. this report has done an excellent job of highlighting all these elements.
in writing. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. it is good that this is now on the agenda for the eastern partnership meeting in vilnius in november. eu-belarus relations have further deteriorated following the 2010 and 2012 elections, but it is good that the eu has remained firm with belarus - this is not always a given in our foreign policy. it is worrying that we do not easily criticize countries that violate human rights, such as azerbaijan, because they have natural resources. the report rightly stresses the need for belarus to guarantee fundamental rights and to embark on democratic reforms. i agree that the release and repatriation of political prisoners is the only way to improve eu-belarus relations. of course, we must improve and facilitate contacts between people. the eu should therefore invest more in supporting the opposition and civil society.
in writing. - i am very concerned about russia's current policy in the eastern partnership countries and i support the resolution in question. russia has both imposed sanctions on ukraine to prevent a possible eu association agreement and lured armenia into the eurasian customs union by questionable means. russia knows full well that armenia's decision will at least temporarily block the free trade agreement with the eu. i hope, however, that the eu will not commit the same crime as russia, namely interference in the internal affairs of its neighbours - genuine finnishness. our strongest weapon in this situation is to convince hearts and minds that the countries still have an independent and at the same time european future. i hope that georgia and moldova will make their decision without regard to russian pressure. the eu should not sink to the level of pressure. this would undermine the position of our positive neighbourhood policy. one thing is certain: we need an increasingly active pan-european civil society and youth activity in the eastern partnership countries. i hope that this will be discussed in vilnius.
the author. - mr president, it is very important that the european parliament responds to the recent events in the democratic republic of congo. the violence is on the increase there, and in this and other crises, women and children are the ones who suffer the most. thousands of civilians have already died, peacekeepers have been killed, and millions of people have been forced to flee their homes. this is the most egregious violation of human rights. the international community must act. the european union, the african union and the united nations must do everything possible to solve this humanitarian problem. at the same time, we must do everything we can to work together to promote peace, stability and security. in this respect, the recent negotiations in kampala were very encouraging and we must defend these human rights defenders.
mr president, commissioner, the security situation in the democratic republic of congo has deteriorated again. the eastern congo is controlled by the m23 rebels and ordinary people are forced to live in fear. families fear that their children will be sent to the front lines of battle, that women will be raped, and that men will be killed because they are on the so-called wrong side. the rebels are supported by rwanda and the un and the us, among others, have called on rwanda to stop supporting the m23 group. un peacekeepers have also been involved in the conflict, most recently in august. the un, the us, the eu and the african union are currently visiting the great lakes region and i would like to ask the commissioner for fresh information on whether the international community has been able to promote peace negotiations and to engage in dialogue with the local people.
mr president, negotiations between the democratic republic of congo and rebel groups have been frozen since may and the level of violence in eastern congo has increased further. 2.7 million eastern congolese have been internally displaced, and nearly half a million have fled to neighbouring countries and live in inhumane conditions. 6.4 million people are in urgent need of food and emergency aid. the vast natural resources of eastern congo have been in the hands of organized criminals. the rebels use the trade to finance their activities and the continuation of the conflict. we have expressed our concern in the past, in particular about the scale of sexual violence in the eastern congo. rape is a weapon of war. the practice of impunity leads to a climate of repeated sexual crimes. national and international efforts are needed to bring to justice those responsible for human rights, war crimes and sexual crimes. the democratic republic of congo itself must complete its security sector reform and strengthen its rule of law.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, for the second time this year parliament will have to take a stand on the worsening human rights situation in central africa. this richly endowed country is one of the poorest and most insecure in the world. the european union should carefully weigh its attitude to the situation in the central african republic. respect for human rights is a fundamental value of our union and a key element of the cotonou partnership agreement. as the largest donor of development aid, the european union plays a key role in alleviating the suffering of the country's civilian population. the unrest has left families homeless, deepening the humanitarian crisis and increasing food shortages. the most outrageous thing is that rape is being used as a weapon of war, as are child soldiers. the european union should give its full support to the decision of the international criminal court to investigate the brutal violations of human rights committed by the central african republic. it is important for the victims and their families that human rights violations be properly investigated and that the perpetrators be punished.
mr president, the government of the central african republic has been virtually destroyed since the last coup and the security situation is very serious. the security situation outside bangui, the capital, is particularly poor. there is no police, no justice system, not even basic health care. of the country's 4.6 million people, half are children. many people have fled the cities and villages and are eating roots to survive. malaria, other diseases, and high maternal mortality and malnutrition kill even more people than armed conflict. it is inconceivable that the international community has ignored this humanitarian disaster in the central african republic for so long, and as many colleagues here have already said, the eu cannot avoid responsibility as a supporter of the region. at the moment we need urgent measures to save lives in that country.
the author. - mr president, the human rights situation in bahrain has unfortunately deteriorated. the brutal dispersal of demonstrations demanding democracy has also led to the deaths of demonstrators. the reports of torture of prisoners are alarming. freedom and dignity belong to all bahrainis, including those who criticize the government on the streets or online and on social media. bahrain should seek genuine and honest dialogue with civil society. the wave of democracy that began in the arab spring has also been a touchstone for european foreign policy. it is important that we avoid double standards. we must act in accordance with our values in all the european union's external policies. a functioning and just society requires honest dialogue and interaction between civil society and political decision-makers. we must listen to all sections of the population equally, and we want to remind bahrain of this. we're not trying to start a revolution. political prisoners, torture of their own citizens and police violence are not indications of this.
mr president, it is not easy to be under the influence of iran, saudi arabia and the united states at the same time. i am therefore pleased that the epp succeeded in softening this resolution against bahrain. this is a situation that requires restraint and understanding. the bahraini government faces a difficult challenge to prevent unrest in the current political environment and climate. this doesn't mean i'm not concerned about the situation. it is deplorable that the bahraini government has decided to freeze freedom of assembly in the capital and that political groups must obtain permission from the government to meet foreign diplomats or international organisations. i also hope that the un special representatives will be allowed to enter the country as soon as possible. i am also concerned about the way in which peaceful demonstrations have been dispersed in august with the king's permission. there is also some question about the treatment of some of those who have offended the king in bahrain. i hope above all that, as in all the countries of the so-called arab spring, the various factions will find their way to the negotiating table so that national conciliation can begin.
mr president, the situation in bahrain is largely a result of the arab spring unrest and the government of the country has introduced a number of laws restricting civil rights in order to control the opposition and to silence anti-government protests. however, the appeal to control terrorism must not lead to excessive use of force and those responsible for violence must be held accountable. the detention of children and the torture of prisoners are inexcusable. there are certainly - as has been said here - states in the region where the human rights situation is much weaker, and that is why the resolution also wanted to highlight the recent improvements in the situation in the country. it is a pity that not all the political groups in this house wanted to support this text, which i think is very well balanced and good.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a fisheries agreement with a third country, and in particular with a country which is quite poor compared to us, must meet a number of conditions. it shall in no circumstances prevent or impair the livelihood of the local population. it shall ensure that the sea area continues to be a long-term fishing area. it should not cost the eu unnecessarily much and it should make sensible and sustainable fishing profitable. it is not easy to reconcile these different objectives, but this time the commission has negotiated a protocol which i can in any case vote for. i congratulate commissioner damanaki on the result and i thank my colleague mr wałęsa for his support. the fisheries partnership agreement with mauritania represents the new type of fisheries partnership agreement called for by the european parliament. it is an agreement that is environmentally and socially and economically sustainable in a way that is very different from any of our previous agreements. the committee on fisheries voted against the agreement by a relatively narrow majority, as spanish fleets in general and the canary islands fleet in particular felt that the agreement was bad for them. that is why i have followed with great interest the new negotiations in which mauritania has now succeeded in resolving the spanish concerns. it has also meant, as far as i understand it, that the spanish government has changed its mind and is now supporting the agreement. that is why i believe and hope that we shall be able to vote in favour of it by a large majority tomorrow. this agreement is based on the best available scientific evidence. it allows the eu to fish only the surplus fish that are there. it provides opportunities for the development of the mauritanian economy. it has a human rights clause. it is fully transparent and of greater economic value to european taxpayers. the protocol is not only important for the eu and mauritania, but it also sends an important signal to the rest of the world. the eu is an attractive partner for fisheries cooperation agreements. the fisheries partnership agreement will help us to prevent other nations from emptying the sea, and we have made good progress towards an external dimension in fisheries policy.
the question of the blue card. you spoke of hypocrisy. it is very modest compared with what you are now representing, the aspirations of the tobacco industry. does it not shock you that every second smoker is, in fact, somehow affected by this tobacco? you have not taken into account the doctors' remarks, and to include in this same directive or thinking all the other destructive things in the world, that is hypocrisy if any. what do you think of this lobbying?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, linda mcavan, on her excellent work. in canada, smoking among 15- to 19-year-olds dropped by half when health warnings on tobacco packages were increased. in 2000, one in four smoked, but by 2011, only one in eight did. the question now is whether or not we will allow the tobacco industry to lure more and more teenagers into addiction to deadly products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted. tobacco addiction is not good for the industry either. in europe, the cost of tobacco-related sick leave is €7 billion per year. electronic cigarettes are rapidly becoming a new and growing channel of nicotine addiction. for example, in hungary last year 15 percent of 13-15-year-olds had tried e-cigarettes, in paris the number of students who tried e-cigarettes doubled, and a third of them had never smoked before.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr andrea zanon, for his excellent work. this is a welcome step forward and two important reforms in particular are very important. first, the environmental impact assessment is extended to hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, used in the production of shale gas. it's really necessary. the production of lpg involves huge land areas and also large quantities of chemicals. the threats to groundwater are real. in many countries, local citizens strongly oppose these plans. secondly, the qualification and independence requirements for environmental impact assessment staff are specified. this is also very necessary. in my own country, there are a number of projects, including peat production and mining, where local people are suspicious of environmental impact assessments... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - corruption increases crime, conflict and instability and undermines economic growth. the fight against corruption should be given greater weight in eu foreign and trade policy. it is important to ensure that the aid and assistance provided by the european taxpayers also reaches the desired objective. european companies must also commit themselves to corporate social responsibility and respect for human rights in all their activities, both within and outside the eu. i am very concerned about the estimates that up to a third of aid used for development ends up in the hands of the illegals through corruption in developing countries. corruption, together with human rights violations, particularly weakens the most vulnerable in society. we must make sure that the aid we receive from europe does not fall into the hands of dishonest people like ashes in the wind. one way of avoiding the corruption of european taxpayers' euros is to establish ourselves as a provider of technical assistance, especially to developing countries, and to support the improvement of the structures of the rule of law and good governance, alongside the necessary humanitarian work. it is of the utmost importance that agreements with third countries include a human rights clause, which will enable us to require our partners to commit themselves even more to good governance.
in writing. - i voted for this important report! european prosperity is based on both social rights and economic freedoms. europe is becoming more integrated and citizens are moving more actively across borders in search of work. the rules of jurisdiction applicable in the field of industrial relations must be adapted to the realities of today's european working life. social rights are intended to protect the rights of the worker and the individual. the right to strike is a guarantee of social justice. these rights must be exercised in practice, not just on paper! the brussels i regulation is of great importance to eu citizens. this regulation provides citizens with clearer rules on access to justice. the rules should also take account of specific issues relating to workers. the worker is always the weaker party in the employment relationship who must be protected. the jurisdiction of the courts of other member states shall not weaken the position of the worker. we need uniform regulation that does not exclude or discriminate against any group all work is important. social rights should be for everyone.
mr president, the tobacco directive is a very important directive. it is important that we do everything possible to prevent more and more young people from taking up smoking. that is why i voted for the directive, but it is equally important to note that this was a fairly balanced outcome. this was certainly not a triumph for the tobacco industry, as some extremists like to make the point. on the contrary, menthol cigarettes, for example, are banned for a transitional period of eight years, which is a long enough transitional period. the electronic cigarette, i voted for the electronic cigarette to be treated as a nicotine product, like cigarettes, so that it can be sold in shops like cigarettes. i do not believe that we can improve the world and europe by continually tightening up regulation. we need to make sensible regulation, and this is what it is.
mr president, i'm sorry i missed two explanations, but i was serving the finnish media. i regret that the european parliament was not able to vote today in favour of adopting the tobacco directive, but i think that returning the directive to committee is a better alternative than the clear weakening of the tobacco rules that has been seen through the eyes of the judiciary. delaying the vote until the greek presidency or even beyond the elections is a dirty game of the tobacco industry with big money. my position is clear. i have seen enough of the suffering caused by tobacco. tobacco is a more addictive substance than heroin. yet, the tobacco industry is ruthlessly trying to water down reasonable restrictions at great expense. it attracts unscrupulous politicians and scientists who have no regard for the ethics of research to downplay the dangers of tobacco. that is why we must continue to stand firm against the tobacco mafia's attacks.
mr president, i would like to thank you. parliament voted against my proposal to grant a cultural and regional exemption for the åland islands and the finnish west coast. the decision is a little incomprehensible because it allowed at the same time tobacco products which are actually much more dangerous than snus. for my constituents and for people living in åland and österbotten, this is a somewhat incomprehensible decision. i think the commission should understand that the 202 members of parliament who now voted against the proposal, who voted for the derogation, should really be people to be listened to. we cannot, in the long run, make decisions based on the assumption that one size fits all. i think the commission should listen to the citizens and to common sense.
i voted in favour of the report. citizens' trust in the eu has suffered a major collapse during the ongoing economic and financial crisis. in addition, many citizens feel that the eu is too distant. however, we can increase citizens' trust in the eu by involving local and regional authorities more closely in the eu dialogue and eu decision-making. after all, with tax revenues falling and social spending rising, local and regional authorities are the best experts on the daily lives of their citizens, better than the eu. i therefore supported the mazzoni report, which wisely states that the economic downturn is jeopardising the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives and threatening the future of an innovative and competitive europe. we must not spare europe from death, but must do everything possible to promote sustainable employment, combat poverty and exclusion and strengthen social cohesion.
mr president, commissioner, the question is to speed up the creation of a european research area, which is absolutely essential if we are to achieve the objectives of the 2020 programme of 3% of gross domestic product for research. europe should invest heavily in research and product development in the face of the economic crisis. unfortunately, many member states are currently doing the opposite, cutting national research and innovation budgets. the creation of the european research area goes hand in hand with the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme, which is currently being finalised. the european research area must be based on encouraging the best, so that europe can compete internationally and, on the other hand, europe can be an attractive research area also for those coming from third countries. there are major gaps in the mobility of researchers, career development and participation of women within the eu. the house is currently considering a directive to facilitate the mobility of researchers and students from third countries, but somehow i feel that we need a similar framework legislation for researchers and students within the eu, so that their mobility and career development is easier than it is now. innovation is all too often thought of as being in the field of information technology, whereas the most important innovations that europe needs in terms of national economies are social innovations, for example in the home care of the elderly or in telehealth systems. there is also a lot of work to be done in europe in the area of the commercialisation of research and research results. it is a joke that apple and microsoft were never able to be established in europe because we have a ban on setting up a company in a garage.
mr president, violence against women, especially domestic violence, violence within the family, is still taboo in many countries and in others, in most countries, it is also something that is silenced. even the victim wants to keep silent about the violence he has experienced, because if a close relative has been abused, many victims would rather keep silent than speak out or take the matter to court. it's important that we talk about this. this is how people will realize that he is not the only victim, there are many, and that this is something to be condemned. we must admit that women also commit violence and this is equally reprehensible, but at the moment women are far more often victims than men on a global scale, but both acts of violence, all violence, must be condemned and fought against.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, it has been a pleasure and an honour to serve as the s&d group's shadow rapporteur on this report on the reform of the legislation on pleasure boats and watercraft. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr malcolm harbour, for his excellent cooperation and his leadership in producing an excellent report which will help us to promote consumer safety and more sustainable development. for consumers, the reform improves safety in several ways. the reform aims, inter alia, to improve the traceability of watercraft and to prevent accidents caused by the overturning of watercraft. in addition, the reforms also address, for example, the safety requirements of electrical systems and gas equipment in a positive way. in addition to protecting consumers, the reform also protects the environment. one of the environmental benefits of the reform is that it will promote the uptake of biofuels. i am pleased that the reform will also help to support the activities of european shipping companies, will support their competitive potential on the global market and will move us towards a more sustainable and safer eu.
mr president, commissioner, the main responsibility for taking in the more than two million refugees from syria has been borne by the neighbouring countries of jordan, lebanon and turkey. these countries need help and financial support to survive. the jordanian ambassador, when he visited our group this summer, said that the situation was becoming a threat to their own internal security. in addition to humanitarian aid, many eu countries have taken in asylum seekers and also quota refugees. most of them are women and children. it has already been mentioned here that germany will take in 5 000, sweden 1 900 and my country finland will allocate an additional quota of 500 refugees specifically to syrian refugees. but it is clear that the problem of two million refugees will not be solved by accepting quota refugees alone. a political solution is needed to bring about an immediate ceasefire in the region and to enable the process of clarifying the situation to begin. until this is achieved, humanitarian aid and temporary shelter for people are needed.
mr president, the council's discharge was rejected in 2009 and in 2010 and we are again in the same situation. there is a debate about which institution has this right, but since parliament is the only institution elected by free and democratic elections, there should be little ambiguity. we can argue about this in legal terms, but since the council has not answered our questions, namely those of the committee on budgetary control, concerning neither the cost of staff nor the cost of the assembly building under construction, the only way out of this impasse is, in my view, clear. if the council were to give these answers, the citizens would know what they cost, and then parliament and the committee on budgetary control could give the council a discharge.
mr president, thank you very much for your understanding. it is regrettable that this eia legislation has not become more effective in terms of public communication and, above all, biodiversity impacts and wider ecosystem impacts. if we want a better and more eco-efficient economy and a better resource efficiency, we have to act wisely. we must then, in assessing the environmental impact of projects, and particularly those that use extensive land, such as mining projects, take into account ecosystem services, biodiversity and the wider environmental impact. it's the only way we can build a sustainable economy. however, this is a positive step forward compared to the present situation, so i hope that further improvements will be made when we go to negotiate with the council from now on.
i voted in favour of this important report. we have produced a report which will help us to improve consumer safety and support the european boat. the reform improves security in many ways. it improves the traceability of vessels and contributes positively to the safety of electrical systems and gas equipment on board. it also seeks to prevent accidents caused by the capsizing of boats. the reform will primarily support the activities of european boating companies and increase their competitiveness on the global market. this is how we will take the eu towards a more sustainable and secure future.
i voted in favour of this report. the report strikes the right balance between patient safety and staff mobility. the reform improves the safety of consumers, citizens and patients in many ways. in addition to the european professional card, imi facilitates the authentication of workers' documents. as a representative of a small language group, i am pleased with the language requirements. the reform includes an early warning system. it is of the utmost importance, particularly in areas such as patient safety. through reform, we can support the eu's economic growth and innovation. promoting labour mobility is particularly important for young people in those member states where youth unemployment is alarmingly high.
in writing. - i voted for this important recommendation. the establishment of the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership is a serious attempt to accelerate economic and political integration with our new neighbours. europe is uniting, but the pace of enlargement is slowing down. the focus is now on the countries that emerged from the break-up of the former soviet union and which still need to improve in order to move towards a genuine market economy and respect for the rule of law. the eu and armenia have agreed to cooperate more closely in the field of human rights. the facilitation of the visa procedure plays an important role in developing and enhancing eu-armenia cooperation. the mobility of citizens will be supported. the additional bureaucracy and the complexity of the procedure stand in the way of this fundamental objective. a faster, cheaper and simpler visa procedure will increase the mobility of citizens, especially young people. mobility plays a crucial role in supporting people-to-people contacts. and yet, in the end, the european union is about people. it is clear that armenia wants to establish closer links across its borders in the future. it is in our interest to have the eu as a partner and not, for example, russia.
mr president, i voted in favour of this important and first-of-its-kind eu-china investment agreement. the concentration of investment partnerships is justified. however, certain reservations and conditions should be attached to the negotiations. it is important that the agreement should include a binding corporate social responsibility clause. the agreement also requires a binding social and environmental clause. the implementation of the clauses must also be monitored. binding means that the contract can be terminated if the conditions are not met. i think that the establishment of a separate dispute settlement mechanism is only in the interest of lawyers. i hope the commission will not pursue this matter any further. the european union is a union of values and must act accordingly in its foreign and trade policy. we must not practice double-mindedness.
mr president, the total value of bilateral trade between the eu and taiwan is worth 40 billion euros a year. the eu is also a major player in taiwan. the european union may lose its ability to operate in taiwan unless it negotiates a comprehensive partnership agreement with the country. taiwan is currently negotiating a number of agreements with a number of other trading partners, but comrades, where is the eu when taiwan is looking for new partnerships? the economic crisis has left europe with no choice but to lose out on partnership opportunities. the commission should promote trade in goods and services between taiwan and the eu. there are certain reservations and conditions to be attached to these negotiations. the european union is a union of values and should act on that basis in its foreign and trade policy. the planned trade relations with taiwan should be promoted at the same pace as the eu-china investment treaty negotiations.
mr president, the syrian crisis, which began in 2011, has only gotten worse. the victims of the civil war are fleeing the country at an accelerating rate. the priority is neighbouring countries, and already more than 2 million registered syrian refugees have fled the country. they are 75% women and children and are particularly vulnerable to human rights violations and abuses. the international community and the european union have been far too passive on this issue. europe must continue to provide financial support to syria's neighbours to enable them to provide the necessary humanitarian aid. but money is not the answer to the crisis. the large number of refugees places great social and administrative pressures on the host countries. we must also find a solution inside syria to help those who have left their homes. i am personally pleased that finland has offered its help and its language skills in the matter of the destruction of syrian chemical weapons.
mr president, the european countries are faced with a difficult question. why are people drawn to right-wing extremist movements and violent movements? as has been shown here, perhaps the most serious example is here in greece, the golden dawn. why is it getting so much support? some have said that the reason is that the state system in greece has collapsed and people are looking for some kind of counterpart to their security needs from this golden dawn, unemployment has increased. perhaps we should also consider here in parliament that we talk a lot about the sustainability gap and economic issues, but perhaps we have a lack of compassion here and in the european union. income disparities are growing, there are many people who feel that they are not cared for, that they are excluded, and then there are also those who resort to means that are not acceptable. violence is always to be condemned, but condemnation alone is not enough now, and the european union must also consider ways of responding to this challenge in its own policy.
madam president, generally speaking, looking back at our troubled history, we could mention two or three reasons for increased radicalism, right or left. the first is expectations being shattered. when we look at the election results leading up to the machtübernahme in 1933 we see that the expectations of part of the german middle class and working class were shattered. that leads us to a second reason. there is inbuilt in politics a tendency towards opportunism. we politicians tend to cherry-pick issues and push the difficult decisions to the sidelines. this cherry-picking creates illusions, and illusions create disappointment. the third issue comes from moral human decency. we should be ready to help our sisters and brothers in need. when we turn away from this principle we open up to human catastrophes. by not standing up for human rights, we open doors which might be hard to close at a later stage in history. i usually sit here in this room between a catalan and a greek and i, and the rest of us, should stand up for them and their democratic and social rights. this is probably the only way in which we can avoid a rise in right-wing radicalism.
madam president, i would underline that, while detecting boats is important, it does not rescue people. the question is the lack of rules and knowing who is responsible and what to do. i do not think politicians should hide behind technological solutions instead of developing a common refugee policy. a further aspect is that this is supposed to be applied on all external borders. the external borders are very different. lives will not need to be saved on the 1 300-km finnish border. i do not think we should establish this system on all borders. our wolves and bears can look after themselves.
mr president, the european union must be consistent in its relations with russia. we have a duty to promote human rights and the development of democracy. the partnership and cooperation with russia is of course important, but we have reason to be concerned about the direction of the russian rule of law. we must not tolerate repeated and flagrant violations of the principles of human dignity and democracy. the videos that are circulating on the internet are shocking. there is a blatant violence against russian sexual minorities and immigrants. the rule of law does not mean that ngos monitoring flagrant violations are threatened with closure as a result of legislative changes. the case is clear: legislation that discriminates against sexual minorities on the basis of their sexual orientation or gender identity is in breach of russia's own and russia's international obligations. russia has to fix this on its own. a pluralistic, open and dialogue-oriented civil society is a wealth, not a threat, and this is also the case in russia.
mr president, this parliament has shown an unbelievable lack of understanding for international relations, member state sovereignty and the principle of subsidiarity.
i voted in favour of this report. free movement is one of the fundamental freedoms on which the european union as a whole is built. it is an achievement of which we can be proud, but we must remember that with freedom comes responsibility. all member states must share the responsibility for better management of their external borders. mutual trust is a prerequisite. we also need solidarity in the wholesale trade. the keys to trust are found in open cooperation and information sharing. cooperation must also extend beyond the union's borders. fundamental rights and privacy must be protected at all times and in all circumstances. the new border guard system is not only about preventing illegal immigration, but also about protecting migrants, especially when they are travelling by sea. the recent tragic events off lampedusa show that protection is indeed needed.
in writing. - i voted for the committee's motion. the common european border surveillance system eurosur shall support the reinforcement of the control of the external borders of the union and shall promote cooperation and the flow of information. it is essential that the united kingdom and ireland be given the opportunity to accede to the agreement through bilateral negotiations. limiting the participation of countries would have been a harmful starting point for the development and subsequent application of the border guard system.
it is important, mr president, that in addition to these exceptions for cadmium, the european parliament has now raised another problem, namely the removal of the remaining exception for the continued use of mercury in button batteries. the commission notes that the exemption is not limited to the manufacture of batteries, but also to the manufacture of batteries for electricity, which is a very important aspect of the electricity market. the eu button cells market has already been virtually mercury free and has a market share of around 39%. therefore, the fact that the deadline for 2015 is brought forward will accelerate the technological development and above all it will also level the market in such a way that we will not favour, for example, the cheaper and inferior mercury-containing button batteries over the better ones.
mr president, we have here unequivocally condemned the cia's us-led prison flight programme. however, some member states have remained silent. the cia prisons did not generate the kind of scandal that the human suffering and human rights abuses that it caused deserved. illegal and arbitrary detention, torture, violation of the principle of non-refoulement and involuntary disappearance are all serious charges. the second point is that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the house has previously called on finland, among others, to provide all the necessary information relating to the cia prison programme. unfortunately, finland has not done so. the fight against terrorism must also respect human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms. there are no exceptions. terrorism does not justify terrorism, and illegality does not justify illegality.
i voted in favour of the report. the european union needs to further strengthen cross-border law enforcement cooperation. the instruments for exchanging information in the field of law enforcement must be made more uniform and established. this is a major issue for the legal system. the prüm decision is a step in the right direction, but it still requires improvements. the inclusion of the prüm decision in the eu treaties is of great importance. the union must also have the real ability and the will to exercise democratic control over the implementation of the prüm decision. if this is not the case, the development of law enforcement cooperation is meaningless. we need an open political debate on how to exchange information safely. the exchange of information must never jeopardise the protection of citizens' data. the fundamental rights of citizens must always be fully respected.
the president voted in favour of this report. deeply rooted caste discrimination and immunity practices are among the most serious human rights problems in the world today. it's about the true mark of destiny. so the mere fact of being born into a certain caste determines a person's entire future. the caste is also a major cause of poverty and inequality, and its effects cannot be eliminated by schooling or by moving to another locality. an estimated 260 million people worldwide suffer from discrimination based on work and origin. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the future of the european union. it bites into the very core of our humanity and makes a man a slave and prisoner of his birth. it's an affront to humanity. alice munro, who won the nobel prize for literature today, could not write a novel about "too much luck for caste discrimination".
mr president, peace in the greater middle east, including pakistan, will depend on the peaceful co-existence of different ethnic and religious groups. the arab spring seems to be fostering violence and religious intolerance and we must speak out against this. the role of the eu here is important. it can make a difference and i think we should discuss whether the eu ought to do a lot more to make religious freedom a precondition for humanitarian and development aid.
mr president, commissioner, reports indicate that the sudanese security forces have arrested at least 800 activists, members of opposition parties and journalists in the wake of recent anti-government protests. the arrests show that the pressure on dissidents has increased significantly in recent times. amnesty international is concerned that these detained people are in danger and, as we have heard, some have already been subjected to torture and other inhuman treatment. these detainees are held in isolation, with no contact with their families and no access to legal aid. media and internet censorship make it even more difficult to obtain information. commissioner, what is needed now is the intervention of the international community and the search for a political solution. however, it must be ensured that humanitarian aid through the ngos can continue.
author. − mr president, iraq is becoming an increasingly violent place. five thousand civilians have been killed and up to 10 000 injured since the beginning of 2013. these are only the figures we can be sure about, but the problem is much greater because the entire administrative system is on the brink of becoming dysfunctional. iraq has suffered greatly as a result of the war in syria; social and economic welfare in iraq is dismal. this protracted systemic instability produces more violence between and within sectarian camps. we strongly condemn this situation and believe that it generates instability in the wider region as well. we call on the government of iraq to conduct a swift and full independent international investigation of all acts of violence, including the attack on camp ashraf on 1 september 2013. we call urgently on political, religious and civilian leaders and on the security services to start to work together to ensure that all iraqi citizens feel equally protected. in particular, we call on iraqi religious leaders to start a dialogue between sunni and shia clerics as a necessary tool for the establishment of social peace and stability in the country. the recent talks between iran and the usa are an opportunity for iraq too. iraq could act as a bridge, since it has strong ties with both. this could help to stabilise the region.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, with 5 000 civilians killed and 10 000 injured since the beginning of this year the plight of the people of iraq is unbearable. while the faith of all iraqis is of equal importance, and we have to call for different parties inside iraq to find a peaceful solution, there is a single case of violence that stands out. it stands out because in this case the iraqi government was clearly responsible for the safety of refugees in camp ashraf – people who had a status, a badge on their chests: a badge saying that they were united nations protected refugees. i am of course talking about the horrible slaughter of 52 unarmed iranian refugees inside the camp on 1 september. this resolution is absolutely right in strongly condemning this attack. the iraqi government cannot bring back those lives, but what it now has to do is to immediately and unconditionally release the seven hostages and allow an international investigation, and we as the european union must bring pressure to bear in order for this to happen.
mr president, our resolution covers a lot of cruel incidents in iraq but the worst of all is the attack on camp ashraf of 1 september in which 52 innocent, unarmed iranian refugees were executed. women were targeted in particular. only one woman survived: the rest were killed or kidnapped by iraqi forces. it is hard to understand why this has been kept so quiet. why has the international community not forced iraq to release the seven refugees who were kidnapped in the course of the attack? they risk being tortured and deported to iran. this is the result of failures by the un and usa, which had guaranteed the safety and security of these people. i hope that the new un envoy in iraq has learned from this terrible tragedy. we must ensure that iraq is held accountable for this crime against humanity.
in writing. - i just voted for this report. i have myself expressed concern on several occasions that the eu does not have a strategy to maintain the vitality of an ageing european population, let alone to tackle the demographic challenge. our current age policy focuses on the management of an over-ageing population rather than on restoring a healthy demographic structure. in addition to a common will, the creation of a common strategy requires that we be able to compare data from different member states. this requirement also applies to demographic statistics. i therefore warmly support the idea in the report of creating a common and comparable eu-wide reference framework for the systematic production of statistics on the demographic data of the european population. perhaps through these comparable and reliable demographic statistics, more and more european decision-makers will wake up to the reality of the demographic disaster that threatens europe, with the result that our welfare state is collapsing and the public sector's sustainability deficit is becoming intolerable. it is perhaps in this way that we will finally find a common will to solve the catastrophe which threatens the very existence of europe!
mr president, the sahel, which is suffering from extreme poverty, is one of the poorest and, of course, most deprived regions in the world. the region has long had serious problems with human rights, the rule of law, security and armed conflict. the situation is so complex and intertwined that it will take a long time to resolve it, and it is important that the european union also continue its efforts to meet the living conditions and basic needs of the people living in the region. i myself signed the amendment to the report which calls for the sahrawi people of western sahara to be taken into account in the exploitation of the natural resources of the region. with this report, the european parliament has not forgotten its commitment to the living conditions and human rights of the people of western sahara. the report also sends a clear message to the countries of the region to give priority to the well-being of all those living in the country and to the human rights of the people of lausanne.
mr president, eu leaders and the commission too often declare solidarity and solidarity in the adoption of aid packages. i declare our solidarity and solidarity with the eu leaders and the commission in doing everything possible to combat tax fraud and eliminate tax havens. information must be exchanged and eu countries must not allow one member state to steal tax revenues from another member state. this type of tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax evasion undermines citizens' trust in society and also leads people to wonder why they should pay taxes when others are evading them and the eu is doing nothing about it. at the same time, large tax losses are a threat to the well-being of europe and the well-being of european citizens.
mr president, the free movement of workers is an important basic principle. however, this debate has not yet overlooked the fact that social security systems differ from one country to another. the principle of the residence-based system is to grant social security benefits to residents, and the social security rights based on it are very broad in finland, sweden and denmark, among others, compared to other eu countries where the insurance-based system limits these rights mainly to unemployment and pension protection. when labour moves from one country to another, this means, among other things, that health services must be provided at the same cost and on the same terms and conditions as for permanent residents of the municipality, even if the workers work in the country for only four months. similarly, child and childcare allowances have to be paid abroad, even if the family does not live in the country of work. i think it is important that these social security coordination issues are clarified, because this is otherwise fuelling racist talk.
for the alde group mr president, the current state of the eu's eastern partnership ahead of the vilnius summit raises more questions than answers. the only certainty is that each partner country will have to determine and want to determine for itself the level and the objectives of its ambition. the interests of the partner countries in the eu partnership are not uniform but very different, which is understandable. each country has its own history, culture, geographical and political realities. the eu must treat each partner country as its own case, but eu standards cannot vary between countries. the eu, like the european parliament, must avoid double standards. the eastern partnership is not a process for the sake of the process, but the eu and its partner countries must be able to set goals together, which are then jointly committed to and implemented. commitment must be reciprocal, and commitment must be rewarded, and neglect not. russia remains a strong player and the eurasian customs union is a natural alternative for some of the eastern partners. this option should also be respected by the eu if the partner country chooses to do so. and cooperation with russia does not exclude cooperation with the eu. i call for a coherent policy for the eu, a policy in which human rights and the rule of law also play a very central role, and where the eu's values are of course reflected in the eu's discussions and decision-making.
madam president, i hope our debate on the european neighbourhood will not slide into a very unconstructive dichotomy: primarily for ukraine, of course, but also for the other neighbours. we want those countries to choose europe, but we also have to bear in mind that the europe we want them to choose is not based on dividing lines. we are not building an exclusive club here, and by bringing ukraine and the others closer to the eu we should also see them as bridge-builders. it is clear that there is a bargaining game going on between brussels, kiev and moscow, and we want the commitment to democratic reform of ukraine, moldova, georgia and other members to not be lost in this bargaining process. if we want to talk in terms of choices, there should be no other choice for the eastern neighbours but moving resolutely towards the rule of law, freedom and democracy. however, such issues as trade, business and people-to-people contact should not be a matter of dichotomy.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. when parliament voted by a convincing majority last spring for the basic regulation for a new fisheries policy, many of us saw a light on the horizon. in 1968, garret hardin had written the article on the tragedy of the commons in the journal science. for decades, it had also been the theory of the unregulated public that said: there are always free riders trying to get as much out of the public as possible without caring about the consequences. in 2009, elinor åström was awarded the nobel prize in economics for her research showing that the unregulated public always suffers from the insidious over-exploitation. so it was with the open grasslands of the wild west, so it was with the european fishing waters. the proposal for new rules for the european fisheries fund, which has been discussed by the committee on fisheries and which parliament is to vote on tomorrow, still shows the same traces of tragic free passenger behaviour. the worst proposal is to use taxpayer money to build new fishing boats. all the studies on subsidies of this type clearly show the same thing: even when the good intentions say they want to favour small businesses, the bulk of all subsidies go to large companies, which also often have rather transparent excuses, fish in the wrong places or try to hide their predation. the less successful wording of the committee on fisheries' proposal also includes proposals to use taxpayers' money to pay for fishing that is not carried out. it is a bad solution to a problem that also sometimes arises in finnish contexts. a leading article in helsingin sanomat yesterday suggested that this is the way to solve a domestic fisheries problem. we must protect our fisheries, we must do so in order to be able to live on european fish in the future too. we must do this so that in the future we too have european fishermen who provide us with good and healthy food.
in writing. when parliament voted on the future fisheries guidelines earlier this year, the result was a victory for sustainable fish stocks: the method of calculating fishing quotas was anchored to internationally accepted standards and stricter limits were set on discarded catches. the good result will be at stake this week when parliament votes on the financial framework for fisheries policy. parliament must be in favour of sustainable fishing. the worst forms of taxation of fish stocks should continue to be excluded and more money should be directed to research, data collection and monitoring. these measures are very much needed, since a recent study shows that 30 to 40 percent of the fish entering the food chain are caught illegally.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, the future of the eu depends on the citizens and on their trust. the only way to win the trust of the american people is to improve the way things are done. the european summit has often spoken of solidarity and solidarity. i would hope that the eu leaders would show solidarity in taking measures to ensure that every company and every person pays taxes in the way that is required in each country. today, it is permissible to hide taxes in another member state. i do not understand the idea of one member state stealing the tax revenues of another member state. i would hope that the eu leaders would take this matter very seriously. it would provide funds for job creation, youth issues and many other things, and it would also ensure that european prosperity is maintained and not diminished.
mr president, the report is correct in regretting that the eu does not have a clear strategy for its relations with the world. it also makes a valid point by calling the eu a reactive, rather than a proactive, international actor. obviously the eu needs to become more proactive. however, at this juncture the best we can do may be at least to make sure that the eu reacts at the right time, with efficient instruments to hand and with a long-term vision. in order to become more proactive, i think there is a need to review the eu delegations’ work in the world, in order to ensure that the union’s policies, ambitions and strategic priorities are efficiently carried out. we need to look at the role played by the eu’s special representatives to critical regions and on thematic issues. several mandates expire already next summer, and we need to overview their work. they are also changes in the global situation – iran is an example – and of course it will be necessary to consider whether there is a need for eu representation at this time. in terms of defence and security policy, i quite agree with the high representative when she takes up the question that europe actually has a lot of resources: eur 200 million. we have the second-largest army in the world, and there are capacities that, when we are on missions, we cannot carry out without depending on the us. therefore, i hope that the vilnius summit will take the question of pooling and sharing seriously, that the member states will make their preparations and that we can create some of the trust that is needed for this important task. this applies also to the defence industry. this is equally fragmented, and priorities are needed. how this can be carried out will, i hope, also be discussed at the vilnius meeting. finally, i want to deplore the fact that, with the att now being signed and the eu’s common position on the terms of arms exports being implemented, member states have actually decided to deliver weapons to syria.
mr president, i would like to thank elmar brok for his excellent report and the high representative for the interesting opening speech. i wondered if many critics of the european union's foreign and security policy listened to the very personal and eloquent speech of the sakharov prize winner aung san suu kyi yesterday. he reminded us of the importance of soft power and the importance of the european union, and he said many times that without the european union and without the international community he would not be here to receive the sakharov prize. and this soft power, based on the principles of freedom of thought, democracy, solidarity and the rule of law, is at the heart of the european union. the eu is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the eu is committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. unfortunately, this is not the case, and it is not because of the foreign affairs council or the high representative, but because of the member states, which, for example, in central asia, are able to make their own policies. and all three of these institutions need to be made really... (the president cut off the speaker)
the question of the blue card. i fully agree that piracy is unreasonable and it is wrong to keep these young and enthusiastic people imprisoned there. but, representative harms, do you really know what's going on in the arctic? do you know that russia, norway and the whole international community have been able to achieve a great deal through international agreements in the field of oil embargoes and other matters? it may be that this is just annoying russia because russia is an arctic state and they have the right to take certain measures. do you know what's going on there?
mr president, i appreciate the courage of the young greenpeace activists and i deplore the fact that russia has invented an imaginary piracy charge, which it is thankfully abandoning, and i call on russia to release these young activists. but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not confuse this with the obvious anti-russian sentiment that has emerged. russia has been a very constructive force in the arctic council. many things that were feared have already been prevented by international treaties and diplomacy. for example, the arctic council's agreement on oil control and the discussions on drilling principles are very good examples of what has already been achieved through international agreements and diplomacy. and there has not been the arctic conflict that was expected and predicted, with different forces going after minerals, oil and gas. so, in fact, arctic policy can already be shown by the way international agreements achieve something. for example, norway and russia have already concluded important agreements. instead, we can criticise the european union, which has not yet developed a proper arctic strategy. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer to the blue card question. yes, but is it not just like in child rearing or in many difficult circumstances, that is, when one party behaves well, as russia has behaved in the arctic council and seeks international solutions, then you do not support this positive side as well, as if you are pulling it to the big leagues, which gives rise to perfectly justified criticism of russia? we see this positive side in russia's behaviour in relation to arctic policy.
in this case, mr president, both individuals and industrial operators are operating within a rather fragile legislative framework. the dispute concerns the exploitation of the arctic, which does not have the same contractual basis as the antarctic, and so it is open to debate as to the degree of risk and aggressiveness with which these resources can then be exploited. so, of course, one can legitimately ask about civic activism, how far can it go without legal sanctions. it is obvious that we can all say that protest, whether verbal or on posters, is not piracy and does not require such detention or other punitive measures, but, as has been said here earlier, the matter should be dealt with properly in the context of international maritime law. the european union must also take a strong stand in this respect for both human rights and fundamental rights, so that the systems and processes are legal, proportionate and reasonable.
mr president, less than a third of the known fossil resources can be burned if we want to limit climate change to a level that societies can sustain. this was stated by the international energy agency last autumn, and the latest ipcc report, which has just been released, confirms the same. so, protesting against oil drilling in the arctic is an attempt to defend the future of all of us and the future of our children. if the charge of piracy is changed to hooliganism, russia itself will recognize as illegal the fact that it has seized a ship that was outside its territorial waters. but even the hooliganism charge with the seven-year prison sentence is disproportionate. i thought this was a peaceful protest, not a harmful one. the governments of the eu countries must support the demands of the dutch government that this matter be dealt with in a fair and legal manner and that human rights be upheld.
mr president, it is clear that the sea cannot provide us with more than its capacity, and that is why we must fight against overfishing. already 88% of the mediterranean's fish stocks are overfished. however, the introduction of transferable fishing rights is not the solution, on the contrary. this would lead to the conversion of fishing rights into a commodity. it would be irresponsible to endanger small-scale fisheries and coastal fisheries in this way. there is a significant social dimension which must not be ignored. by targeting the right actions with support from the fund, a variety of jobs in the sector can be created and the employment rate improved. the launch of start-ups has long been advocated as a way of emerging from the economic and social crisis. here we have a concrete way to start acting on what we're saying.
in writing. - the development of fish stocks in the atlantic and other deep-sea waters has been a matter of great concern for a long time. overfishing has left many species endangered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the renewal of the over-efficient fishing fleet of large fishing countries should not be supported by the common resources.
i voted in favour of this important report. this is the first but more important step towards a more open and corruption-free union. europe is in an economic crisis and, at a time when many member states are struggling to secure a minimum income for their citizens, the money of the grey economy is lying in paradise islands far beyond our reach. we cannot allow this to happen. at present, criminal activity in the union is profitable. i don't think there are thousands of international criminal organizations. our job is to make sure that this doesn't happen again. the situation is serious and so must be the means. we need effective countermeasures to strike at the heart of this kind of crime. without a coherent and effective approach, the money we have earned through hard work and sacrifice is being poured into international criminal organizations like sand through our fingers.
mr president, our partnership with our neighbours to the east and south is the primary way to promote stability, prosperity and well-being. this is particularly true of our neighbours to the east. i believe that the tremendous social leaps and reforms of the eastern european countries that joined our union in 2004 can also serve as an incentive and an example for our neighbours today. i reject the idea that the european union and russia are in competition for each other's interests in eastern europe and central asia. the neighbourhood policy is not about confrontation, but about sharing and exchanging common experiences. the creation of crossborder links and forms of cooperation is not the exclusive prerogative of the member states of our union. it is an important form of foreign policy to ensure long-term stability, both within and outside the union's borders.
mr president, i voted in favour of this important resolution. common practices on asylum have been our long-term objective. the common european asylum system is a historic achievement. but this achievement is of little consequence if it remains only words on paper and a beautiful theoretical idea. and this is what happens when member states do not comply with their obligations. and that's what it looks like now. the council must act, but the member states must also take responsibility. now is the time for solidarity. solidarity is needed not only between member states but also between individual countries. respect for fundamental and human rights is at the heart of our union and should not be ignored in any situation, especially in times of great and acute emergency. this also applies, in particular, to the principle of non-refoulement.
mr. president, with the revelation of the nsa's involvement in the united states, the western democracies are now in the midst of perhaps their deepest crisis. the very things we thought we had, the privacy and the freedom, are now in jeopardy. we're living in a kind of digital 1930s. the united states and its allies are deeply involved in the spy machine. the rest of us are humble subcontractors and targets of espionage. decades of cooperation in the european union - let alone nato - therefore seem to have no meaning. the suspension decision is a serious matter, but so are the alleged violations. in this situation, a thorough investigation cannot be omitted. president barack obama's response to the revelation of french phone hacking, "everyone is spying on everyone", is not satisfactory. where are the barricades and the protest bells of the politicians against this disgusting activity?
mr president, elmar brok deserves credit for his work, but the european union's foreign and security policy has been more reactive than creative and proactive. effective foreign policy requires political leadership, vision, direction. it is our common task to ensure that our union operates consistently and efficiently, otherwise we will be drifting in the wind. the world has changed as we enter this decade, and the eu's foreign policy objectives and instruments must adapt to this change. this requires a renewed approach, involvement and accountability. the backbone of our values is the rule of law, pluralistic democracy, social justice, the fight against poverty and human rights. this will also apply to all our strategic partnerships. we must be flexible in the face of new threats and challenges.
i voted in favour of this important report. although we talk a lot about the electronic single market here, unfortunately it is still a work in progress. consumers are still not able to enjoy all the benefits that a common telemarketing market would bring, for example. in the reform of the regulatory system for electronic communications, we must pay particular attention to the position and rights of consumers. in the electronic communications market, consumers are increasingly faced with the choice between services bundled with a variety of complex contracts. not all consumers have the necessary knowledge to compare such contracts. and that is why it is so important that we oblige, for example, operators to provide consumers with the information they need before the contract is concluded in a simple and easily understandable form, so that even the most disadvantaged consumers can understand it.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner vassiliou for his good initiative and for the very good background work in the commission. it provided a broad basis within the commission for doubling the programme's budget. it's a very big and valuable thing at a time like this. the rapporteur, doris pack, who is the chairman of our committee, also carried this programme forward very well. i can say that, thanks to the influence of these two strong cultural figures, we have a very good programme for europe. erasmus+ is a good time to be here. it is a success story, and it will be a success story in the future. it is very important to invest in young people, to invest in innovation, to invest in research and to invest in mobility, now that we are in an economic recession in europe. we need to look to the future and build a bridge to the future, as this programme does. i am also glad that sport has had a part to play in this. it is also very important to take care of the whole.
mr president, i would like to begin my speech on the creative europe programme by thanking commissioner vassiliou and also rapporteur costa. it is very important that such a programme has been drawn up, combining both the cultural programme and the creative area programme. the linking of these programmes allows a larger amount of money to be spent on practical measures. it is very important that we involve the european taxpayers in the development of europe and the creation of a europe of creativity. we need this action, because the creative economy is a growth economy and europe is known for this cultural diversity, this european cultural mosaic. it must be exploited as a cultural heritage in a sustainable way and also marketed in the right way. there's a huge potential here. we know that the creative economy is one of the strong growth areas at the moment and this programme will support this growth.
in writing. this plenary session can rightly be called a 'super session' as so many important legislative initiatives, long negotiated by parliament and the council, are being adopted this very week. as part of the agreement reached on the multiannual financial framework, we are voting on a number of programmes which have a tangible impact on the daily lives of european citizens and businesses. one of these is the europe of networks. a networked europe is an important part of the eu2020 objectives. in total, the facility is allocated eur 50 billion over the next six years. i only regret that the financing under the connecting europe facility is very strongly focused on transport - while only one fifth of the funding is allocated to energy networks. one of the key issues for europe's energy future is the renewal of our continent's outdated grid structure. there are few large cross-border transmission networks in europe. only 4% of the electricity grid currently crosses borders. in addition, networks have been built for large, concentrated facilities. in order to increase the share of renewable energy sources significantly in the coming years, a renewal of the grid structure is essential. renewable energy will be needed to transport long distances. the current grid structure based on alternating current is very poorly suited to these purposes. the ac network loses significant amounts of electricity over long distances and would therefore not be cost-effective or reliable. to make the transition to renewable energy sources, europe needs a high-voltage, direct current grid linking the whole region, with a maximum power loss of approximately 3% for every 1000 km. it is precisely for such projects, which benefit the whole of europe, that common money should be used.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the citizens' europe programme is a continuation of the current programme and i am also the rapporteur for the previous programme. despite its relatively modest budget, the programme is a highly visible european union programme. the main objective of the programme is to bring the european union closer to citizens by increasing their awareness and understanding of the union and promoting european citizenship. the programme also aims to strengthen the memory of heritage and to increase the capacity of citizens to participate at different levels of the union. we can argue that all eu programmes are for its citizens, but this is the only programme that focuses exclusively on promoting these objectives at european level. this is a particularly timely programme in the european year of citizens. citizens make up europe and build its future. hundreds of projects, from friendship cities to different brainstorming platforms, have benefited from this programme each year and i am very pleased that this is possible in the future. i myself have always stressed the importance of building small projects in connection with this programme. it is important to highlight the importance of grassroots and bottom-up initiatives and issues raised by citizens that are important to them. i myself believe in creativity and innovation, and we and the commission must strive to foster new ideas and projects, because that is where something new and unique can come from, and that is what we need in europe today and at this moment. as for the budget for the programme, i would have wished it to have reached the level of eur 229 million initially proposed by the commission for the next programming period, but it has now had to be cut, mainly due to pressure from the council, and the budget will be around eur 185 million. i hope, of course, that this money will still be used to promote good activities throughout europe and, above all, as i have already said, to activate the grassroots level. perhaps one day we will reach the point where the budget for this programme is one euro per eu citizen. this would certainly also increase the effectiveness of the grassroots activities. it is regrettable that we have had to fight a little bit within the eu institutions about the legal basis of this programme. although the programme is broadly similar to the current programme, the commission made a small but significant change to the proposal by stating that article 352 is the sole legal basis for the programme. parliament also believes that article 167 would have been a very relevant article, but i do not want to start again on this subject in this speech. we may disagree with the council and the commission on the legal basis for a long time to come, but one thing is certain: the public is not interested in this legal debate and now we must concentrate on completing the programme and looking to the future. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their interest and support. i would also like to thank the commission for the good cooperation, even though we had some differences of opinion on the legal basis. in any case, the most important thing now is to make this programme work, to make it impact across europe and thereby also to move european people at grassroots level.
the rapporteur. - mr president, thank you for your comments. i must say at this point that i noticed that some members were familiar with the programme, others perhaps only used the statistical section. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european union. i hope you will take a look at it. member batten, you will see that this is not a threat to british independence in any way. on the contrary, it also creates good projects for the people of the united kingdom. as for mr zuber's speech, this is not a pro-nazi or pro-nazi programme. on the contrary, we are very strongly defending european values and we remember that it was fascism, nazism and totalitarian communism that trampled europe down. we have emerged from these horrors and have been able to build a democratic europe in which human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law are at the core and democracy is important and must be defended. i would also like to thank the chairman of our committee, doris pack, for all her help and good cooperation. finally, i would like to say to the commission that, as the commissioner is well aware, we had the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament present and three different lawyers had three different views on the legal basis. this suggests that we may still have some work to do here to clarify the legal basis. i shall make a brief statement tomorrow, in the context of the vote, on this legal basis and how we saw it and how the legal service of this parliament saw it. thank you for this conversation. it is important to put this report into practice and to vote on it... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, in my capacity as rapporteur on the europe for citizens programme 2014-2020, i wish to reaffirm parliamentʼs conviction that this regulation pursues also the objective linked to culture and history and enshrined in article 167 of the tfeu. therefore, a dual legal base entailing the ordinary legislative procedure should have been applied to this dossier. the only reason parliament gave up its positions on the dual legal basis, and hence its claim to codecision, and accepted the consent procedure in accordance with the commission proposal based on article 352, was its desire to avoid complete procedural deadlock and the consequent delay in the entry into force of the programme. i also wish to draw attention to parliamentʼs determination not to allow such a situation to arise again. i suggest that this statement be annexed to the legislative resolution.
in writing. − today we approved the new long-term budget (mff) for 2014-2020. the way to this decision has been both long and winding, but nevertheless, we can be quite satisfied with the result. the new long-term budget is a classic compromise yet represents a new trend, as it provides significantly more funds for research, innovation and infrastructure – areas with potential to create growth and a more competitive eu. at the same time, the budget in total is lower than the previous one. eu has managed to lower its costs and still compile a budget with focus on growth-generating programmes and investments that will benefit europe as a whole. the new long-term budget is more flexible. unlike under the previous budget, unused budget funds may now be used the following year. therefore eu can respond quickly to unexpected needs, which is crucial in a financial framework that extends over a period of seven years. the european parliament managed to push through its demand for appointing a working group, which will focus on own resources. this is inevitable in order to get out of the current situation whereby member states are divided into net contributors and net beneficiaries.
mr president, the european union's student exchange programmes, and erasmus in particular, are the eu's greatest success stories, the very crown jewels of the union. over the past 25 years, more than three million students have been involved in erasmus exchanges, with a total of over 4 000 higher education institutions from 33 countries taking part in the programme. these figures are staggering and in practice have meant a lot of cooperation, exchange of experience and learning between the universities and the young people involved in the exchange programme themselves. this is european integration at its finest! erasmus is like making the vision of the eu a reality. it should be remembered that the eu also funds exchange programmes in basic, vocational and adult education, alongside exchange programmes for higher education institutions. they also provide an equal opportunity for the exchange of experience and learning from others. i am very pleased that despite the difficult economic situation we were able to secure the funding for this programme that it deserved.
mr president, europe's cultural diversity is a wealth that must be cherished. it also poses specific challenges for the mobility of cultural operators, products and productions, and for cultural consumers. it is good that the creative europe programme is seeking to further strengthen the capacity and conditions for cross-border activity of the sector, including through the new loan instrument. it is also important that the programme aims at a broader international dimension by opening up cooperation opportunities, for example, to the countries of europe's eastern and southern neighbourhood. it is also important to highlight the role of culture and the creative sectors in creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in europe. the programme's objectives are very ambitious. the programme budget is also expected to be very positive in order to achieve the ambitious objectives. so, all in all, i am very pleased with the outcome of this programme.
i am speaking as my own group's spokesman on this report. unfortunately, the council's reluctance to consult parliament has been striking. it is a pity for european democracy that parliament could only reject or approve the programme, because strengthening democracy in the eu is the very core of the union's work and is within the power of parliament to decide. in any event, the programme now adopted will improve and increase the information of citizens and help them to concentrate on common european issues. i am also pleased that the programme has been given a better geographical balance. the european union is the union of all europeans and therefore all its activities must be open to equal participation from the northernmost village in finland to the southernmost village in cyprus. it's just that the budget for the show is really disappointing. it's getting way too modest for the show's appeal.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, with the commission's proposal, the objective of european territorial cooperation is now for the first time incorporated into cohesion policy as an objective in its own right and by means of a regulation of its own. these european regional cooperation programmes specifically support the integration of border regions and wider cooperation areas, the creation and strengthening of networks between regions and cities. the european added value of these programmes is that each programme and each project financed involves regions and partners from two or more different countries. there are also several good examples in this period, such as projects for the construction of high-speed fibre-based telecommunications networks in sparsely populated areas or hospital cooperation, for example, at the border between spain and france. discussions with the council and the commission on the eag regulation started in november 2012 in our country on the basis of the mandate of the committee on regional development of july 2012. we found a compromise after ten trilogues and several technical meetings. the final trilogy was held on 6 may and was subsequently finalised by written procedure. the results of the negotiations on the eaggf regulation are as follows. one of the main objectives was to increase the funding allocated to eag programmes. the committee was ambitious in proposing that european regional cooperation should account for 7% of total cohesion funding. unfortunately, we knew that the eaggf council would be an easy target for cutting back, and we are trying to show our support for these programmes, which are of great importance to europe, with this ambitious objective. unfortunately, despite all this hard work, the debate on financing with the council was not productive, although the matter was on the table until early autumn, also by the president of our committee. for certain articles, such as article 3 (scope of application of the eagf programmes) and article 4 (financing of the eagf programmes), the council's negotiating mandate was largely linked to the mff decisions, which was a slight disappointment for us from the point of view of the implementation of the codecision procedure. the funding for the eag programmes for the current period is about eur 9 billion and we hope that the member states and regions will use this money effectively in the coming period. as regards thematic concentration, i welcome the outcome of the negotiations on the regulation, which now allows sufficient flexibility for crossborder, interstate and interregional programmes, taking into account the needs of multinational cooperation programmes, while maintaining the element of concentration: 80% of these resources will be allocated to four thematic objectives, allowing the remaining resources to be used freely. the flexibility of the eag is also provided by the possibility of transferring 15% of the funds between crossborder and transnational programmes. this possibility has already been used in several member states during the current season. the commission proposes that the programme areas should remain roughly the same as in the current period. however, the commission should take into account adjustments to ensure coherence between programme areas and take into account the lessons learned from previous programmes and, where appropriate, macro-regional and marine strategies. this regulation also has a lot to do with the much-talked-about programme bureaucracy. we have tried to reduce this, for example by extending the deadline for submitting implementation reports. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues, the chairman of the committee on regional development and the active negotiating team who have been very supportive in these negotiations.
mr president, commissioner, these cohesion policy funds and policies have the potential to add value to national policies and thereby to boost growth and job creation. it is a pity that here in this chamber too, most of the debate has been centred on the fact that we are arguing about percentages, numbers and conditionality. i believe, however, that we all want to see these funds used more efficiently and effectively. simplification, simplification, faster deployment of resources and a variety of new emphases in terms of content have been achieved. for example, the social fund has been particularly keen to focus on young people and also on combating poverty. the substantive changes that have been made are certainly as important as the battle over these percentages. in the social fund, it is competing for around 1.9% between parliament and the council. however, it would be extremely important that we finally get the decisions done, because the preparation of the next programming period at national level has been slowed down and the smooth continuation of work has therefore been jeopardised by the fact that we have not reached an agreement. it is clear that the european jobs of the future will require new skills, new capacities and also a capacity for mobility. it is with these funds that we can also improve these things.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank everyone for this debate and for the views they have expressed on future cohesion policy. i believe that this debate has demonstrated and will further strengthen the value of cohesion policy for europe as a whole. as the previous speaker has said, there are also many sceptics who doubt and criticise european cohesion policy. i believe that in the coming period, and within the framework of this legislation, we will be able to strengthen cohesion policy and make it even more effective, so that we can create new jobs throughout europe. i would urge the member states to be very active in order to ensure that the partnership agreements are also put forward and completed. on the other hand, i also hope that the member states and regions will be active and that the new programmes will be launched in good time. i would also like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation during this long process, and the members of the commission and the officials who negotiated in the council for their excellent cooperation. i believe that cohesion policy will help us to make europe even better in the next seven years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs and the afco committee on their excellent report. the madness of the european parliament travelling from brussels to strasbourg and back twelve times a year is a mark on the whole of the european union in the eyes of the public. for the atmosphere, this means about 20 000 tonnes of co2 emissions per year. the same emissions are generated if 10,000 finns travel to the canary islands and back every year. this absurdity is costing taxpayers over 200 million euros. it's taking thousands of people's time that we should be using for something useful. the arrangement must have seemed justified when the european parliament was a debate group with six or 12 member states. since then, both parliament and the eu have changed radically. we have to put an end to this nonsense. it is high time that parliament itself decided on its own seat.
mr president, once again we have come here to strasbourg after many trips to strasbourg, where the premises are too small and the rush is always immense, when too many things have to be condensed into one week of voting. again, we sit here in the evening, talking, when no meaningful time is available. this is absurd, this is unreasonable, this is intolerable. we are trying to save money, but the most obvious form of waste is still going on, with more than 10% of parliament's annual budget being wasted on the provision of two seats. we in the european parliament do not want this and it is sad that we cannot decide for ourselves where we want to meet. we're like schoolchildren, assigned to school and to the order of reading. but it's not just about us. our visits to strasbourg have become a symbol of the inefficiency of the eu for the citizens, and the end of this expensive and polluting tourism is the most common wishes that ordinary citizens express to me.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, international finance markets are developing fast, in terms of both structures and product innovations. people are increasingly investing their money in structured products, and there is a risk of not having a level playing field with regard to information on the consumer side, on the one hand, and on the product producer side, on the other. it is also really difficult for retail investors to compare for themselves different kinds of product and assess the compatibility of those products. this is purely an information issue. the other issue is the safety of products. in the financial crisis, people ended up losing their pension savings and quite substantial amounts of money, due to ill-planned investments and ill-planned products. that is why it is of the utmost importance that we correct this in the regulation. following this regulation on packaged retail investments, what we need is a better understanding of the complexity of this field, the unification of different regulations and better comparability across all structured products. in future we will also need a level playing field and comparability between simple products and retail products that are structured and planned for retail investors. this is also something i would like to see the commission starting to work on. finally, i would like to emphasise that risk per se is not bad for the consumer, because risk is quite often linked to higher returns. often the problem is the high costs that are embedded in structured products. this is another issue which parliament raised in its work on the subject.
madam president, as chair of the iran delegation, and together with the chair of the mashreq delegation, i strongly condemn the terrorist act which took place in beirut yesterday. we will be supporting a request for a full investigation into this incident and would like to convey our condolences to any innocent citizens involved in this attack.
i am not voting for the report, mr president, because i do not think that it is in line with the approach to building genuine equality in europe. the principle of equality is one of the union's most important fundamental values and must be defended. but do statutory gender quotas actually promote equality between the sexes? the aim is noble, but the means are dubious. in the allocation of management positions and the recruitment of employees, all factors other than gender should be emphasised in horizontal boxes. that would be true equality. the number of women on boards of listed companies in finland has tripled in the last ten years. there are no statutory gender quotas, but the finnish model is based on self-regulation of business and it works. i agree with mrs corazza bildt in her speech just now.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the outcome of the negotiations. i am very pleased that the ban on the first group of refugees has not been re-introduced in the final agreement. i also think it is essential that the possibility of a multiannual application was provided. during the next payment period, farmers will have to submit an application every year as before, but the applications will be pre-filled on the basis of old data. in practice, the intention is that the farmer is only responsible for reporting changes. i hope that the reforms to the direct payments package will rationalize the requirements for farmers in a better way than they currently are.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the completion of the cap has been a long process, which this vote has sealed. the content of the negotiated outcome is a multifaceted and comprehensive package, which includes all the reforms that are most important for the finnish farmer. the national share of coupled payments remained sufficiently high and the relief granted to the north of the 62nd parallel for two of the original three crop requirements was retained in the negotiated final text. in the light of these considerations, we can say that parliament took a stand for farmers in the northern regions and we were appalled by the outcome of the commission's proposal, which was clearly in a better direction.
mr president, the european parliament has shown in the debate on this cap agreement that the citizens of the member states finally have a say in decisions on agricultural policy. parliament has considerably improved the commission's proposal in favour of producers. under difficult conditions, food production would have been faced with fatal difficulties, according to the commission's proposal. we cannot go on thinking that farming and producing food will be made more difficult. it is therefore very gratifying that, especially with this report, the right of southern finland to national aid is also part of the eu's common agricultural policy. if, in the next round, at the end of this decade, we can get incentive systems in a position where entrepreneurs are more motivated to try their hand at agriculture, then our policies are on the right track.
mr president, the monthly pilgrimage of parliament, the pilgrimage from brussels to strasbourg, is a symbol of the eu's follies, waste of money and terrible carbon footprint. it will be used as a weapon by the national populists in the european elections next spring. the citizens of strasbourg think that the rally is a waste of money. have we stepped beyond the absurd yet? the idea of meeting in strasbourg is a beautiful one. symbols are important, of course, but there are limits to everything. the european parliament is no longer just a symbol. it is a real power, thanks to the lisbon treaty, and is finding its strength as a democratic counterpart to the commission and the council of ministers. it must be close to the organs it's supposed to be guarding. i'll end my speech with a cato senior. the european parliament is the only institution in the world which is not a member of the european union.
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? let me begin by congratulating the european union on horizon 2020. we have an exceptionally good program here. it is common knowledge that the member states invest in research and development, but it is also common knowledge that the countries which invest the most are the ones which are able to get out of the economic crisis faster, as is the case now and as has been the case in the past. this programme acts as a lever for the national research and development programmes. but to achieve the best possible results, there must be a balance between applied research and basic research. it is also important that there is a functioning social structure around basic and applied research. discussions of innovation therefore speak of absorption capacity, i.e. the ability of firms and society to recognise the value of new innovations and to recognise the value of the flow of scientific information. we can only achieve this together, not by national political action. thank you so much. thank you.
mr president, a few remarks on european competitiveness and entrepreneurship. firstly, all the tables show that the commission mainly listens to large companies when it prepares directives. we must change this, and we must also listen to small and mediumsized enterprises. their needs are often secondary and many times this listening to big companies creates unnecessary bureaucracy for small companies. secondly, we must put an end to tax evasion. at present, large multinational companies can evade taxes either through their own branches or through banks. this leads to the fact that a large company and a small company cannot compete on equal terms. small businesses don't want to and can't avoid taxes, but many, not all, but many large businesses do. this is one reason why there are not enough new small businesses in europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am very pleased that this house is contributing to the european council on defence with a strong report on the common security and defence policy (csdp). the report we will be voting on tomorrow is very important. it states bluntly, and with good reason, that there is not much political will in the eu to make use of the csdp. the capability development process failed, and the capability shortcomings are enormous. we continue to spend eur 200 billion each year on defence – more than russia, japan and china together. the report points out the possibilities for pooling and sharing and for increasing the visibility and effectiveness of the csdp, and also highlights the question of battle groups. however, i would like to pick up on three issues where our positions are different from those taken by the rapporteur. we are against the use of the eu budget for defence research and development and the costs of the defence agency. we think that it is not budgetary constraints which make european defence so problematic, but rather the very inefficient use of the resources we have. we have far too much duplication and lack of strategic vision for european defence. we are also against the european programme on drones. there are too many serious ethical human-rights-related and security-related questions involved that necessitate political deliberation. we reject the idea that the csdp should be developed towards the protection of external borders or energy security or towards cyber-defence. that said, we are in favour of more cooperation and pooling and sharing between member states. we call for more measures that create trust and complementarity between member states. we are in favour of the introduction of strict and transparent market rules when it comes to procurement, and also the transfer of technologies. at the same time, we reject the idea that the defence market should aim to create jobs. last but not least, we are in favour of the eu having a strong role in conflict prevention, mediation and civil crisis management. the debate on european defence is surrounded by grave misconceptions. one misconception is that we can rely on the national capabilities of member states or nato. another misconception is that we can create european defence by simply piling up national capabilities on top of one another. in reality, our current defence structures are inefficient, duplicate one another and are highly fragmented. i hope that the european council will deal with these problems and i am glad that parliament has taken up this question at an early stage.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their excellent reports. in the koppan report i support in particular the idea of the eu's strategic autonomy. if the eu is to be a major player, even locally or in its neighbourhood, and even globally, this perspective must be kept constantly in mind. the gahler report rightly points out that dependence on technology and industrial equipment from other countries is an extreme risk in a crisis situation. without our own defence industry and defence industrial base we cannot achieve the strategic position and independence we desire. we must constantly remind the eu member states of the cuts in defence spending and warn them of the consequences. many other countries are now increasing their defence spending, and if history has taught us anything, it is that the future is always open, and at worst, one must be prepared.
mr president, commissioner, the committee has done a good job under the rapporteur's leadership, because the european jobs of the future will require new skills and a capacity for mobility. at the moment, only a little over 2% of us europeans live and work in a foreign member state. the economic crisis and structural factors such as globalisation, technological progress, an ageing population and the shift towards a more energy-efficient economy are contributing to the rapid transformation of european labour markets. rapid change is leading to a lack of real skills in some sectors, while unemployment is still high across the eu. to provide employment opportunities for all and to support economic competitiveness and sustainability, europe needs skilled, innovative and open-minded people. i believe that this programme for social change and innovation, which combines the three previous programmes, will be better able to respond to these new challenges in the labour market. i think it is important that the former eures network, for example, should continue to be developed under a pilot project, which was the first eures workshop in the previous programme. it has specifically encouraged many young people to work abroad. it is hoped that this new programme will continue to meet these challenges.
mr president, commissioner, when we talk about the social dimension of emu, i think we should bear in mind that tax-financed social policy and, for example, unemployment protection schemes are a matter for the member states. in the midst of the economic crisis, structural reforms should not be delayed by the introduction of income transfers between member states, whether they are called the european unemployment insurance scheme or the automatic stabiliser. the commissioner also stressed that the eu should be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat it. you said that the eu does not yet have competence in this area. do you really want to change the treaties so that the eu can decide on wage formation? this is clearly contrary to the freedom of agreement in the nordic labour market, for example. the eu should have no competence in the light of the existing treaties in the unemployment insurance model which is intrinsically linked to wage formation. finally, the indicators to monitor the situation in the member states. i do not think that anyone has anything against them, but it must be borne in mind that such indicators, which take only individual figures, very easily overlook the broad range of universal social services, and that we must therefore be careful in our interpretation.
mr president, the annual report of the european court of auditors is an important document. it is, in fact, a very important document if it is also learned. lesson number one: the margin of error in payments was far too high last year, at 4.8 percent. the error rate has increased every year since 2009. the error rate for the expenditure category for rural development, fisheries and environment and health was almost 8%. lesson number two: it's not a lack of knowledge. in agriculture and regional policy, among other areas, the member states' authorities had, in most cases, sufficient information to correct those errors. at the same time, it is good to remember that fraud is not the norm and that farmers, for example, are not to blame for errors. lesson number three: there are too many regulations and they are too complicated. they must be simplified and the value of the money must be increased. i mean, let's learn from this. we in parliament must try to clarify decisions. above all, the member states must act and put an end to this misuse of taxpayers' money. it would be reasonable to have a council representing the member states here today, but it does not appear to be the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. eu citizens have a right to know where and how their money is being spent. they can be used for many good things, but they certainly need to be used more effectively.
in writing. − the epp group was successful in influencing the content of the horizon 2020 framework programme. for the first time in the history of the union, a special subsidy fund for small and medium-sized enterprises was created, which in turn helps europe to grow faster and create new jobs. in addition, a number of different instruments were agreed to support the access to finance of smes. at the same time, these instruments encourage private investors to invest in europe's small and medium-sized enterprises, which is why horizon 2020 is estimated to create more new jobs than any previous eu programme. a concrete example of reducing support red tape is the common rules for the allocation of support for several eu funds under horizon 2020. i also think it is important that in future the period between the closing of the call for proposals and the decision on funding should not exceed eight months as a general rule. the commission proposed a longer period, but the epp got its way. the development of innovations into products is promoted by a completely new support model, fast-track to innovation. the aid is intended for innovative smaller projects that are very close to the market launch of the product. it can be applied for at any time of the year, applications are evaluated three times a year and the time between application and receipt of the aid is limited to 6 months. it significantly reduces the threshold for smaller players to apply for eu support, reduces support bureaucracy and increases confidence in the common european process. we have been very successful as a parliament in our aims of supporting entrepreneurship, skills and the creation of new job opportunities. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
smes account for 70% of jobs and account for as much as 80% of the turnover of companies in the eu. the cosme programme is very important. it's great that it's going on. the member states also have a very important role to play. the national decisions they take are ultimately key to the way tax policies are made in the member states, how attempts are encouraged and enabled, and whether the decisions we take are actually implemented in the member states. this report is helpful and its adoption was important, but we still have to do much more to improve the position of smes. they make us stand or fall. only 37% of europeans want to be an entrepreneur or become one at all. this is simply not enough. at this rate, we won't have enough work in the future.
mr president, this has been very interesting and instructive. i gave my support to this motion for a resolution. the union must strike a balance between economic and social objectives. social justice is a prerequisite for putting our economy on a sustainable footing. but we have to first identify and then acknowledge social ills in order to get to work. the scoreboard on employment and social indicators is therefore necessary. the role of monitoring is very important here. we must ensure that the data collected also cover the employment and social situations as fully as possible. the indicators proposed in the commission communication are unfortunately not sufficient for this purpose. fortunately, the resolution has addressed this issue. the fight against poverty is our duty. the commission must also devise a strategy to eradicate child poverty. gender should also be taken into account in the indicators.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, yesterday young malala reminded us that respect for human rights should be at the heart of the european union and the world. today, once again, we see that when the situation in bangladesh is very tense and violent, the greatest victims of tension are precisely the defenders of human rights. bangladesh is a member of the international criminal court and has a death penalty. this is not acceptable. i think we must condemn the death penalty and demand respect for human rights at all levels, at the commission, the foreign affairs council and parliament. it is also time to make every effort at all levels to encourage the necessary investigations to be launched and to put an end to the ill-treatment, torture and killing of people in bangladesh.
for the alde group mr president, the eu must do everything possible to ensure that the forthcoming elections in bangladesh are free and fair. it is important to ensure that democracy can be achieved, at least in this respect. the government of bangladesh must also strive to achieve human rights for all its citizens. the most important thing from a human rights point of view is that the death penalty must be abolished. it is a degrading and degrading and totally inhuman way of dealing with things. all punishments shall be subject to the absolute prohibition of torture and inhuman treatment of any kind. the judicial system must strive to be impartial in all situations, aiming at equity and humane punishment in all cases of dispute. the general social debate and political dialogue between all national circles also provide a basis on which to begin to build democracy and the emergence of a democratic society in bangladesh.
mr president, commissioner, the human rights situation in bangladesh is not good enough, and the upcoming elections will only increase tensions. human rights watch says that so far this year, security forces have killed 150 people and more than 2,000 people have been injured in strikes and other protests. the arrest of human rights activists and the death sentences are also condemnable. elections will indeed be held in january 2014 and history shows that political violence and clashes always increase during the last months of government, and this time as well. tensions between the main parties are deeply rooted in bangladesh's history and there is also a danger that these unrest will further undermine the potential of bangladesh's industry and also its livelihoods. the main parties have a long and contentious history in a country where power has always shifted between them.
mr president, violence in bangladesh has only escalated since the parliamentary elections. the success of free and fair elections is the only vital condition for the democratic development of this country. elections do not give you the right to kill or imprison opposition candidates. the strikes have now paralyzed the bangladeshi society. the crimes and injustices of the past are not overcome in bangladesh, and national reconciliation is therefore essential. bangladesh must answer why human rights defenders are threatened, tortured and killed. all deaths must be investigated and those responsible must be brought to justice. the death penalty must not be allowed. the european union and the international community must do everything possible to prevent the death penalty in bangladesh.
mr president, bangladesh has shown its tolerance and the cooperation between the eu and bangladesh has been good. however, now the increase in politically-oriented violence and arrests from many different quarters, as well as pressure from civil rights activists, journalists and lawyers, have undermined the good cooperation that had been achieved and, of course, have affected the atmosphere before the elections. the poorer working population in bangladesh in particular has suffered not only from the fragile economy and major factory accidents but also from strikes that have brought the country and its economy to a standstill. it is now particularly important to focus on measures to improve everyday life and to restore the climate in which democratic elections can be held. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the climate for the effective functioning of civil society must be restored and the democratic character of all political parties participating in elections must be monitored.
for the alde group mr president, it is true that the situation of migrant workers in qatar is very serious and needs to be addressed. qatar is hosting the soccer world cup, and that's one reason why there are so many foreign workers there. it would be desirable that, in organising such a great event as the football world cup, the grassroots action should also be ethical and in keeping with the spirit of sport. unfortunately, that's not the case this time. there's been talk of modern slavery here, but i don't know if slavery can be modern anymore. it's a return to something in the past, to a time that we should be free of. what can the european parliament and the european union do? we have many partnerships with qatar and in this respect we must demand that they respect human rights. i understand that when a country is an islamic country, their conception of human rights is different from ours. nevertheless, the european union has a duty to bring human rights there and to promote them, and thus to ensure that this catastrophe can be saved in this respect.
mr president, mr commissioner, the arrests of european citizens and the deaths of people in unclear circumstances have caused the european parliament to express concern about the course of events. the charges against these two detainees are serious, terrorism and conspiracy to commit murder. however, the detention has already been ongoing since 2009. the european parliament wants these people to finally receive a fair and impartial trial and to have a proper investigation into the course of these cases. the left here has been puzzled by the fact that the parliament is defending those accused of terrorism. mr president, we have here on several occasions, in the context of human rights discussions, pleaded for the rights of persons accused of terrorism, among other things. we have never condoned any criminal acts, if any, in the course of an investigation, but we do defend the right of the individual to a fair and impartial trial. this is the question, mr. klute.
in writing. the species living on the sea floor are particularly vulnerable to overfishing. they are slow to reach reproductive capacity and, once they do, do not reproduce fast enough to sustain the stock. the small shark species living on the sea floor in particular are in danger of extinction, and that is why today there was a proposal on the table not only for trawling but also for adding these species to the list of vulnerable species. in addition to fish, many coral species suffer from bottom trawling. the commission's proposal and the scientific evidence support a ban on bottom trawling. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial fishing' to cover the whole of the eu. this argument is well illustrated by the long line of the eu's fisheries policy as a whole, which is to balance the interests of fishermen with the sustainability of fish stocks: is the livelihood of today's fishermen being driven at the expense of the future fish stocks and the livelihoods of fishermen? the argument of economic losses is not very credible in the case of bottom trawling, especially when only 1% of the fish caught in the eu comes from deeper waters. an alternative to trawling is fishing with multiple hooks, and norway, for example, uses this method alone for deep-sea fishing.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, two years ago parliament reacted to the fisheries partnership agreement with morocco. i am sorry to say that the commission did not take note of the very key points behind parliament’s reaction. while the new agreement constitutes an improvement from an economic point of view, there are only cosmetic changes when it comes to human rights and the right to self-determination of the sahrawi people. under international law, western sahara is occupied. that is a fact. civilised policies therefore exclude western sahara when concluding agreements with morocco, since any other action would constitute a breach of international law. we should do the same. the commission says that the new agreement will address our concerns regarding human rights, but without the right to self-determination no human rights are respected. the eu must be consistent when we speak of our core values. there cannot be a ‘but’ after human rights and international law – ‘we are for human rights “but”’ – therefore i have asked my group to vote against the agreement. and i am sorry, commissioner damanaki, but you might still experience the shameful day when the european court of justice declares this agreement null and void.
i would like to thank mrs lívia járóka, the president of the commission, for her excellent report, which highlights the situation of the roma people and in particular the situation of women and girls. women and girls are vulnerable to so-called double discrimination, as they are discriminated against not only because of their ethnic background but also because of their gender. the report makes a good point of the importance of education and health care, as well as of social housing projects, which, for example, in my own country, finland, produced excellent results in the 1960s and 1970s, when they were able to integrate the roma population well into the mainstream. the starting point, however, is that individuals must be provided with identity papers to avoid being exposed to human trafficking and various mafia-led begging organizations. i know that there are still eu countries that do not grant papers to all roma. it is also important that roma people themselves can decide their own policy, which concerns them, i.e. they must be involved in the making of roma policy.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank rapporteur elisabetta gardin and the other negotiators for their good work. the decision now before us on the union's emergency services mechanism brings clear improvements to this 15-year-old form of cooperation. the budget will be increased, but above all, more attention will be paid to disaster prevention and preparedness. this work should also be seen as part of preparing for climate change. for example, according to munich re, the insurance claims for extreme cases are clearly increasing. unfortunately, floods, storms, and wildfires, caused and exacerbated by heat and drought, are becoming more common. for example, this autumn several severe storms have hit northern europe and many people have died. good emergency preparedness can prevent personal injury and minimize financial loss. the present decision also encourages member states to identify the risks of industrial accidents and to take action to prevent them. this is particularly important in the mining and chemical industries. the toxins released by industrial accidents do not respect national boundaries, but are carried from one country to another by winds and waters. we still remember the collapse of the dam at the waste dump of an aluminium plant in hungary three years ago, which flooded two villages with red corrosive sludge. this disaster too might have been prevented if the inspection of the waste-water reservoirs had been in the right hands. this example also illustrates that the prevention of major accidents and the minimisation of disasters is not only a matter for rescue services but also involves, for example, the licensing and inspection of chemical plants and mining facilities. ladies and gentlemen, this report deserves our full support.
mr president, on the order of votes today the list contains the resolution determining criteria when recovered paper ceases to be waste. this is a rule 88 procedure, which means that a qualified majority is needed for a parliament decision. i do not therefore think it right that it be placed as the last item on the voting list. it should be placed after the other legislative votes, which means it should be placed after the groote report on back-loading. i propose that the resolution on the end-of-waste criteria for paper is voted after the groote report.
in writing. - i voted against in 2011 and i voted against today. the protocol contributes to the continuing international legal uncertainty in western sahara. the fisheries protocol has a fundamental flaw: it forgets that the european union cannot ignore respect for international law and human rights obligations. even if the renewed agreement would benefit europe economically more than before, the most important thing for me, at least, is respect for the right of self-determination of the saharawi people and the unambiguous position of the international court of justice and the un. the european union shall not conclude trade or other agreements with third countries which are at least questionable from the point of view of international law. we must not compromise our values and principles! morocco has full rights to negotiate and conclude trade agreements on its own territory. the territory of western sahara and the territorial waters thereof are not part of morocco. it is important that cooperation between the eu and morocco continues and is strengthened. i hope, however, that the union will not sign an agreement which ignores the rights of the saharawi. it is not enough for the fisheries agreement to promise, on the surface, geographical balance and regular reporting, if it simultaneously ignores the wishes and interests of the saharawi people. the sahrawi people must be able to benefit from the exploitation of the natural resources of their territory.
in writing. − i deeply regret that we today accepted a fisheries partnership agreement with morocco, which does not exclude the occupied western saharan waters. i do not have anything against a fisheries partnership agreement with morocco, but it is my strong opinion that the european union must respect international law and therefore – like the united states of america, norway, switzerland, iceland and lichtenstein – exclude western sahara when making agreements with morocco. the eu commission and the moroccan government have lobbied heavily for the agreement. despite that, the agreement did not get support by an absolute majority in the parliament and only 310 members voted in favour of the agreement. although the 204 votes against were not enough to reject the agreement, the votes against, together with the large numbers of abstentions, send a strong signal to the commission that there are still very strong concerns in the parliament regarding eventual future agreement proposals. while the new agreement is an improvement from an economical point of view, there are only cosmetic changes when it comes to human rights and the right of self-determination for the sahrawi people. therefore it was impossible for me, as shadow rapporteur, and for the liberal group to support the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide effective support for the situation of those made redundant by nokia in finland. the decision provides finnish workers with eur 9.8 million in relief for an acute regional problem. i am very pleased that parliament has given its blessing to this request. this decision will allow a positive outcome to the unfortunate situation. in this context, however, we must make efforts to avoid similar mass evictions in the future. the global fund is a useful instrument, but in the best case scenario, we would not have to resort to it. the horizon 2020 programme, which allocates funds to research, development and innovation, was adopted by parliament last month and is an important tool to help secure the future of our technology sectors. the decisions taken now will simultaneously affect both the fact that the workforce laid off from nokia will face new challenges and the fact that domestic technology companies will need to employ finns on a large scale in the future as well.
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of this important report. the benefits of cloud services are ease, speed and flexibility. however, excessive blindness can lead to problems for consumers in terms of data security, privacy and consumer protection. the more things consumers move to the cloud, the less control they have over them. this is why it is of the utmost importance that the eu actively creates consumer-friendly rules for cloud services. these include, for example, secure and fair contract terms, the right of consumers to choose and switch providers and liability in cases where consumers' data stored in the cloud is lost. as the report states, cloud services will continue to develop globally, whether or not the eu is involved. that is why i am in favour of taking an active role in this matter. by establishing common rules and practices, we can avoid and prevent risks that would undermine europeans' position in the global cloud market.
in writing. − the parliament decided today with a very slim majority to not phase out bottom-sea trawling. i am disappointed that we could not take this important step for protecting deep sea-bottoms and vulnerable eco-systems that we know so little about. the eu should in my opinion only apply bans if there are very strong reasons to do so. regarding bottom-trawling we have those reasons and the scientific evidence and recommendation are very clear on this matter. bottom-trawling is destructive to sea-bottoms and destroys corals that can be over a thousand years old. while i take note that not every sea-bottom is an underwater rainforest, bottom-trawling and deep-sea fishing under 600 metres benefit very few and provide very few europeans jobs. those 11 european fishing vessels that mainly conduct the ultra-deep-sea fishing could have got support from the european maritime and fisheries fund to change fishing gears in accordance with the ban for fishing under 600 metres. thereby no jobs would have been lost. i am both sad and disappointed that we did not take this important decision for the eco-systems and the marine environment that would have had almost no impact on employment and the economy.
it is important, mr president, that the european parliament sends a clear and strong message that it supports the people of ukraine. the future of ukraine is european, as commissioner rühle said at the beginning. it is also true that ukraine is in a difficult position because of its geopolitical position. but we must remember that many other countries in europe have been in a challenging position and have been able to make their own decisions and develop society in a more democratic direction. this is an important historical finding. we must continue along this path and not declare the vilna meeting a great defeat. in fact, ukraine was a defeat, but there were steps forward with georgia and moldova, and also an agreement with the eu and azerbaijan, and many regional and other cooperation bodies, such as the northern dimension, serve the neighbourhood policy.
mr president, the vilnius meeting showed that the eu must continue its neighbourhood policy and pursue a constructive one. the eu must therefore be constructive and, in pursuing its neighbourhood policy, it must dare to speak about russia, but it must also dare to speak with russia about its neighbourhood policy. i hope that the future will be built in such a way that ukraine, as an independent state and nation, will choose its own partner without pressure, and also that it will not have to choose between two partners but will be able to cooperate with both russia and the eu. finland, for example, is a member of the eu but also cooperates with russia. it has not always been easy, but it is possible. it is in the interest of the eu and its neighbours that cooperation continues on a constructive basis.
mr president, the instruments of the neighbourhood policy are very important when we are trying to influence the stability of our neighbourhood and to increase cooperation with the eu and its neighbourhood, both east and south. however, the successful use of the new neighbourhood policy instruments requires that we actively seek to influence the establishment of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the programmes focusing on training and student exchanges, as well as instruments for conflict and crisis prevention, will be of crucial importance. the european values, such as equal treatment for women and children, are of paramount importance, particularly in the context of the southern neighbourhood policy. in addition, the proper and appropriate use of funds will have to be given even more attention in the future.
mr president, the globalisation adjustment fund has today also distributed aid to people who have lost their jobs. the dismissed employees of nokia in finland, among others, received today some eur 10 million from the fund. in such large-scale situations of under-representation, it is also very important that entrepreneurs in the subcontracting chain are taken into account, just as the fund will do in the future. however, some of these changes to the fund's rules are a little vague. for example, i personally do not think it makes sense to bring farmers under the umbrella of the globalisation fund. i think farmers are covered by the common agricultural policy, not by this fund. i would also like to ask commissioner andor what he thinks of the criticism made in the court of auditors' special report last summer. for example, the slow functioning of the globalisation adjustment fund and the fact that many measures would have been taken by national measures anyway.
mr president, we are currently discussing in parliament a directive which concerns students, researchers and au pairs. in the course of the preparation of this directive, among other things, we encountered problems of domestic work in a much wider context. in many countries, domestic work is not regulated in the same way as other employment relationships. in addition, there is a very high level of undeclared work and exploitation of immigrants in this sector, as well as child labour. most domestic workers are not aware of their pension or social security rights and do not have occupational health care or sickness insurance. however, it should be noted that, as colleagues costello and harkin have pointed out, the household sector itself can be a source of employment as the population ages. many people working in the care sector are able to set up businesses which not only provide employment for them but also provide employment for other people. it is therefore of the utmost importance that this area be dealt with in a regular and regulated manner.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - mr president, in recent years the eu citizens have had their share of the world financial meltdown, the prolonged recession that followed and the union's debt crisis. the result has been austerity decisions which governments across the union have been reluctant to take in order to get the economies of the member states on the right track. at the same time, tax fraud and tax evasion have cost the eu an estimated €1 trillion in lost revenue per year a staggering €2,000 for every eu citizen. against this background, the commission's proposal and the parliament's report supporting it on the introduction of automatic exchange of information for the use of the union's tax authorities is very necessary. this act would help fill the gaps by including dividends, capital gains, all financial income and account balances in the scope of automatic exchange of information. on the contrary, it is necessary to consider carefully whether it is appropriate to agree with the rapporteur's view that the commission should negotiate information exchange agreements with third countries alone. the current practice of consultation between member states might be sufficient.
mr president, financial constraints are drastically reducing defence spending. obviously this has a negative impact on our defence capabilities. however, this negative impact hits us much more because of the very poor coordination and cooperation between us europeans. our group strongly believes that our security at home depends on the state of common european – i repeat, common european – defence. we therefore would like to call on member states to pledge themselves to robust european defence capabilities. we urge them to overcome the fragmentation, the duplication and the overcapacity. we urge them to make european industries more effective and creative through greater coordination. we need a european semester for defence issues. we need greater coordination at industry level through harmonisation of standards and certification of defence equipment. what we do not need is research, development, procurement and export of armed, fully automatic and autonomous drones that are apt to kill without human involvement. we need to include unarmed and armed drones in arms control regimes such as the eu common position and the eu dual-use export regimes and a global arms trade treaty. we call on the upcoming council on defence to strengthen implementation of the defence package, as proposed by the commission communication. the eu member states need to significantly deepen their cooperation and coordination on those aspects of defence which are relevant for an effective csdp.
the question of the blue card. mr president, mr le pen has totally misunderstood the posted workers directive. the idea of the directive is to pay equal pay for equal work in the same country. how can you turn that around?
in writing. - mr president, tax evasion is one of the main causes of the eu's economic crisis. if taxes were paid in the member states, national budgets would be in balance at the moment. the european commission has estimated the size of the eu's shadow economy alone at €1 000 billion. on top of that, there's the hidden assets in tax havens. the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation is welcome and necessary. the commission will be responsible for coordinating it. bilateral agreements between member states must be replaced by an exchange of information between all eu countries. the eu must also take active action in this field in the world. eu countries must push for the introduction of a single global system based on the new oecd standard to be presented in february 2014. only through extensive international cooperation will it be possible to bring tax evasion under control. finally, i would like to say that i support the cutach report. i was inadvertently not present at the final vote, although i did vote on several points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the committee's own-initiative report. the report takes account of the milk production in the sparsely populated and northern regions, along with the mountain regions. production in both regions is threatened by the end of quotas in 2015. this would seriously reduce the vitality of the whole region and would lead to the loss of jobs both in agriculture and in tourism. the report also highlights the challenges of the northern regions, the long distances involved, the limited location of downstream processing sites and the importance of supporting small farmers and local production. we stressed that the commission should monitor production in these areas after the abolition of the quota and take action to maintain production if the threats appear to be coming true.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. the report takes a position on, among other things, trade concentration and protectionism. the report also stresses that some member states discriminate against foreign companies in the field of trade by creating new barriers and thus making it more difficult to increase national and international competition. trade concentration is also a major problem in finland. in finland, two national operators currently have a market share of over 80%. trade concentration does not simply raise the prices paid by consumers. in addition to high prices, concentration changes the regional structure so that the movement is often concentrated outside the centres. this not only increases environmental and transport problems, but also weakens the position of consumers using public transport. i hope that the de jong report will be an inspiration to the authorities and trade actors in finland and other eu countries and that it will lead to a wider debate than at present on the social role of trade, leading to a better situation for consumers. by supporting retail trade, we have the opportunity to support a more diverse and humane europe!
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the future of the european retail trade. the joint action plan can contribute to economic growth, employment and competitiveness. the action plan is concerned mainly with strengthening the internal market. the commission will be able to take action to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. the important role of small businesses is also being strengthened by various support measures. i regret that the action plan did not recognise the right of small producers to group together nationally without penalty. i have repeatedly expressed my opposition to centralised market structures and my support for healthy competition in finland, where two large retail markets dominate.
mr president, the criticism of the eu has increased in recent years. it is good to be critical, it is part of democracy and it should not be suppressed. the eu's democracy must be strengthened instead. the eu institutions themselves must be consulted. the fewer the member states that are large and agree on different bilateral or multilateral agreements, the more united the eu remains, and that is in everyone's interest. some member states would like to pick only raisins from the bottle. they would like, for example, a single market, but not workers' rights or consumer protection, let alone a ban on tax evasion or the abolition of the 'paradises'. obviously, this equation doesn't work. let us build the eu together with the actions of all the member states, taking into account the weakest. it is not that the eu is being developed only on the terms of the financial world and big business. that equation is not gonna work. we need democracy, we need criticism, we need constructive criticism and above all we need cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done in presenting the right of consumers to a basic bank account. in today's world, it is almost impossible to get along without a bank account. most permanent residents have no problems accessing banking services, but the situation may be particularly challenging for immigrants and temporary residents, such as students or migrant workers. this is the situation facing almost 60 million europeans, as we have heard here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the facilitation of access to payment services improves the functioning of the internal market and prevents, among other things, a grey economy, as different payments, for example the payment of wages, can be verified through credit transfers. it is very important for customers that clear and comparable terms and conditions and fees apply to the account. this increases competition between banks and also lowers prices. the proposal is based on the assumption that consumers should be able to transfer their accounts to another bank if necessary. we have done a great deal of work in this parliament to create a single euro payments area, or sepa. payment from one member state to another must be as easy and as costly as within the country. thus, if sepa is well-functioning, there is not necessarily any need to transfer banking services from one country to another. on the other hand, it is very important for the sake of competition that the closure of an account and the change of bank, if necessary, should be carried out with low costs and with little red tape. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of information on the use of the euro.
mr president, the resolution states that the loss of biodiversity must be actively combated in order to protect the natural capital for the benefit of both present and future generations. this trivial statement, however, has not been self-evident in practice, as studies show that the european landscape has lost more habitat than anywhere else, and is more fragmented. the concept of green infrastructure also has a problem: it is seen as the answer to all good things, but its concrete nature is unclear. the concept is also so broad that when we say, in accordance with the resolution, that the integration of green infrastructure into all policy areas is a basic condition without which no credible green infrastructure policy can be implemented, we ourselves no longer know what that means. so let me answer the challenge in this way: we need more of what is called the wilderness in europe. it's priceless. but we cannot maintain this without a clear financial contribution. however, these contributions are not wasted and are even compatible with a few other policy objectives. let's say youth unemployment. if we were to make a conscious effort to restore and preserve the original nature of the member states, so that they could be enjoyed by the public as places of recreation, this would create jobs specifically for remote areas, for example in the form of guided tours. these are the jobs that cannot be lost to globalisation. they're staying here.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to start by congratulating mr draghi and the ecb on the good work, not only for the year 2012 – which the report covers – but also for the work this year. ecb does not stand for ‘easy to be’! the two statesmen met in july 2012 to do whatever was necessary to stabilise the euro zone, to keep interest rates low, and to give us much needed stability. however, it is important to keep in mind that we cannot leave all the problems on the doormat of the ecb and then lean back and think of better times to come. the most crucial thing – as has already been said here – is to create the banking union. the appointment of a new head of the single supervisory mechanism yesterday marked another milestone in this respect. there is, however, no time to rest on our laurels. the next phase will be to straighten out a lot of question marks regarding the recovery mechanism. we do not want to see more unconventional methods and measures from the ecb. instead, the banking union must be combined with structural reforms. we do not get back on the growth track through austerity or the lavish spending of borrowed money: we need structural reforms. there has been a lot of discussion regarding the term ‘too big to fail’, and this week the us also released their volcker rule. but here we need to be careful. banking differs very much from country to country, and a categorical rule regarding this could impact smaller banks negatively and be counterproductive. many thanks to mr pittella for his great work, and we hope that mr draghi will keep up the good work in his office.
mr president, the fight against tax evasion is an important objective. even an eu critic like myself can wholeheartedly support it here in parliament. i would say that this is one of the most important issues that i think we need to regulate at eu level. crossborder cooperation is certainly beneficial and in some cases even necessary to combat tax evasion. at the same time, it is important to remind the national states of their responsibility. the report calls on the member states to take concrete steps to eliminate tax havens and to ensure that no state-owned enterprises are evading taxes anywhere in the eu. however, cooperation at eu level in the fight against tax evasion and tax havens should not be allowed to interfere with the tax rights of the national operator. we can agree on common guidelines and principles, but taxation must remain within the national sphere.
mr president, the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion should be the eu's priority. aggressive tax planning and tax havens must be banned. the commission's statement was rather modest. it has been pointed out in many speeches here that the exchange of information between member states is an effective way of tackling this problem. i understand the criticism of the eu and even the anti-eu sentiment among the citizens, and it will increase unless the eu intervenes. citizens must be able to trust that the eu will not allow another member state to steal tax revenues from another member state. the eu and the commission could be much more interested in this. (the president cut off the speaker)
i voted in favour of this important report. in the globalised economy, the flows of energy and materials and environmental problems are transcending national and continental boundaries. the report by mr kadenbach is therefore very timely. the report stresses the importance of the public sector as an eco-innovator. i hope that we will get some additional input into this from the reform of public procurement which is under way. in addition to a procurement policy that emphasises environmental sustainability, the public sector now has the opportunity to promote diverse and sustainable employment opportunities through its actions. however, public sector action alone will not save the environment or spread good practice, but also involve businesses and consumers. i am glad that the report includes a number of points on the position of consumers and the information to be given to consumers, because it is precisely consumer behaviour that determines whether we achieve the objectives set for eco-innovation.
the author. - mr president, as has already been said here, the intervention now under way is being carried out by france, not the eu. the french president, francois hollande, said a few days ago at a memorial service for two soldiers who died there that intervention was dangerous but necessary. i am, as i am sure we all are, concerned about the humanitarian situation in central africa. there's a shortage of everything, food and above all, of course, security. only a fraction of the children in the central african republic can go to school, there is not enough food, and there are many problems. it is good that the eu has increased its humanitarian aid, but now we must ensure that this aid is passed on to those who need it. the region needs a political solution and the main responsibility for securing peace must lie with the african union and the united nations.
for the alde group mr president, the situation in the central african republic is very challenging and difficult. we in the european union must consider how we can contribute to the development of peace and how violence can be brought to an end. this violence has been cruel to women, child soldiers have been used, and war crimes have been very common. how, really, could peace be brought about and social peace restored? i myself believe that the european union must play an active part in this, together with the un and the african union. as a community of european values, we must do everything possible to strengthen the stability of the region through humanitarian aid, and above all to ensure respect for human rights, dialogue between the different religions and mutual respect. this would create the conditions for peace and stability in that region.
for the alde group mr president, organ harvesting in china is a very shocking thing. we know that there are no human rights in china and that there is very little respect for human life, for human bodies. therefore, there have been reports that this type of illegal organ harvesting has been and will be practiced. both executed prisoners and falun gong practitioners have been on this list. these allegations themselves and the fact that china has not openly spoken about or reported on these matters are serious and we as the european union must act to ensure that all forms of human rights violations and abuses and this type of illegal organ transplantation are addressed and prevented. we must also continue to remember that in china we must advance the democratic movement and human rights. it is one of the key objectives of the european union.
mr president, a few colleagues, mr de keyser and mr vergiat, have asked where the sources of this information come from. i would ask you to look at the research done by david kilgour, former canadian foreign minister for asia and the pacific, and human rights lawyer david matas back in 2007, which is a very comprehensive study of organ theft in china, particularly related to the followers of falun gong. similarly, a 2006 study by kirk allison, a researcher at the university of minnesota, found that the average person who has a high blood sugar level is more likely to have a high blood sugar level. the vice-president of the european parliament, edward macmillan-scott, has also been to china and has made a study of the matter, so there is independent evidence of this. the action is an organised and planned way of removing organs not only from executed prisoners but also from prisoners of conscience who are still alive against their will. these prisoners may die as a result of the transplant operations or complications. it is therefore important that this resolution calls not only for the cessation of this activity but also for the release of these prisoners of conscience by china. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to the blue card question. mr president, mr tarabella, i really wanted to bring up sources other than those of falun gong in my own speech. of particular importance to me is the comprehensive independent study of 2007 by david kilgour and david matas. i also mentioned the research on this subject by kirk allison of the university of minnesota and by the vice-president of the parliament, macmillan-scott. i'd like you to look at these.
mr president, mr essayah is right, i would have referred to this kilgour study myself. i know kilgore personally, and i've read the files. a few years ago, china finally admitted to using the internal organs of executed prisoners for extradition purposes. although extradition requires the prisoner's permission by law, several human rights organizations are concerned that this is not being asked in practice. thousands of prisoners are executed in china each year, and it has been estimated that 63 percent of the donated organs come from them. it is also worth paying attention to the mistreatment of falun gong practitioners. since 1999, china has been trying to eradicate this spiritual movement. according to multiple sources, falun gong prisoners sent to labor camps for their beliefs are subjected to costly, detailed health checks while in prison, as their organs are also looted and donated. it is time for the eu to publicly condemn the grossly unethical behaviour of the executed prisoners and call for a wider inquiry into the matter. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to the blue card question. i am not sure that your question has been fully interpreted. i was listening to the finnish interpretation and i felt it was somehow unfinished. i mean, did you ask if the evidence should be made public? if you ask, of course, and it can be brought. but i am not sure i understood correctly. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to the blue card question. i cannot answer that question. i'm not sure that's our job. i'd like to hear your opinion on that. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to the blue card question. i have not read this material. i'll just say that i've reviewed the kilgour material and it was very convincing and i can of course pass it on.
mr president, i appreciate the expertise of my colleague, mr deva, on this matter. i have come to understand that the present problems in sri lanka are a reversal of the serious human rights violations of the civil war that ended four years ago. we are talking about appalling atrocities, the killing of tens of thousands of civilians and attacks on hospitals and other places. the conclusions of the un special expert on sri lanka must be taken seriously and the european union's external action service must be very active in the reconciliation process in sri lanka. war crimes must not be tolerated and human rights violations must be condemned. the numerous citizens who have already shared their experiences with the national truth commission demonstrate that the sri lankan people have a genuine and strong need and desire for a national dialogue on this issue. i am particularly concerned about the reports that churches and mosques have also been attacked again recently. the sri lankan government must make efforts to safeguard freedom of religion and also the practice of religion.
