mr president, on a subject as important as the armed conflict that has just broken out, which concerns a member state in the first place - a member state that suffered losses this weekend - which concerns a region for which the european union, through the european council, adopted a strategy almost two years ago, a strategy which we are calling for to be implemented in practice here in parliament, through our committees, i find it particularly regrettable that, as the european union is preparing to deploy a mission to this country - mali - we have no interlocutor during the five hours we are going to spend on common foreign and security policy on wednesday and that we cannot discuss this matter of the highest importance. it is a very unfortunate thing for ourselves, and it is a very unfortunate and sad sight for our fellow citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. the increasing number of restructuring projects in europe must be part of a long-term strategy in order to be successful not only economically but also socially. this is why there is a need for continuous improvement of skills to allow greater internal and external mobility of workers. these recommendations are part of a socially responsible approach which it is time for all companies, large and small, to embrace. preparing for restructuring in advance, offering continuing training and involving workers in decision-making are steps which are desired not only by workers but also by consumers, who are attentive to the social efforts made by enterprises. csr (corporate social responsibility) applied widely and, subsequently, a label given to these socially responsible companies would make it possible to define social minimums and social convergence, as well as to give a significant social impetus that is widely expected in europe by workers, young people and also investors. at present, everyone agrees that the labour market needs to be more flexible in order to be able to adapt to european and global economic constraints, but this must not be done at any price. while restructuring is inevitable, the obligation to provide training and information in advance is essential.
author. - mr president, commissioner, since you put on the table in july this initiative for a youth guarantee, which this european parliament had asked you to put in place, things have been progressing and we understand that the next council of ministers for social affairs and employment will have to discuss this initiative on 7 and 8 february in dublin. the role of this oral question and the resolution we are about to vote on is to support all the efforts that can be made in this area, because we believe that the employment situation in general, but in particular that of young people in the european union, is not acceptable, that everything must be done to correct this situation and that, where the experiment has been carried out - i am thinking in particular of austria, sweden or denmark, but also of the generation contract, now in france - there are ways of doing things other than considering youth employment as a consequence of other policies. we must be more determined, more willing. we must not accept that a young person can be unemployed or leave the education system without being offered a new training, education, apprenticeship, traineeship or job in the next four months. it is not a question of forcing job creation, but of creating every opportunity so that this generation will not be a lost generation. to do this, you have made a proposal which is largely based on the goodwill of the member states, by allowing them to use the structural funds and, in particular, those on which we must always agree, namely the european social fund. we understand this approach, we support it as far as it is realistic, but for that reason we also say to the member states that if we want to be able to finance this youth guarantee using the european social fund, we must be consistent and allow 25% of the funds available for cohesion policy to be reserved for the benefit of the european social fund. we also think that we need to think beyond this and think that, perhaps, in order to compensate for macroeconomic imbalances within the european union, in order for the question of the youth guarantee to become a european issue, we need to think about european mechanisms. i know that all this cannot be decided at the epsco council in february, but a path is being traced. our parliament will tell you, commissioner, that we also want the design of this youth guarantee to be adapted to the reality of what young people are experiencing on the ground because we know that it is not just about citizens of the european union. on the contrary, among the most vulnerable populations among the younger ones, it is often those outside the community who are stigmatised, because they are unemployed. we must reach out to them, because otherwise we know that we are making the bed for those we do not like, those who are tearing europe apart with populism and simplification. we also want this youth guarantee to take account of the reality of the situation of graduates, where the question of access to employment unfortunately does not stop at the age of 25. as you yourself said last week, commissioner, in the report you tabled on the employment situation in the european union, today one fifth of the unemployed have never worked and three quarters of them are under 35. these are the people we are talking about and who must be taken into account if we do not want this generation to be a wasted generation, but if we also want the european union as a whole to meet its main challenge, that of innovation, because who else but young people at work, young people in learning, young people with jobs, will enable us to be at the forefront of innovation, at the forefront of progress and will enable this europe to be the one that continues to carry with pride its values and its social model, as president barroso invited us to do some time ago? commissioner, thank you for this initiative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will be able to count on us at the epsco council to push the ministers with the support, as we know, of the irish presidency, to make this proposal a reality. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, it is because the european union must cease to be synonymous with a factory of unemployed, homeless, untrained, and, in a way, without a future for millions of young people that the youth guarantee project, which is proposed here, must be defended and implemented, not as a kind of social treatment for unemployment, but as a european tool for cooperation to offer a future to young people. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. moreover, there is something absurd about our european policies which push for a delay in the retirement age, while more and more young people are being left without work. the positive step which the european guarantee for the future of young people can take should be accompanied by new rights, in particular the rights to education and lifelong training, to the school of second chance, which exists here and there, as well as the right to join a trade union, the right to european and universal social protection guaranteeing social security for every young person, the right to a european minimum wage equivalent to a european average wage, the right to social security at work, combining work, the necessary training, activities and even training periods in companies. a european public service guarantee for young people should be created, financed by a fund dedicated to the future of young europeans and not by a redeployment of appropriations.
mr president, commissioner, this is an emergency. an entire generation is being sacrificed on the altar of austerity. nearly 14 million young people under 30 are neither in employment nor in training, and yet everyone says: there are solutions. the 'youth guarantee', which the green group has been advocating for years, is a measure that works, as has been said, in denmark, austria. and for it to work, it needs two conditions. the first is the creation of a genuine income for self-sufficiency, because too many young people are forced to work alongside their studies, which condemns them to failure. the second condition is the establishment of clear rules governing the courses. the commission can no longer wait to combat the exploitation of young people who take up short-term contracts disguised as internships. finally, while the guarantee creates a right, it does not create jobs. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. investing in our young people is to give them hope again, but the challenge for all of us today is above all to reconcile young people and europe.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, as a member of parliament's negotiating team on the general regulation on the funds, i would like to stress that we are currently ensuring that the expectations contained in these reports are taken into account and that funding opportunities are found in future european funds. but it must be admitted that it is not always easy to obtain the necessary support from the member states for regional policy to make a qualitative leap. however, in this negotiation, the european parliament is moving forward united and determined, but it is true that our task is difficult. at our last meeting, commissioner, i had the opportunity to express my great concern about the future multiannual financial framework. this is the first time in the history of european integration that the budget for cohesion policy has been proposed at a lower level. i think we must consider its full significance for the future of regional policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that these four reports, all based on the principle of financial solidarity between the territories, will enable us to inform our fellow citizens about the current challenges of the post-2014 reform. the solidarity fund has already provided several million euros to member states in 49 disasters since 2002. its revision, which has been blocked by the council, is vital. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the subjects raised in the other three reports - urban redevelopment, the coordination mechanism of the funds, the impact of european funds on energy objectives - provide an opportunity for parliament to take a clear position on the future. cohesion policy is a formidable investment lever for the competitiveness of all the territories. it finances projects for social cohesion in cities, renewable energy production in rural areas, energy efficiency in buildings, the development of smes, research or the conservation of natural resources. in his last budget compromise proposal, mr von rompuy cut the appropriations for the transition regions, the developed regions and up to 27% for territorial cooperation. the eu will only find support and legitimacy among its citizens if its budget is ambitious and its actions show solidarity and are visible in our territories.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after a very long process, on 6 december the report on the consequences of intellectual property rights on genetic resources for developing countries was voted by a very large majority in the committee on development. this day will be a milestone because, for the first time, meps from all political groups have declared their will to fight against the plundering of our planet's resources. today the word 'biopiracy' is no longer a taboo in this house, and i would like to thank all our colleagues who have taken part in this important step. but tomorrow, we're gonna have to go further. the vote will be crucial in expressing our determination, the determination of the european parliament as a whole, to move towards greater coherence in development policies. it is a matter of reaffirming our commitment to stopping bio-piracy and, to do so, to defend ancestral cultures, to defend regional economies, to respect the rights of indigenous peoples and small farmers and, finally, to preserve our environment and biodiversity. as you know, 90 percent of the world's biological heritage is in developing countries. the vast majority of patents are held by the industrialized countries and we know that genetic resources are of crucial importance for sustainable agriculture and food security throughout the world. the protection of genetic diversity, the conservation of genetic diversity are indeed the key words to achieve the millennium development goals. this is a matter of reaffirming the principle of coherence of development policies as - i remind you - it is enshrined in article 208 of the lisbon treaty. the rules governing the exploitation of natural resources, traditional resources and knowledge are very poorly defined. as a result, some companies are breaking into this legal vacuum and taking advantage of this legal vacuum to appropriate traditional knowledge. in the face of the multitude of texts, the multitude of institutions dealing with these issues, there is an urgent need: the ratification and implementation of the nagoya protocol, and this in a more coherent system of global governance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have understood this - and i have concluded it - and we believe that this is a real challenge for the european union, which must condemn practices that are contrary to our commitment to combating poverty and preserving biodiversity. i am counting on you, ladies and gentlemen, and i thank you.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which aims to highlight the importance of urban planning in the daily lives of citizens, especially the most disadvantaged. the aim here is to mobilise cohesion funds and thus contribute to economic recovery in these areas through projects related to energy efficiency in buildings, waste management, migration and population ageing.
in writing. i voted for the cozzolino report. i am convinced that local development must have its place in cohesion policy, since it is the closest thing to the citizen. i believe that energy efficiency in buildings, migration and the ageing of the population are all issues that need to be addressed by cohesion policy.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague andrea cozzolino on the contribution of urban redevelopment to economic growth. the urban dimension is a major feature of the union: more than two thirds of europeans live in cities. it is in urban areas that economic activity and wealth creation are concentrated, but also, symmetrically, the greatest social difficulties, insecurity and discrimination. cohesion policy must therefore take better account of this situation and place particular emphasis on financing, in particular, urban renewal projects, which have proven their worth in combating segregation and improving living together for people in cities and suburbs.
in writing. the urban dimension is an essential aspect of cohesion policy which deserves close attention. 80% of european citizens live in urban areas and the effects of the crisis are felt most often in cities. by voting on the report on urban redevelopment as a vehicle for economic growth, the european parliament, to which i belong, wanted to express its concern about the effects of the economic and social crisis which are affecting our cities and to propose guidelines for combating exclusion and precariousness, unemployment, energy poverty and ageing populations. the urban dimension must be complementary to the rural dimension, especially since the border is no longer as clear and the movement of people between the city and the countryside sometimes seems to reverse the trends observed in the past. above all, the urban dimension must be addressed in a comprehensive and integrated approach involving all relevant actors and addressing urban planning as well as transport, infrastructure, economic development, social cohesion and the environment in order to make urban renewal a tangible contribution to the economic revitalization of european cities.
in writing. the report stresses the need to create more green spaces and public spaces. it supports a participatory design of urban planning for citizens. he is calling for action on pollution, noise and congestion, which i support. i regret, however, that the report does not stress the need to improve public transport networks and to reduce advertising in our cities. it is a necessity.
in writing. our parliament, by this vote, recalls that cities are sources and engines of growth, as economic, employment and production centres, and as crossroads for the mobility of people and goods. the other side of the coin is that in a crisis situation, they are all the more fragile. i welcome the fact that our assembly is addressing this problem and proposing ways of rethinking urban planning in the light of the needs in terms of economic, social, territorial cohesion and sustainability. improving energy efficiency, sustainable mobility from city centres to the outskirts, and a pleasant living environment are all responses to fully adapting the union's urban policy to the challenges of the 21st century. but this cannot be done by will alone, and i welcome the decision to allocate 5% of the erdf to actions for sustainable urban development, which will be managed directly by the cities, which guarantees strategies adapted to the specificities and needs. urban renewal is a strategic lever for growth, competitiveness and the attractiveness of territories, and it was important that we lay the foundations for a european strategy which has yet to be built and implemented.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which aims to highlight the importance of urban planning in the daily lives of citizens, and particularly the most disadvantaged. the report seeks effective and efficient mechanisms to create synergies between european funding programmes in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential that the budget for cohesion policy after 2013 is at least maintained at its current level in order to ensure continued support for regions in need of social and economic renewal throughout the union. we also need to continue to move forward with convergence within the union, given the number of disparities that remain (for example in terms of accessibility) and that continue to worsen between the regions of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the vaughan report which aims to maximise the role of territorial development in cohesion policy. i believe that effective mechanisms are needed to create synergies between the different funding programmes of the common strategic framework. territorial development is a new dimension of cohesion policy and its importance deserved to be emphasised.
in writing. eu funding for territorial development exists and is an obvious tool of cohesion policy: i voted in favour of this report because it shows a concern for simplification and efficiency in its use. the decisions, to benefit european citizens, must be taken as close to them as possible. if we want to reduce economic and social inequalities between our territories, this is obvious: there is no "one size fits all" in this matter. better coordination of european funds is a good idea, for two reasons: to respond as well as possible to the needs of citizens, while making the best possible use of public funds.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the role of territorial development in cohesion policy, which seeks to create synergies between the union's funding programmes in order to make them more effective. it is important that we seek to use the funds appropriately at all levels of decision-making. this report highlights improvements that can be made to the existing funding system based on past experience.
in writing. as part of the continuity of the revisions of european policies for the 2014-2020 budget, i voted in favour of this text, which underlines the role of territorial development in the implementation of the union's flagship cohesion policy. historically designed to reduce disparities between regions, cohesion policy has partially achieved its objectives, but it now needs to evolve, especially in terms of its modalities. the first priority, which i share, is to adapt european funds to local specificities and needs. this requires greater consultation and interaction between public authorities and private actors. this is essential to ensure that the funds support useful and sustainable territorial development projects, which are drivers of growth and economic and social cohesion. the other priority is to reduce the administrative burden and improve the visibility of the funds. too often, project promoters are unaware of the european co-financing available or are discouraged by its complexity. this improvement in cohesion policy must now be put into practice, as it is a showcase of what the union can do in everyday life for european citizens. it is one of our greatest achievements, let's adapt it to the new challenges.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european union solidarity fund (eusf). it was set up in response to the major floods that hit central europe in the summer of 2002. to date, 23 european countries have benefited from the programme, with a total of over eur 3.2 billion. the report aims to improve this solidarity fund without creating an additional financial burden for the european budget or that of the member states. the principle that the person who caused the damage is the payer is also maintained.
in writing. i voted in favour of the estaras ferragut report on the european union solidarity fund. this tool, which embodies the application of the european principle of solidarity in the event of disaster, is essential to me. it must be improved without creating additional burdens. i agree with the principle that the person who caused the damage is the one who pays. i also welcome the request for a reduction in the time needed to grant aid. this report proposes some sensible measures and i welcome its adoption.
in writing. the eu solidarity fund is our main tool to stay united and stronger in the face of natural disasters. between 2002 and 2012, it helped respond to 49 crisis situations, releasing almost €3.2 billion for 23 countries. it is one of those major projects which actually benefit citizens, especially those in difficulty, and thus give meaning to the union. this reform would improve the functioning of the eusf and the quality and speed of its responses without placing additional burdens on the member states' budgets. i particularly support the objective of speeding up payments so that the state in difficulty can receive the funds it needs as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the solidarity fund, set up in 2002 following the devastating floods in central europe, is a very useful support instrument for countries hit by a major natural disaster. the latter may, where necessary, benefit from the financial solidarity of all the member states in addition to the funds they have themselves mobilised. between its creation and september 2012, the fund has been mobilised for 49 disasters (mainly floods and fires), amounting to eur 3.2 billion. the current aim is to make adjustments to make the fund more flexible and operational, in particular by simplifying the eligibility criteria and shortening the administrative procedures for granting. the text clarifies the definitions and categories of natural disasters, possibly incorporating new dimensions such as drought, mediterranean disasters or even disasters of non-natural origin.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund is a key fund to give substance to the principle of solidarity enshrined in the treaties in the event of natural disasters affecting one or other of the member states. i therefore believe that it is essential to do everything possible to reduce the bureaucratic obstacles to its implementation, which have been identified since its inception in 2002. in particular, it should be better able to function in the event of disasters identified as 'minor' and its implementation time should be shortened in order to provide assistance to the victims of such disasters as quickly as possible. with clarified definitions, this revised instrument will thus be able to continue to translate into action the european solidarity that our citizens want to see more expressed in their daily lives in these difficult times of crisis.
in writing. i welcome the position adopted by the european parliament in strasbourg on tuesday 15 january calling for the european union solidarity fund to be maintained. few citizens are properly informed about the solidarity actions carried out by the european union in support of regions that have suffered a major natural disaster. the eu solidarity fund, which has been in existence since 2002, is a very concrete instrument of this solidarity, since it supports the actions of the member states in a region or regions affected by a large-scale natural disaster. to date, the facility has been used in 49 cases in 23 countries, for a total of eur 3.2 billion. france has benefited from this funding on several occasions, notably following the 2010 xynthia storm, which raised eur 35,7 million, and following the 2002 gard floods, which raised eur 21 million. it is not a question of increasing the budget or creating the conditions for an increase in the budget, which is generously provided by the member states, but of rationalizing its use, speeding up the granting of aid and ensuring better publicity.
in writing. the eu solidarity fund (eusf) was established to provide financial assistance to states and regions affected by major natural disasters. the report supports greater flexibility and acceleration in the modalities for mobilising the eusf. it urged that adequate consideration be given to slow-moving disasters such as drought. i support all these proposals. i regret, however, that the report does not mention the increase in natural disasters and the worsening of their consequences. it merely explains the increase in the number of requests for the supposed electoralism of local or national elected officials. the budget cuts, privatisations and productivist logic advocated by the current eu are not without reason in the multiplication of disasters, the increased severity of their consequences and the increasing difficulty in dealing with them. i am voting for this text only to encourage the inclusion of slow-moving disasters which have been ignored until now.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report as it aims to reform several administrative rules of the european union. in particular, these rules should promote transparency and accountability in the administration and increase citizens' trust in the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on european union administrative law. i agree with the rapporteur who sees in administrative procedural law an opportunity to strengthen the legitimacy of the european union. at the same time, i believe that a minimum safety net with guarantees for citizens and businesses in their direct relations with the union's administration is necessary.
in writing. citizens are increasingly confronted with the european union, whose powers are constantly expanding. however, the union's rules and principles of good administration are not yet complete or coherent. citizens must be able to know their rights and to exercise them in a clear and simple way. this is a necessary condition for strengthening citizens' confidence in our institutions. the text has the merit of containing a large number of detailed proposals, which i hope the commission will be able to use as a basis for establishing a genuine administrative law of the european union, for the benefit of all.
mr president, i voted for this report and i welcome the reflection it makes on the question of employment and social dialogue. as the european economy is being hit hard by the crisis, the number of restructuring measures is increasing and these are often accompanied by social measures. this situation therefore confronts us with the worrying rise in unemployment and shows, at industrial level, the urgency of conducting global reflections on most of our sectors. on the social side, the need to support employees can be addressed at european level, while the european union is already providing financial support for restructuring under the globalisation adjustment fund. there is no need to debate the need to protect employees and preserve employment or to strengthen social dialogue. they are obvious. but we must be particularly careful not to put more brakes on our industries than there are already. too restrictive legislation would inhibit the entrepreneurial spirit, which would have serious consequences for our productivity and our capacity for innovation and would be detrimental to growth and employment. the way the rapporteur has chosen to ask the commission to formulate guidelines on this matter which the member states can use, without forcing them to do so by means of a directive, seems to me to be the way forward. it is essential to allow entrepreneurs a minimum of flexibility to continue their activities under good conditions. legislation should not be confiscatory.
in writing. by strengthening the role and participation of employees, this report, which was widely adopted by the european parliament, makes it possible to anticipate restructuring. with an explosion of unemployment and a weakened industry, this initiative is to be welcomed even though many provisions existed in french law. i voted in favour of this report because it allows for the introduction of harmonisation at european level in the field of restructuring.
in writing. in this time of crisis, hundreds of thousands of citizens are suffering the consequences of restructuring across europe. while some of them can be explained, others are the result of arbitrariness and greed. in a globalised economy, the rules governing companies have become international, while workers remain governed by national rules that do not sufficiently protect them. we call on the european commission to take decisive action to support the restructuring of large companies (over 500 employees). the recommendations we make in the cercas report should be the pillars of a european directive. they can be summed up in the following words: anticipation, information for workers, social dialogue, minimisation of the social cost and support by the public authorities. restructuring operations must be explained and, moreover, justified to the workers. dismissals should be a last resort only after consideration of alternative options. the aim is to minimise social costs, maximise the possibilities for reintegration of workers, and develop collaboration with public authorities in the affected regions to finance vocational transition. in short, to give substance to this 'social' market economy.
in writing. the increasing number of restructuring projects in europe require a long-term strategy to be successful at the economic level but above all to be considered socially responsible. continuous improvement of skills is needed to enable greater internal and external mobility of workers. these recommendations are part of a 'socially responsible' approach which it is time for all companies, large and small, to adopt. preparing for restructuring in advance, providing continuing training and involving workers in decision-making are desirable steps for workers and also for consumers who are attentive to the "social" efforts made by companies. csr applied widely, and subsequently a label given to these socially responsible companies, would provide a significant "social" impetus which is widely expected in europe by workers, young people and also investors. at present everyone agrees that the labour market must be more flexible in order to be able to adapt to european and global economic constraints, but this must not be done at any price. while restructuring is inevitable, the obligations of anticipation, training and information are indispensable.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which strengthens the role of social democracy in the process of drawing up the european framework for restructuring, since the commission is now asked to organise a prior consultation of the european social partners. as a socialist, i welcome the fact that the social dialogue, to which i am particularly attached, is the cornerstone of these recommendations. the social dialogue is a factor which can help to promote european competitiveness. the social partners must be the main interlocutors in the conduct of national reforms. they are intended to provide appropriate responses, particularly on employment and labour issues, which can then be translated into national and european legislation.
in writing. the changes in the global economy and the 2008 financial crisis have triggered a cascade of restructuring in europe, hitting some strategic industrial sectors such as the automotive industry hard. these restructuring measures, which are highly destructive of jobs, must be better anticipated, better supported and better prepared in order to prevent social conflicts and to promote new skills and new jobs for employees. the restructuring of firms with more than 500 employees must be better prepared in advance without affecting the freedom of enterprise. clear information must be given to employees as far as possible before any restructuring and the conditions for productive social dialogue must be established. of course, dismissal should be a last resort. ensuring a common framework for restructuring at european level will help to strengthen trust between company managers and their employees and also to make the construction of a social market economy a reality.
in writing. today, the renault group held its 6th negotiating meeting with its trade unions. on the menu: reducing its workforce by 7500 people by 2016, mainly in the form of natural departures, and flexibility in exchange for maintaining all french production sites. the commission has already taken note of the recommendations in the cercas report, or is the cercas report essentially a smoke-filler? and in particular to raise the european banner, and to make people forget that only a short time ago, we were praising the excessive liberalization of international trade and the increased competition within the european union, without caring about the social disasters that these policies entail. we don't change the context, by the way. we pretend to care about the consequences. many of the measures proposed in the report already exist in most if not all member states, in practice or in law, although the systems can be improved. there's no need to involve brussels. in short, it is a publicity stunt, although some suggestions could inspire governments and companies. and the consequence is job losses. today's 7,500 layoffs will be in addition to hundreds of thousands more planned for 2013 and the 6.5 million industrial jobs lost since 2008.
in writing. the deindustrialisation of europe is a tragedy today, especially for our jobs and our regions, which are seriously weakened. in a globalised economy we need a common response, and in particular a european policy that is genuinely concerned with industrialisation, with a strong social dialogue. restructuring should not be about paying back shareholders, but more about finding solutions for workers and local authorities who have invested in a project that is being terminated. the commission must therefore commit itself to this, and it is in this sense that i support this resolution which calls for the adoption of a legislative proposal to finally provide a common response to industrial desertification and put an end to the logic of 'let-go/let-do'.
in writing. the report by spanish socialist alejandro cercas is a caricature of what happens when socialists prefer to negotiate with the right rather than the left. the report was voted by a large majority in parliament, but it was emptied of its contents. this report on informing workers in the event of company restructuring, a crucial subject, is just one large communication operation. it does not bring any new rights to workers. this text has no legislative value and will therefore have no practical consequences. it is only a feint to give the illusion that the european parliament cares about the workers. worse, it even plans to restrict the rights of employee representatives to disseminate certain information on redundancies. the workers who are being made redundant deserve much more than that from those whom they elected to the european parliament.
in writing. the cercas report on information and consultation of workers was intended to change the commission's attitude to the violence of restructuring in europe. these operations, which are carried out at the expense of the workers and without listening to them, demonstrate the urgency of adopting a european framework for restructuring and guaranteeing the workers and their representatives a right to information, consultation and a role in these processes. the cercas report makes these demands and reminds companies of their obligations towards their employees. it also stresses the importance of preserving human capital and, above all, the value of investing in the training of workers planned in multiannual plans anticipating the needs of the company and guaranteeing the employability of its employees. however, the liberal and conservative amendments have reduced the scope of this report by diluting good ideas into vague suggestions, while guaranteeing companies provisions to limit the publication of information concerning the future of their employees. more seriously, the report merely asks the commission to examine the need for a legal act, where a strong directive is needed and its application would be monitored. because of these shortcomings, i decided to abstain.
in writing. we do not need european legislation, as mr cercas' report calls for, to think that social dialogue is a necessary element in anticipating and managing company restructuring. although this report makes some interesting proposals on how companies should behave towards their employees in the event of restructuring, national regulations, whether legislative or conventional, are the most relevant because they are the most adapted to the diversity of the economic situations of the member states. what is certain is that the ultra-liberal ideology of the european commission is largely responsible for the deindustrialisation of europe, and that the schizophrenic attitude of the european institutions to always want to cure the effects without tackling the causes, in particular social and fiscal dumping between member states or the rejection of any intelligent protectionism at the borders, will only increase the number of the 26 million unemployed in the european union. the discussions are about palliative care, not about how to cure the disease. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. this report is completely inconsistent. he acknowledges that austerity is aggravating the crisis and increasing unemployment, but he still supports it. it claims to develop 'information' for employees in advance of restructuring decisions in an attempt to avoid them, but gives no way for workers to weigh in on the decision. worse, it promotes the superiority of company-to-company negotiation of working conditions over the law, not only in exceptional circumstances (which is already unacceptable), but in general. this is the logic of sarkozy's "competitiveness-employment agreements", which were re-written into "employment retention agreements" by the agreement signed by three unions with medef on 11 january 2013, which is endorsed here. i am voting against this text and i am fighting the measures it proposes at european level as well as in france.
in writing. on 14 november 2011, the european union adopted a strategic framework for the horn of africa, focusing on several areas such as the promotion of human rights, peace, security and regional cooperation. i voted in favour of this report as i validate the implementation of this strategy, as i did with the appointment on 1 january 2012 of mr alexander rondos as the european union special representative for the horn of africa.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the eu strategy for the horn of africa because strengthening regional security and the fight against terrorism and piracy, as essential as they are, must not overshadow the absolute need to support poverty eradication in the horn of africa in the first place. sudan, somalia, ethiopia are in the hands of terrorist networks that threaten the security of other regions such as europe, the arabian peninsula or south asia. the european union's commitment to the region is guided by its geostrategic importance, but also by the desire to help the people of the horn of africa and lift them out of poverty. if the people can feed themselves, through agriculture, fishing, etc., they will no longer have to resort to acts of piracy and will not succumb to the easy money of a terrorist commitment.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the tannock report on the european union strategy for the horn of africa. i particularly welcome the comprehensive approach to addressing the security and stability problems and to upholding the rule of law in this region, which is experiencing serious difficulties. i also support the concrete measures proposed, which include stepping up efforts to combat piracy.
in writing. the horn of africa is a region facing immense challenges: food, poverty, development, conflict... the lives of its inhabitants are particularly difficult. i welcome the vision of this report: to work for the stability of the horn of africa is to work for the stability of the whole region. i therefore voted in favour of this text, not only because it supports our ambitions in the field of security and humanitarian aid, but also because it urges the european authorities concerned to take account of the economic opportunities in the region for increased and shared prosperity. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission, in order to ensure that the information is available to all member states.
in writing. the political and security situation in the horn of africa is of concern. the insurgency of the al-shabab movement, the lack of governance in somalia, the scale of piracy in the indian ocean, the tensions between sudan and south sudan as well as between eritrea and ethiopia are all elements that contribute to the destabilization of the region. the result is dramatic food insecurity and thousands of refugees and internally displaced persons. the european union (eu) has adopted a comprehensive approach to the horn of africa based on security and development. the future presence of a special representative for the horn of africa and the creation of a delegation to the african union are signs of the european will to play a greater role in the region, as it already does through the atalante and eucap nestor operations, which have helped to strengthen its maritime, judicial and police capacities. the eu must not allow this strategic region in terms of trade and geopolitics to be destabilised. the affirmation of the eu's role in international development and the maintenance of global security depends on regional successes, which will confirm the validity of the european approach.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which is part of the continuity of the strategic framework for the horn of africa, adopted by the european union on 14 november 2011. in a region facing serious conflicts and insecurity, this strategic framework defined a european strategy focused on promoting human rights, peace and security, combating piracy and crime, reducing poverty and regional cooperation. the resolution proposes concrete measures to improve the implementation of this framework and stresses the need to combat piracy more effectively and to continue eu support for the intergovernmental authority on development (igad). it also called for the political transition periods in somalia, ethiopia, eritrea and south sudan to be used to provide better support to the countries in the region.
in writing. the report supports the rehabilitation of pirates in the horn of africa, sanctions for illegal dumping of waste by eu companies on the coast and condemns any support for irregular armed groups. it called for the release of political prisoners and stressed the importance of neutral and impartial eu humanitarian aid. i support her in that. but i cannot accept that this text also contains an implicit support for the logic of the economic partnership agreements which is harmful to these countries, an explicit encouragement to collaborate with nato on the ground and a request for the g20, this illegitimate body, to take the situation under control. i also denounce the support that this report shows for somaliland, an internationally unrecognised state in the hands of invicta capital. i also denounce the blind support for the grand renaissance dam project on the blue nile, on which no valid environmental expertise has been carried out. i vote against it.
in writing. we cannot tolerate the horn of africa becoming a playground for pirates, who are eager to hijack food aid, racketeer and board ships. i therefore welcome this report which sets out a strategy to stabilise this part of the world and ensure the safety of the local population and our citizens. i share the desire to step up the fight against piracy, by supporting operation atalanta, ensuring that pirates intercepted are brought to justice and recovering the ransom paid to them with the help of interpol and europol. i also support the call for the local populations to re-establish the rule of law in the region by developing their maritime intervention forces and judicial institutions. their ability to regain control of the region is crucial to restoring long-term security. until they achieve this degree of autonomy, we must continue our humanitarian, military and judicial efforts, because this is the only way to break the vicious circle of insecurity, instability and poverty in the region.
in writing. the european parliament supports the right of developing countries to benefit from their genetic resources and traditional knowledge. he advocates the fight against 'biopiracy'. this is the lucrative use by multinational companies of medicinal substances and traditional remedies from developing countries without the permission of the latter and without the benefit of the populations who discovered these active ingredients.
in writing. as rapporteur for this text for the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the member states to combat the use by the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and agri-food industries of natural resources collected in developing countries. the nagoya protocol, which aims to redistribute the benefits of this commercial exploitation between developed and developing countries by providing for the payment of compensation to the latter, is essential for this. i would remind you that in order to enter into force, this protocol adopted at the united nations conference on biodiversity in october 2010 must be ratified by at least 50 countries. to date, only nine have done so, but none in europe. 90% of the world's biological heritage is in developing countries. the vast majority of patents are held by the industrialized countries. this can't go on!
in writing. biopiracy, which involves patenting traditional knowledge and seeds of indigenous peoples in developing countries and then marketing their use without authorisation, has been practised with impunity by many multinational companies for too long. today, 90% of the world's biological heritage is in developing countries, but the majority of patents are held in developed countries. companies wishing to obtain patents for inventions involving genetic resources and traditional knowledge will now have to disclose the origin of the resources in question and provide proof of the consent of the authorities of the country of origin. such an obligation is an effective means of combating counterfeiting and of establishing fair competition in the commercial field. it also helps to preserve the diversity of genetic resources for food, agriculture and even medicine. but this patent system goes far beyond ensuring the protection of the rights of indigenous peoples and local communities and helping to protect a biodiversity that promotes the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger.
in writing. despite the will of an increasingly conservative european right and the lobbies of the pharmaceutical, cosmetics and agri-food sectors attacking the heart of my report in an attempt to weaken its content, this positive vote in plenary represents a political victory! the three key demands of developing countries were heard: the requirement for patent applicants to disclose their origin (§28 adopted by 38 votes to none), the proof of prior consent and the proof of fair and equitable sharing. meps also want to see the eu's role in the fight against terrorism strengthened, and to ensure that the eu's role in the fight against terrorism is strengthened. the ep reiterates the urgency of placing the nagoya protocol at the centre of a more coherent global governance system and of not bowing to the wto (vote on paragraph 5.2 adopted by 44 votes to none). the ep thus affirms its determination to move towards greater policy coherence for development and its firm will to put an end to bio-piracy, this new colonialism, this rush towards green gold.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to examine the consequences of intellectual property rights on genetic resources for human rights and global food security. genetic resources are the animals, plants and micro-organisms that surround us. this genetic heritage is a real "resource" for man, since it is used for agriculture, food, medicine, industry and many other activities. in recent years, the use of medicinal plants to create new medicines has become widespread. however, the patent law must not be called into question, which would weaken research. we must do everything possible to combat 'biopiracy' while ensuring a successful patent system to encourage companies to invest in expensive research programmes. the report also recommends a number of recommendations, including strengthening traceability controls in the collection of genetic resources, ensuring that the union does not create legal monopolies on biological species, and measures to be taken to better enforce the intellectual property rights of indigenous communities.
in writing. this report warns of the major ecological and social problem of bio-piracy. the commission is proposing that the eu take up the matter and work in international negotiations to combat this phenomenon. it called for the establishment of effective international justice mechanisms. it advocates "cooperation" and "sharing of benefits" rather than free competition. he is concerned about the commercialisation of traditional knowledge. it stresses the need to ensure that everyone has access to affordable medicines, which i support. i regret, however, that the text is silent on the sanctions to be applied to biopirates. i also regret, and above all, that it does not close the door on the patentability of living things. in these circumstances, i cannot possibly vote for it. i'm not going to.
in writing. the protection and conservation of genetic diversity is a key element in the achievement of the millennium development goals. genetic resources, i.e. the natural resources of the various species, are crucial for sustainable agriculture and food security. their diversity is essential for the survival of species and the resilience of the ecosystem. as a result, the depletion of genetic diversity is a fundamental challenge for humanity and poses new challenges for both holders and users of genetic resources. in this context, biopiracy, whereby biological resources are taken from local communities or indigenous populations and patented without the resulting benefits benefiting those communities, has become a major concern in developing countries. the report on aspects of the development of intellectual property rights on genetic resources reflects this problem of biopiracy and defends the rights of indigenous and local communities to their traditional resources and knowledge, and urges member states to implement a globally consistent management system. for that reason i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz, mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel, mr chancellor, mr werner faymann, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all thank you, mr chancellor, for coming here to the european parliament and for allowing us to debate with you. ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you that we in this house believe in the added value of europe, in a europe with a credible budget, because in the midst of the economic crisis it was thanks to the european budget that some member states were able to continue investing and thus reduce their deficits. the courageous decisions we have taken are beginning to bear fruit in ireland, italy, portugal and spain. in the euro area, we have succeeded in reducing debt. i think we should also remember the efforts that have been made. but above all, do not be deluded, the pressure is constant and not all our problems are solved. when we think the crisis is behind us, that's when the second crisis is brewing. i can say that because i've experienced it many times on many subjects. even today, if not in austria, europe is facing high unemployment - you mentioned that - especially among young people. in some countries, more than 55 percent of them are unemployed. it is not sustainable and the growth needed to restore employment is not yet there. we can't go on like this. but there is a way out of this: to continue to strengthen our union. we need more europe. in all areas. we need more harmonization. ladies and gentlemen, this deficit in europe is costing us dearly. firstly, from a social point of view, with the absence of common rules for retirement, treatment of unemployed and social protection. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i am not asking for harmonization of tax rates, but we could at least have the same tax bases, particularly in the euro zone. i think it's very important. it is not right that in one country there are no inheritance rights and in others very high taxes move people and distort competition. harmonization does not mean equalization, but it does mean more transparency. from an economic point of view, but also from a banking point of view, we regularly ask austria and luxembourg, mr chancellor, to implement the 2003 savings directive. bank secrecy, which allows some to evade taxation, has no place in our economic union. you said it yourself. mr chancellor, austria has benefited greatly from its accession to the union and subsequent enlargement. austrian companies are at the forefront of investment in transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe, and austrian banks are among the most dynamic in the region. but would it have been as successful without common policies such as the agricultural policy, rural development policy and regional policies, which austria has implemented in an exemplary manner? mr chancellor, i regularly carry out checks on my travels in austria and they are frequent. do not give up on these policies! let us make more, but do not let up on these policies, or you will lose many jobs too! at a time when anti-european rhetoric - and especially populism - is on the rise, it is important to remember that europe is a two-way street. we cannot, on the one hand, benefit from the single market and, on the other, in a time of crisis - as you said - refuse to help those who are in difficulty, the very people who have contributed to your success. austria will - i am convinced of this - assume its responsibility as an economic model because it has benefited from the single market. because when one country supports another country in implementing necessary reforms, it helps to strengthen the whole edifice. in a world where everything is tied up, helping each other is essential. it is a question of solidarity, but also of responsibility. today, there is no need to withdraw into yourself. on the contrary, we must invest, capitalise on the reforms we have undertaken and make the best use of a multiannual budget which is the guarantee of our renewed growth. as you said, if everyone is looking to get back a little more than the penny they gave, it is not possible in terms of solidarity. mr. chancellor, you can count on us as much as we can count on you. thank you for coming today. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr chancellor, on the social question, austria has provided us with the basis for a very good proposal at european level with the youth guarantee. thank you for this initiative, thank you for this opportunity which we have been able to seize at the european level and i hope that at the epsco council in dublin this proposal will become a european proposal so that, within four months of a young person entering a difficult situation, a solution can be found. but you have to be able to afford it. and the proposal that the commissioner has put on the table is largely based on the mobilisation of the european social fund. so, in line with this, we expect you to support the idea of proposing a 25% increase in the european social fund in the cohesion policy in the debate on the financial perspective, all within a budgetary framework which will of course finance the solidarity with which you wanted the european union to be identified. in the same spirit of solidarity, we need the greeks, for example, to be able to rebuild their tax base. and that is why jean-claude juncker, when he came to say goodbye to us the other day, told us that he hoped the germans could help the greeks to find out what the greek citizens, in a very unpatriotic way, were hiding in the coffers of the german state. we want this solidarity action to be seen at european level and to do that we need to move forward with the directive on taxation of savings. you know that your country has an absolutely critical role to play here, so that we can break out of this impasse and bring the talk of solidarity into line with the reality of the actions that a state like the greek state really expects, as a sign, at european level.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam high representative, the french commitment to mali, at the request of the president of mali and within the framework of the united nations charter, was not only legitimate and necessary, but above all it was a response to a situation of extreme urgency and major risks. we all know now that the jihadists had regrouped last week creating, incidentally, an effect of surprise, and the risk of bamako falling into their hands was very real. no democrat could take that risk, either for the malians or for the thousands of europeans, especially french, but not only, who live in bamako and who would obviously have become, from that moment, potential hostages of these jihadist groups that we have seen at work for ten months in the north of the country, persecuting, amputating, flogging, stoning in the name of sharia. and the second major risk, which no democracy can accept with the takeover of bamako by islamist militias, was that a terrorist state would have been created at the very gates of europe. it was in the interest of all, europeans and africans, to do everything possible to prevent this. that is why it was france's responsibility to intervene, alongside the malian army and alongside, tomorrow, an african force that is being set up as i speak, day after day. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate algeria, which has allowed french aircraft to fly over its territory and which has today taken steps to close its borders. but now it is up to europe to shoulder its full share of responsibility by showing active solidarity in logistical, humanitarian and military terms. the european union must therefore, of course, but you will tell us, urgently set up the training which was planned for the malian army and in which more than ten european countries are involved. we will also need the financial support of the european union for the aid to the refugees, who according to unhcr are already 150,000, and for the donor conference which the african union is planning to organise. on the military and humanitarian front, it is obviously a positive thing that many countries in the union are taking part. i am thinking in particular of britain, denmark and belgium, and germany, in terms of humanitarian aid. because what is happening in mali today concerns all europeans. it's about our safety. that is why it is so important and legitimate for european leaders to show their solidarity, their full determination to eradicate terrorism in the sahel and to work alongside african forces so that a reconciled mali can regain its territorial integrity tomorrow and that this region of the world can finally regain stability and peace.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess that i do not know why i have a strange feeling. mrs. ashton, you said "we" are concerned. everyone says "we". but there are only french soldiers there. and with this "we", if i were bad, i would say that we say to the french: "we will give you nurses and go to mali to be killed!" i know it's not like that. i know you do. but that's kind of the feeling i have and that i wanted to express first by starting this talk. otherwise, i'm all for the surgery. that's not the problem. i am simply saying that, as we all agree, we must go a little further. it's true, veronique de keyser is right when she says that we knew for a year what was being prepared in mali. france had decided, with the european union, to try to stem the problem through diplomacy and politics. it was a fair policy, i'm not criticizing it, but what i criticize is that we didn't have a plan b. what do we do if it doesn't work? france is as responsible as anyone else, because we do not have a european civil or military intervention force. that's where the stick hurts. that is what we are lacking because, in this situation, it was up to france in europe and europe, with france and the germans and the spanish, etc., to intervene, if we were concerned. there is still the problem, which is not simple, of france's relationship with a country which has a colonial past. everyone knows these things don't settle easily. the story of the "françafrique" is well known. in fact, we are now in a deficit in european construction. it is because of this deficit that france plays a role which, in my opinion, exceeds its capacity. politically, when tomorrow, mali will have to be reorganized. i believe that two years ago, we had the malian president here, who told us that he was the best bulwark against terrorism; meanwhile, we learned that he's been "colluding" with terrorists all his life... you also have a situation where mali is a failed state. it's not a capable state. we're told we're going to support the malian army. stop it, you two! stop it, you two! we're told there will be an african task force. let's stop this! perhaps there will be a real african intervention force one day, but that is not enough. this ambiguity is what prevails. mrs ashton, tomorrow, as you rightly said, we will have to rebuild and negotiate. negotiating, that will mean negotiating with terrorists, as we are forced to do with the taliban. so today europe, together with france, must create the conditions for a political solution as well as a humanitarian solution, and for this we must draw inspiration from the lessons of afghanistan. we cannot and no one can create a rule of law by military intervention; it's not working! there is therefore a space for politics and this space cannot be occupied by france alone, but by the european union. but we will only be credible if we do not leave french soldiers alone in mali. i think, as do many in french opinion, that this division of labour is unacceptable. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, of course we cannot allow an african state to fall into the hands of jihadists, whose abuses are well known. this would be a very dangerous situation for all the countries in the region. it was under the pressure of these facts that mr hollande quickly reversed one of his commitments, namely that france would not act unilaterally in africa. and yet that is precisely what has just happened. the alliances, the european union, have been completely non-existent in this case. what i would like to stress here is the very serious inconsistency of the majority of the parties represented in this house, all of whom have supported, for example, the cause of the jihadists in libya. we knew very well that by arming benghazi we were actually arming the jihadists, that by destroying the libyan regime we were going to disperse the weapons. these are the weapons, mr cohn-bendit, which were used to shoot down lieutenant boiteux, and these are the weapons which are now being used against us, and it has not stopped since you are apparently about to do the same thing again in syria. in conclusion, i would say that we must act. but what i would also like is that, perhaps, we enlist the tens of thousands of young malians who are in france and who seem to me to be more qualified than the french soldiers to defend the freedoms of their country.
madam president, madam high representative, i do not blame you for not having anticipated the offensive of the islamist groups in mali in recent days, nor did anyone else who did not foresee this movement and we could, incidentally, ask ourselves some questions in this regard. but it is a surprise, even though it is not a surprise, because this surprise offensive took place in a country, in a region, which is not unknown to us, the european union. my colleagues were lenient in reminding me that for a year everyone knew what was going on and that at some point something had to be done. it is almost two years, not one year, but two years, since the european union, the council, adopted a sahel strategy, which includes a security component, clearly identifies the threats and also clearly identifies the need for us to put in place, one day or another, robust action, under the cover of the common security and defence policy. eight months, nine months we've been talking about this training mission, which is not even a robust combat mission, a training mission. she's still not in the field. so i am happy to hear about strategy, i am happy to hear about resolutions, i am happy to hear that you adopt conclusions on thursday - and you should - but we would like to see a little action, because the credibility of the european union in matters of foreign and defence policy is not at stake in the corridors of the chanceries, or in this forum, or in the united nations. it's on the field, after all. and on the ground today, i am obliged to quote daniel cohn-bendit, who is quite right, on the ground today, there are only french soldiers, for better or for worse, unfortunately. and so, i think it is time to admit that for two years we should have been working on preventing this conflict, and nothing has been done, because of democratic inertia, political inertia, lack of leadership and lack of foresight. it's time to end this blindness. it is time to set priorities for the european union's action, and anyone who dares to say today that the islamist threat in the sahel is not a priority, i think he has no place in this house. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, madam high representative, military intervention can always be prevented if the political solution succeeds, but if it fails, we must be prepared to prevent disaster. the french intervention forces were in position. france has taken its responsibility. i want to thank you for your support. i thank the colleagues who also expressed their support for france and the soldiers who risk their lives in mali. but for our soldiers, losing their lives in mali cannot be justified by the past, and certainly not by the colonial past. losing his life today is a risk. it's different if it's shared by other countries. it is justified by the dramatic situation of the victims, but it is also justified for the future. you spoke, madam high representative, of a global approach. i would like you to commit yourself to more than just training, budgetary logistical support. we need comprehensive humanitarian support, but we also need a strategy in africa and a perspective which ensures that the european union has a genuine policy to prevent the development of terrorist forces, a security policy. i thank you for answering that question.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i sometimes get the impression that you have forgotten that the euro is the currency of the union and that without the euro there would be no single market. you pretend all day long to be so attached to the internal market. you should also, in that case, feel concerned about the future of the euro and consider that everything that is good for the united kingdom is also linked to the future of the euro.
mr president, commissioner, we are now once again looking at the issue of rating agencies, where, after six months of intensive negotiations with the council, with the support and intelligence of our rapporteur, we are arriving at a good text. of course, there will be other reforms that are needed, but i think this is an important meeting point. it's a meeting point where we define a roadmap for you. we have long proposed that the european union should consider the possibility of having an independent rating agency. this roadmap is now written. you accepted it. you're responsible for that. we here in the european parliament are counting on the commission's determination to get this started. it is not that we are breaking the thermometer, as some have thought, but in a market situation where most investors are investors from outside the european union, we need our ability to inform the markets, on an independent basis, taking into account all the data of the european economy. i am particularly pleased that, with the report we are going to vote on under the authority of mr leonardo domenici, the question of the valuation of sovereign debts to protect states when they are in a critical situation has been introduced. i think it's a good step, even if, of course, it's only a step. we are waiting for your proposals, commissioner, for this european public agency.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, welcome to the irish presidency, hi the irish presidency, thank you. i would like to point out to you, commissioner, that we are now considering - and i hope we will vote on it tomorrow - a report, which is an own-initiative report, on which we have tried to find a balance and to send backwards those who tend to take a somewhat extreme position. there are those who think that because we are going to create eurobonds or stability bonds we will be able to save ourselves a certain amount of effort - that is not at all the opinion of your rapporteur or, moreover, of the team of fictitious rapporteurs who have worked on this subject - but also not to accept certain extreme positions of refusal, in principle, without seeing three elements. firstly, there are difficulties in some member states which may be linked to disturbances in the markets and the more instruments we have that can stabilise the markets and provide liquid assets - which are also sought after, for example, by our own insurers - the better it will be for the stability of the whole. this was also recognised by the european council in june. secondly, there are aspects which are linked to the existence of a single currency. we created a currency. it is also why there is a global securities market backed by this currency. finally, there are also elements in the report which are almost intended to reinforce the measures which we have adopted in this parliament with the council and the commission since the beginning of the crisis. i am thinking, for example, of the idea of a fund which would help the states to meet the very strict commitments to reduce their debt that have been set. again, i think there are good reasons. there may be concerns, but there are also good reasons that need to be stressed and that need to be kept in mind. that is exactly what we are asking. i welcome the presence of commissioner rehn, who, in the six-pack, made commitments with us on a green paper which has since come into being. we would like to continue to study the various hypotheses without rushing, considering many different steps which, moreover, do not follow one another automatically, but which can nevertheless be conceived one after the other, to examine very seriously the obstacles - i would like to say this to the reluctant colleagues - of a constitutional nature in certain member states, or linked to the obligation to ratify the treaties. it is not at all a question of ignoring important legal obligations. nor is it a question of doing nothing under the pretext that some legal instruments should be changed. i would like to end by making a point. i think that this discussion has already brought us some progress, since some time ago the dominant idea in some of the papers of the bruegel think tank, for example, was to pool the debt that would be issued by the various member states. when you look closely at this idea, you realize that this requires an extremely strong conditionality, which is not excluded, but which would end up being extraordinarily intrusive. when you compare, for example, with what has been done - this is not the absolute model, but it is a reference point - in the united states, you realize that this allows each of the american states to issue debt and that what has gained importance and helped strengthen the dollar is the t-bill, which was issued at the level of all the states that make up the federation of the united states. it is also one of the steps - and i personally want to emphasize it - which i am glad is in this report, not to be crossed tomorrow morning, but i see that it is quite broadly in line with the concerns expressed by mr van rompuy, which are reflected in the document at the end of last year, that in front of a currency there may one day need to be a budget, and that therefore, if there are own resources in the budget, there may one day be instruments that are supervised, controlled, but which allow for joint indebtedness. i am naturally asking you to support this report, given that it is a step on a long road.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report makes three important proposals. first, it draws attention to the urgency of the introduction of eurobills to facilitate the circulation of debt and to provide room for manoeuvre. secondly, the report considers the proposals made in the commission's green paper on the guarantee to be given by the states to eurobonds. the report suggests in the annex that this guarantee should be joint and several, like that which the member states grant to the community budget. these two proposals represent an important step forward. a third proposal is under discussion. the report envisages the creation of a debt amortisation fund. i would have liked the duration of this amortisation to be more realistic, i.e. longer, because the proposed duration condemns the member states to 25 years of austerity. another criticism is that the fund is designed to pay off debt accumulated beyond a volume considered optimal. the 60% of gdp reference figure must be the subject of a rigorous and dispassionate debate, because in economics, the debt of some is the savings of others. the debate is therefore continuing, and this report, which i hope will be adopted by a large majority, is a milestone. unfortunately, some people continue to deny the urgency of eurobonds, while others continue to fear the laxity of the governments which are implementing the biggest austerity package the world has ever seen. it therefore remains to convince these sceptics that eurobonds can be a formidable instrument for mobilising savings and for financing solidarity and growth.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, let me thank ms goulard for preparing the ground for a very substantive and forward-looking debate and thank all honourable members for their contributions to this discussion and to the resolution. let me conclude by referring to the commission’s blueprint which was published in november last year and presents a possible road map towards a deep and genuine economic and monetary union. it could ultimately include common debt instruments, that is stability bonds in some form, which could be the way forward with the blueprint for a deeper and genuine economic and monetary union. as already said, the steps outlined in the blueprint assume that the two-pack will be adopted first. my understanding is that an agreement on the actual regulations or the actual real content of the two-pack is already as good as achieved between the council and parliament. the final finishing touches pending can be finalised soon provided that there is the will to adopt the two-pack and reinforce the euro’s foundation. but the adoption of the legislative proposal is now being held hostage by requirements that the commission make future commitments on the implementation of the blueprint. i do not think that this is the right way of doing this. an essential feature of the blueprint is the sequencing and requirements for further steps towards deeper economic and political integration and these steps include important initiatives to promote sustainable growth and jobs for citizens, including a specific financial instrument to support economic reforms in member states. i therefore appeal to you to allow our joint efforts to continue and the community method to prevail over other methods. so please do not hold back progress towards a more stable and prosperous economic and monetary union by insisting that the commission should be doing something impossible at this stage. in a nutshell, a deal on the two-pack remains a necessary condition for any real progress towards a more stable, deeper and genuine economic and monetary union. this is a test of europe’s credibility on our road towards a stability union of both responsibility and solidarity.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i would like to thank all those who took the time to read the report. they'll know we're not touching the rule of law. we simply consider it as potentially modifiable. we can also consider changing the treaties one day, for example. that is what we are saying in the report, quite simply. those who have read it will also have noticed that we do not present eurobonds as a panacea, but as one tool among others. they will also have seen that we are not opposed to structural reforms. as for colleagues who are personalising or exaggerating, i have no desire to answer them at all. i will therefore conclude by telling the commissioner that i have received the message about the two-pack, that we have always worked very well, but that there are simply two of us. and even in this case, there are three of us to tango, and maybe that's why we're having a little trouble. however, if the council hears the demands made by parliament, i believe we can close the two-pack fairly quickly. but for us, codecision cannot be 'the council sets the rules and parliament follows'.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the various fictitious rapporteurs on their work, which has been particularly constructive. so it was not as tense as you imagine, commissioner. the important efforts made by both sides have borne fruit and parliament is now in a position to adopt this report by a large majority. this compromise represents a significant step forward in the debate on budgetary policies. the report proposes balanced solutions, which are different from the dogma of austerity, which has done so much damage in europe since the crisis began. it is pragmatically looking at solutions to reconcile growth and debt reduction, a pragmatism that europe has been so lacking since 2009. three main ideas are presented in this report. firstly, recovery also requires productive public investment and requires the use of automatic stabilisers, such as national pension systems. this is a crucial point, because without growth there can be no fiscal consolidation. secondly, the report asks the commission to publish the assumptions used in the estimates of the multiplier and the structural deficit of the member states. if the recent imf revaluations of the multiplier are correct, a consolidation strategy centred on budget cuts could plunge europe into a lasting recession. the report therefore argues that tax reform, aimed at increasing revenue, can also be an important part of consolidation policies. the commission's proposals are not only a means of ensuring that the community's financial resources are used effectively, but also a means of ensuring that the community's financial resources are used effectively. we therefore hope that this report will serve as an inspiration for the commission's work and the council's deliberations.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like just to repeat, we have had this discussion numerous times so there is not such great confusion. the commission has no intention of authorising, the european modular system – there are various names for this – or gigaliners to be used all over europe. i strongly support the opinion that this must be left in the hands of the member states. if a member state allows these bigger trucks to be used, as happens in northern countries, then it is in the hands of the member states, and if there are countries where the population does not like them then it is up to their governments to decide that these cannot be used. i think this is the only possible way to deal with this issue. we do not have any intention of authorising the use of bigger trucks in all member states. i want to say that this amendment to this directive includes a great many positive changes in weights and dimensions in order to make trucks more environmentally friendly and more efficient as well. this is why i listed these at the beginning. some member states, as you know very well, have allowed bigger trucks, including several ‘lands’ in germany. there are various reports. some reports say we have had impact assessments, and we have different assessments of the situation, and the various reports do, as mr bach said, give various answers to these questions. that was the issue on which our opinions conflicted and where the problem was created. i admit too that giving a legal answer to a letter which asked what was the legal interpretation was a mistake. we consulted parliament’s legal service with, as you know, all the members of the committee on transport present when we discussed these issues and we thought that it would be enough if we gave legal explanations, and if countries allow the use of bigger trucks they can also cross borders under certain conditions and these conditions are listed. i agree that this could of course have been handled differently. i admit that this was a mistake. i can clearly say that this was our mistake and it could of course be handled with this directive, linked to this directive, and within this directive in parliament and now it is a possibility. so we consider that parliament has full powers during this discussion about amendments to this directive to make whatever amendments – to vote for this amendment, to vote against that amendment – and so this issue must now be settled in this way. it is now for the members of the european parliament, for the committee on transport, to form an opinion about the possibilities of crossing borders between the member states. so far the legal explanation exists. our legal opinion is that these are bigger trucks; if member states allow them to be used then they can also cross borders. about weight sensors: weight sensors are very expensive and we were reluctant to include them in this directive, so they have not been included. they are very expensive and we promote the voluntary use of these sensors. of course, from what i just said i can clearly answer that no infringement procedure has been launched against member states which have allowed their bigger european modular system trucks to cross the borders.
uachtarán-in-oifig sa chomhairle. − a uachtaráin, a uachtaráin an choimisiúin eorpaigh, a cheannairí na ngrúpaí polaitiúla atá anseo agus a fheisirí pharlaimint na heorpa ar fad – ba mhaith liom a rá libh i dtús go bhfuil mé fíorbhuíoch díobh as ucht an seans a bheith againn díospóireacht a bheith eadrainn faoi phríomhaidhmeanna uachtaránacht na héireann. this is ireland’s seventh presidency, begun on the 40th anniversary of our joining what was then the european community. the irish people made a good decision. in those 40 years we have travelled well and travelled far and we have never looked back. but our atlantic island has long been at the very ‘heart’ of europe. actually, in the sixth and seventh centuries our monks and educators, columbanus and cillian among them, left in their small boats to bring the light of learning to the european mind. today ireland keeps that faith with our continent, with our union of peoples. we keep that faith because of our particular idea of europe. an idea that says despite our national differences as a people we dwell deepest and best always in the shelter and never in the shadow of the other. we must work hard and together to renovate, to restore and to renew our union. so it is in that spirit of doing – that spirit of renewing – that ireland assumes with some pride and some honour this, its seventh presidency. in those 40 years, just as our union has been transformed, so too has membership of the european union transformed our country. in 1973 our exports were primarily agricultural and they went primarily to britain. today irish companies export high-tech goods and services across europe and around the world. we also host over 1 000 foreign companies critical to our capacity to recover and to strengthen our economy. it was in november 2010 that ireland entered an eu-imf support-programme. our people continue to labour under the weight of bank-related debt. austerity has brought pain and suffering to many families and to many homes. but the irish people have borne that weight and that pain with remarkable courage and patience and dignity. and it is in that story, those qualities and the deeper authentic elements of ireland such as respect, and vision and compassion, and loyalty that i bring to the european parliament today. and because of our people, and because of those qualities i am happy to report to you that ireland is taking steps on the road to recovery. we have honoured all, and i mean all, of our eu-imf commitments through seven troika analyses. last year our economy started to grow again, our exports actually climbed to record levels. we are bringing government spending under control. internationally, investors are showing a new confidence in ireland. the result has been seen in lower yields on irish government bonds in recent times. those recent bond sales show the market confidence that once ebbed is now beginning to return. as a nation, let me say to you, that we are determined to exit the eu-imf programme before the end of this year. we face many challenges up ahead and our economy is still fragile, but i believe that 2013 will be the year in which ireland will exit this programme and shows leadership to europe. but europe too needs to steady itself after this crisis driven period and return to stability. that is why ireland’s presidency will be all about stability, jobs, and growth. in our previous presidencies, let me tell this august membership, we focused on results and we intend to do the same again. we will work very closely with you, the elected members of the peoples of europe here in this parliament, whose increased importance is growing in influence – it puts you at the very heart of the business of the european union. we have worked hard in preparing for this presidency. we have re-invested in our european relationships. and because we have, the depth of that relationship, the breadth of our understanding has never been greater or indeed deeper. we are taking those better relationships to our people. our citizens of this union need to know and they need to see that we are working in their interest to restore confidence and trust, not alone in the national parliaments, but equally and crucially in the democratic ideal of the european union itself. it is important that people understand and that they feel that returning confidence. certainly the concept of europe can be difficult. some people wish that ‘europe’ was simpler, was less complex, and less institutionalised. but as someone who is passionate about europe, i am convinced that european people can be both inspired and motivated about what we actually do in europe and what together we can actually achieve. all across this union people need jobs and they look to us, to europe, for support. from the atlantic to the urals, people want and they need security. the security that will allow them to live better, safer, and more prosperous lives. our union is unique in its success in responding to these issues if we work together. it inspires others in their capacity to do likewise. our ability to work together and to commit to achieving results is really what matters to our citizens. in this year of 2013, the year of the citizen, we have to be ready to argue and debate the very ‘why?’ of europe. yes, i agree with those who might say that sometimes our response is not sufficiently clear. but what we have done well, when we have done it well together, has been outstanding. you all know from the wreckage of war we created a peaceful, united, democratic union of peoples and we did all of this within a heartbeat, as steiner said, ‘of the possibility of there being no europe at all’. the awarding of the nobel peace prize to europe last year recognised that achievement. ireland knows in its own way the pain and the suffering of violence. we have also been lucky enough to see what dialogue and understanding between communities can lead to: the historic reconciliation of two communities and the peace agreement on our island. these last weeks in ireland have seen some attempts by some to threaten that very hard won peace. but let me assure you, small groups of disparate, unrepresentative, trouble-makers will never succeed in bringing northern ireland and its peoples back to that dark place. i want to pay tribute today to the european union for its long and its unswerving support for the peace process over many long years in our country. i pay tribute especially to the european parliament for the faith that you have kept with all who wanted and all who worked for peace on our island. that support fortifies our resolve to ensure that the people of northern ireland can look forward to an end to this disruption of their much-valued peaceful stability. as we know, and as we see, the current economic crisis is impacting deeply on our people. in some countries, including ours, that impact has been even deeper. the deepest hurt of all is that of unemployment – 26 million people unemployed in this union, facing another day with no work to go to. particularly for our young people, their confidence eroded, but worse still their hopes eroded. no unemployment figure is acceptable. however, we cannot and we will not as democrats allow a situation where a generation grows up believing that their political leaders have failed to give them a reasonable opportunity in life. because it is they who are democracy’s future, who are our future and who are europe’s future. what matters most to our young people leaving school and university? it is the chance and the opportunity of work. the dignity of a job and the opportunity to contribute. this is the challenge of our generation. this is the political challenge of our generation. there is no simple solution to the problem, but it is a challenge that we will meet head on. we will prioritise within that the youth employment package and the youth guarantee. completing the single market, removing those barriers to business, increasing trading opportunities, improving competitiveness are all critical in improving the environment for jobs and the opportunity for economies to grow. the next phase of europe’s recovery will involve untapping the full potential of the single market. we will be ambitious in our presidency for progress on the professional qualifications directive, on the posting of workers directive and on pensions portability, the public procurement package also has the potential to contribute significantly to the marketplace for our smes. we also have to reflect the way we live in a new age of technology in a digital single market and all the potential that this carries with it. we will want to see how we prioritise progress on e-signatures, high-speed broadband, collective rights management, and data protection. this union needs a stable basis for its challenging work. we just had a meeting with your president. we need adequate multiannual financing. the mff is a priority which i have discussed with president schulz and the conference of presidents. our government has prepared hard for our presidency. the european council has made considerable progress in narrowing the very large differences between member states. but more work and more negotiation, and long and hard discussions, are needed, and needed soon. i will spare no effort in our presidency in working with herman van rompuy with the aim of securing agreement on the mff at the european council. but as presidency, we will discuss this with you as parliament. you are critical partners in this. it cannot be done without you. that authority was enshrined in the lisbon treaty. i recognise that as a politician. i recognise that as a prime minister. this is a codecision process and everyone must understand that. i believe it is very much in our interest, and in europe’s interest, that we have an early agreement on this. after that, we will work with you, mr president, and your parliament to advance across the range of instruments so that there can be a stable basis for the union’s programmes by the end of 2013. important work clearly on cap reform and cfp reform, horizon 2020 and on structural funds needs early attention. we owe that to our citizens. difficult times require difficult choices for us all. a fair and a balanced agreement, even if imperfect, is better than no agreement. stability is needed, above all in the financial sector and the area of economic governance. parliament and council have to agree on the two-pack very soon. the european semester process is a real step forward in how we govern our economies. but you have pointed out shortcomings in terms of democratic accountability of the system and we are ready to contribute to such a discussion in the time ahead. in june 2012, the euro area heads of state and government determined and made a decision to sever the toxic link between banking and sovereign debt as well as improving specifically, and referring to it, the sustainability of our own country’s adjustment programme. we are determined to see that these decisions actually happen, and are seen to happen. it is very important for citizens to understand that political decisions arrived at are delivered on. people want to see that. we will work to achieve a real banking union. that has to be among the union’s top priorities, including early adoption of the single supervisory mechanism and the other elements of a banking union. we look forward to agreement with parliament on crd iv also, where we have made good progress. the world in which we live has now become smaller, from a communications perspective, it makes europe’s role and europe’s responsibility more important than ever before. the irish people’s commitment to human rights and to international aid has been exemplary. at almost any field clinic in the world, any food depot, any of the long-forgotten parts on this globe, you will hear an irish voice and you will get an irish view. we will use our presidency to strengthen the union’s approach to fighting global hunger and global poverty. we will work closely in support of the efforts of the high representative/vice-president ashton to strengthen the role of the european union in bringing peace to troubled regions such as syria, iran, mali and somalia. on the matter of trade, we see real potential to increase europe’s trade with strategic partners. i know from my days as minister of trade myself how important this is. we have great hopes of opening the free trade negotiations between the european union and the us. we believe the time is right to do so. important negotiations will also take place where we hope to conclude discussions and agreements with japan, india, canada and the countries of asean region. we are under no illusions that this will be easy: there are vast sensitive issues that will arise. but because we know the benefits of what we have forged among ourselves in our single market, we must try to seize the potential benefits of increasing trade with other global players. the prize of success here is simply enormous in terms of the capacity to grow economies and create enormous numbers of jobs. one of the most important days in the eu’s long and proud history was on 1 may 2004 when ireland’s presidency welcomed ten new members into the european union. this presidency will also prioritise a credible enlargement policy. we look forward to greeting the croatian people as full members on 1 july of this year. for those countries in negotiations, each at a different stage, we will work to advance the process with iceland, turkey, and montenegro. important decisions may also be taken on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, serbia, albania, and kosovo during ireland’s term. let me say this in conclusion, the crisis of jobs in the european community so preoccupies us that there is always a risk of losing sight of what we hold and what we have actually achieved. europe remains among the best places in the world in which to live, not just economically, but culturally and socially. above all because we have a peace, indeed a precious peace, we are committed to and that we have made together over the years. no wonder so many countries aspire to join us to become part of our european family, to feel pride in being part of the european family. i believe that in 2012 we saw the passing of possibly the worst of the economic crisis – the fear that the euro itself might not survive was confronted and was dispelled emphatically and we now move on to the challenges of recovering and putting europe into recovery and development mode. i know that this does not console many of our citizens or our families who have lost jobs, who do not need to read about the crisis because they live it every day. they and their experience strengthen our resolve. and it is for their sake that we push on and push harder with actions to bring stability, new jobs, new growth to the union and reinstil hope and confidence in our people’s lives. it is necessary to build trust, be clear and be decisive about what we do in that regard. this european union is not some exclusive, some distant pavilion. this union is a family, sometimes it is boisterous, anxious, fretful, joyful – but it is always compassionate and it has always been faithful. so ireland’s presidency will be about our european family. today and for the next six months, for ireland’s part we will give all our heart to solving a number of europe’s problems. i believe we can do no less. for this is the outstanding task of our generation, the ultimate challenge of politics for those entrusted with the democratic responsibility of leadership. let us together resolve that in this task we will not fail. (applause)
member of the commission. − mr president, every presidency is a landmark, but this time it is particularly true. this is the seventh time ireland has held the presidency and it is also the 40th anniversary of ireland’s accession to the european union. as such it is a reminder of the past achievements of our union, the current challenges and the future work ahead of us, as we seek not to replicate the past but to build a better future. i am indeed convinced that having ireland at the helm of the rotating presidency of the council at this juncture will be good for ireland and good for europe. last week the commission met in dublin with the taoiseach and the irish government to discuss our shared priorities. together, we stressed the need to lay the foundations for lasting growth and job creation. stability, growth and jobs: these are the priorities ireland has set for its presidency programme, priorities which i very much welcome and which have been at the heart of the commission’s actions since the start of the crisis. as i said to this house yesterday during the debate on the cyprus presidency, we have by the end of 2012 achieved much in the way of stability. the forecasts of the doomsayers who predicted the implosion of the euro have been proved wrong. european institutions and countries have shown, through their actions, that we will stand together, the union as a whole, to face the challenges ahead. we all know that there is very important and difficult work to do to achieve the goal of sustainable growth, and i underline sustainable because we have seen in the past that artificial growth fuelled by irresponsible public or private debt is simply not viable. while going on with further steps to a deeper economic and monetary union – and in this context the approval of the two-pack comes to mind as an urgent priority – we must pursue fiscal consolidation, enact economic reforms for competitiveness and also make targeted investments for growth, and above all we need to tackle the very serious social situation that we have in too many of our member states. let me start with the short-term steps to put in place the banking union. it is good that the member states were able to find consensus on the single supervisory mechanism just three months after the commission proposal. i now hope that parliament and the council will be able to finalise the agreement as quickly as possible in the next weeks. this is a key test to demonstrate that the european union has the political will and capacity to act quickly on the big issues. an agreement on the single supervisory mechanism also shows that we can reach agreement within the european union as a whole on deepening the euro area, and as you know we are clearly attached to the principles of the integrity – not only of the integrity of the single market but the integrity of our union – while accepting and indeed promoting the deepening of the emu. reaching political agreement on the proposal in time for discussion at your plenary session in early february is not impossible with political will. parliament has worked on this very efficiently and the thyssen and giegold reports are constructive and supportive, and in very many points rather similar to the approach taken by the council. the commission will do everything it can to facilitate and assist in the intensive trialogue discussions to deliver final agreement on this important piece of legislation. i know the importance this house attaches to the next stage of banking union – the single resolution mechanism. proposals are already before you which should allow for the harmonisation of national bank resolution tools. but to completely break the vicious link between bank failure and sovereign debt, we need to go further and provide for a single resolution mechanism to match the single supervision we are putting in place for the euro area and other member states which wish to participate. this raises some very complex legal and technical issues, but we are determined to work through these quickly and aim to present a proposal before the summer. i consider this a matter of utmost political priority. stability means more than financial stability. we must increase our efforts to ensure economic and social stability. of course, economic growth is the best means to generate employment and to improve the social situation. the single market is the union’s largest engine for growth. to release the full benefits of the single market we are pushing forward with the two single market acts. i welcome the irish presidency’s commitment to securing the adoption of the proposals already on the table. the commission will present the remaining single market act 2 legislative proposals this spring. in all of this we look forward to continuing the very good cooperation with this house to ensure that legislation is not only put on the statute books but is implemented as soon as possible to the benefit of all our citizens. of course, creating opportunities within the single market is one thing, taking advantage of the opportunities is another. this is why we will work to implement the action plan for entrepreneurship and place a particular focus on smes to ensure that these opportunities are translated into increased economic activity and more jobs. we have all committed to growth through our europe 2020 strategy and the compact on growth and jobs. but the time has come to make good on this commitment. this will be driving europe’s work over the irish presidency and beyond, as made clear in the commission’s annual work programme. as leverage for growth and investment, we must have an agreement on the multiannual financial framework. it is a new year but the message remains the same, and it remains equally valid: the european budget is the budget for investment growth and jobs at the european level. now is the time for governments to match actions to their rhetoric: if you state that growth in europe is vital for your national economy then you need to support european measures to promote that growth. i hope that the european council will agree on the mff very soon, probably at the beginning of february. but governments should not forget that while their agreement is necessary it is not sufficient; the european parliament’s approval is also indispensable. the commission has and will continue to focus on supporting employment. last april we presented the employment package with a set of key measures to support job creation, to restore the dynamics of the labour market and to enhance the eu’s governance. in december, the commission presented a proposal to combat youth unemployment: the youth guarantee scheme is a concrete measure with renewed potential to enhance school-to-work transitions and ensure every young person gets into further education, training, an apprenticeship or a job within four months. the commission has also called for urgent action in rethinking education: maximising the investments in skills is indeed essential to achieve better socioeconomic outcomes. in our discussions with taoiseach kenny and the irish government i have been heartened by the importance that the irish presidency will place on these issues, in particular its commitment to reach agreement on the youth guarantee next month already. the solution to our social crisis is not to abandon the european social model. the solution is to recognise the immense challenges that globalisation poses for european competitiveness and to reform our social market economy, addressing the important issues of competitiveness. the commission is preparing a social investment package with a set of focused and concrete actions on how these reforms can take shape in our member states and what the european union can do to support them. ultimately, european stability is also provided by confidence and confidence comes out of a clear, realistic and achievable vision of the future, and that means for europe’s future architecture. plans for deeper economic and monetary union help generate stability by showing investors that there is a clear vision for the future. over the course of this year the commission will, building on the blueprint we presented last year, set out in a more detailed manner the steps needed to deepen economic and monetary union, including a social dimension in the emu and the necessary accompanying steps towards political union. i am confident that during the irish presidency we will look beyond our european borders. the world economy is changing beyond recognition, with new centres of growth appearing and the pace of globalisation increasing. europe needs to be an active global player to benefit from worldwide economic potential and to promote our values. europe has indeed lots of advantages. despite the current difficulties, europe’s average debt-to-gdp ratio is 82.5 %, compared to the united states’ rate of 103 % and japan’s nearly 230 %. and – and this fact is less well known – unlike other major industrialised economies that have been losing parts of the world market, the european union has preserved its share of the world market, but of course with very important differences among member states of the european union. we will continue to deepen economic ties with both our well established strategic partners and the dynamic emerging economies. we look forward to the approval, now that the negotiations have been concluded, of the singapore fta and we look forward to completing fta negotiations with canada and to starting negotiations with japan. we will pursue with vigour our negotiations with india, malaysia and vietnam. we will also set out a clear vision on deepening economic ties with the united states, which remains our single most important economic partner. and in spite of everything that we hear in these times, the reality is that the economic relationship between the european union and the united states is by far the most important one in the world. nor must we neglect our neighbours to the south and to the east. our relations with these countries are a reminder that our trade policy, indeed all our external economic policy from assistance to energy, transport to research, is not just vital for our economic interests but for europe’s capacity to play a significant, constructive role at the global level. allow me to conclude with a remark on ireland, which has shown an impressive commitment to implementing the economic adjustment programme. the irish people have had to make great sacrifices to ensure the recovery of the country and so have the people of greece, portugal, spain, but also other countries which carry out difficult but indispensable reforms. the irish case shows that, provided there is the political will to accompany the sacrifices, programmes can and do work and reform can go hand in hand with social cohesion. economic growth in ireland was stronger than expected at the end of last year, the deficit is lower than predicted and ireland has already made a first successful return to financial markets. of course, important challenges remain, especially tackling unemployment and reducing further the very high deficit. the commission will stand by ireland, as we will stand with the other programme countries in particular. the commission supports all measures that will improve market confidence and increase public support for the reform process. in parallel, i have always made and will always make the case for the need for solidarity and for the need for fairness in the european union. as i mentioned in my introduction, ireland has been an active and valued member of the european union for 40 years. it has greatly benefited from its membership in the past, and through its presidency of the european union will have an important role in shaping the new european union for the future to the benefit of this generation and generations to come. the great poet william butler yeats commenced his collection ‘responsibilities’ with the sentence: ‘in dreams begins responsibility’. i would add ‘in responsibility begins action’ and over the next six months there will be plenty of action, from the presidency, from the commission and i am certain too from this parliament, and i am sure that the six months of the irish presidency of the council will be an irish and european success story. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the parliament, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the irish presidency, i would naturally like to wish you success. but i would also like to congratulate you, dear enda kenny, to congratulate you on the extraordinary efforts you have made to reverse the trend and overcome the economic recession. the evidence is that investment is back in ireland, which is great news for jobs. you've made some difficult but necessary decisions. for example, you have delayed the retirement age, which will increase from 65 to 66 next year, to 67 in 2021 and to 68 in 2028. since 2008, you have achieved a fiscal consolidation of 18% of your gdp. your government is in the process of balancing its budget. you're leading the way in europe, and that makes me want to make you a proposition. i could bail you out, at the european level, to lower the interest rates you're borrowing at. this is how, when budgets are balanced, in the medium term we can pool the debt; this is european solidarity. and the sooner it happens to those who do good work, the better off they'll be. and you have taken all these decisions without losing the support of the irish people, who voted in the referendum with 60% in favour of the budget treaty. these efforts are not in vain. on the contrary, they are tangible. but as you know, your lasting success will come only if you continue on this path. this is not the time to give in - there is nothing worse than letting go of the effort when the pressure is down and the first positive results appear - otherwise, you risk a second attack, worse than the first, and i have experienced several in my life. this has been our guiding principle for over two years. there is no solidarity without responsibility, and solidarity must be even more so for those who have shown themselves to be responsible and exemplary, such as ireland, which has played its part by adhering to the letter of the programme. if ireland gets the programme up and running on time, and comes out of it with a healthy financial health, we are all actually winning. mr president, the priorities of the irish presidency are our priorities: stability, growth and job creation. and, as i have often said, europe needs sustainable growth. today, 90% of the world's growth is no longer in europe. we're often tempted to reinvent the world. and in the not so distant past it was decided - and we have spoken about this a lot in this parliament - that our economic future was solely in services. there was no room, or almost no room, for industry. where are the services today? not in europe, at least. so does the industry. but industry is essential for jobs and europe must continue to rely on industry and, above all, i will always remind you, to protect the jobs we have and to defend the creation of new jobs. for this too, we need real european policies, more integration. we need common policies like those which have contributed to our success - you know some of them in ireland: cohesion, agricultural policy - european policies which support longterm investment, european innovation policies which offer real synergy in research and development, but a research and development policy decided at european level. you can't just put money on this or that file. we need a real research and development policy. our economy will only be competitive if we take this path. what if we work towards more tax and social harmonization? and i repeat that harmonization does not mean standardization. our economies are interconnected. we have a single market. is it not a great instrument for finding european solutions to our 26 million unemployed? for all these reasons we must strengthen our economic and monetary union and for the same reasons we need a credible european budget, able to rise to the challenge of reviving our economy. mr prime minister, hold on! parliament is with you. ireland is an example of recovery. i am sure that your presidency will be a presidency of european recovery and, my dear enda kenny, i will repeat the slogan that is dear to me: 'you are a great politician, but you are also a head of state'. you know the difference. if the politician wants to be re-elected, the statesman must ensure the future of generations. we are counting heavily on you and wish you a successful irish presidency. the whole of europe will benefit.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take you at your word, mr kenny, since you have said that you want a union policy which is responsible, a union policy which is geared towards stability of employment and growth. the president of the commission has followed you in this direction. we can tell whatever we want. if we want to pursue a policy of growth and recovery, we must have money; otherwise you will only be making speeches. unless ireland is the country where speeches create jobs, we will have to find a solution at some point. you said that we needed a credible multiannual financial framework. so we need a credible agreement. the problem is that this agreement is precisely "credible". what the council is putting on the table is not credible and will not help create jobs. moreover, it is a proposal which is conservative, structurally conservative. why would you do that? because france and others will defend their claim on the common agricultural policy, while others will defend their claim on regional policies. and everything that is oriented towards the future, that is to say towards youth, towards innovation, towards research, all of this will be passed on to the ace. that is exactly what is envisaged in the proposals. so if you respect your philosophy of credibility, you will not get anywhere with this multiannual proposal. that's where i don't understand ireland. the only way out of the impasse of the member states' problems is indeed through own resources. and what are own resources? it's the financial transaction tax. if it were european, this tax would bring in, according to the commission, 55 billion a year. this is more than half the european budget. you can therefore, with own resources, have the capacity to have a credible and valid european budget, while reducing national contributions in part. it's a win-win. but then the european council would lose its political power over the budget. take the example of the common agricultural policy. a proposal has been made to cap to cap, in french, so that everyone understands what farmers are getting. the proposal is to cap what farmers would earn at €100,000. 82% of european farmers have no more than 15 000 euros. only the queen of england has more. that is why mr cameron is against capping, because it would take money from the queen of england. that's what you have to tell them! that's the truth! i certainly do! if we remain conservative in the sense that we do not have the capacity to create a european budget with our own resources, we will not be able to create what young people need, because if you want a youth employment policy, you need an investment policy. mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that if you want to rise to the challenges we are facing, you must get out of the rut of conservatism that is proposed by the multiannual budget. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr prime minister, madam minister, madam commissioner, i note that the irish commissioner is present. i would like to say to you, mr prime minister, that even if you are not in the same political group, she is doing an excellent job and you can be proud of her. mr prime minister, a word first about the troika. you are entering 2013, the last year before the end of the current mandate. we did not sense in your speech any dynamism or momentum for the troika between ireland, lithuania and greece, which will end with the european elections in 2014. could you tell us a little bit about that? i also wonder, mr prime minister, if you could not play a role of a link in the chain with the united kingdom. the british prime minister will be giving a speech the day after tomorrow. you can feel him in a kind of confusion about his political thinking. if he announces a referendum on the uk's perimeter or its withdrawal, it will probably be followed by scotland's withdrawal from the united kingdom. it may be that he is playing the stability of a major state within the european union. i am one of those who deplore this development and wish that we should retain within the union this great state, the united kingdom, the second largest army in the world. therefore, could you not play a role as a link to bring some wisdom to the british prime minister? as far as schengen is concerned, your country belongs to the euro area but not to the schengen area. do you not envisage moving ireland in this direction, assuming that the united kingdom moves away from the european union? could you not get closer to that by joining the schengen area? the last point concerns the political presence. we have a terrible lack of political links with the heads of state and government in our parliament. i congratulate your excellent minister for european affairs, who did a good job in the plenary yesterday. could you, mr prime minister, come and meet us more often, particularly at the preparatory meetings of the european councils, since you are the president of the general affairs council, which is responsible for preparing the european councils? in any case, we are very much in demand for very direct relations with you. mr. prime minister, good luck and good courage for your presidency.
madam president, mr prime minister, i would like to wish you all the best for your presidency, because the scale of the task is enormous and the first challenge is to reach agreement on the financial perspective. you said, "a deal is better than no deal". i say: 'it is better not to place the union's budget below the level of 2008', which would mean that we would be unable to translate our ambition into action, to translate our ambitions for growth and employment into practice. we must devote ourselves to it. we cannot simply condemn the europeans to strict measures. europeans cannot pay for the crisis with their savings, their work and their jobs. we must reassure them and, of course, start with the young. this is our first challenge and i think that the irish presidency at the epsco council in february must be able to make progress in this direction, because - as you have said - it is our obligation. but we must also strengthen the europe of solidarity. i am thinking in particular of the employees who have been affected by the restructuring. i also think of the victims of poverty and i count on you. your list is already long, but i would like to add to it the funding of the european union's food aid programme. we're playing big with this funding. if europe is not able to take into account the year dedicated to citizens, to also take on the financing of the first right - the right to food, the right to health - we can always talk about the rest. we won't be credible. finally, i am a member of the committee on industry, research and energy and i thank you, mr prime minister, for the announcements made on the pan-european fibre optic research project. i think that this is a major asset and a practical way of doing business with investment. i thank you again and congratulate you. of course, count on me to do my part in the effort necessary to achieve success.
madam president, i would simply ask for a little respect for the commissioners and prime ministers in this chamber, and i would ask you not to give the prime minister the floor until there is silence in the chamber. we have all the time in the world. and if we vote in an hour, that's fine, but make sure you respect discipline. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would just like to make a point. i read the verdict. normally, the 2013 calendar has been canceled. therefore, since the calendar has been cancelled, if i listen to my colleague, it means that from monday we cannot sit anywhere, not even in brussels. so that leaves us three months to think about how to organize ourselves in 2013. (the request for an adjournment of the vote was rejected)
mr president, i am pleased that today the european parliament has voted on a new timetable, taking account of the decision of the court of justice of the european union. it has said the right thing, it has stated very clearly and very explicitly that it is in strasbourg that the 12 plenary sessions of our parliament should be held, 12 plenary sessions a year. it was important that the law be reaffirmed, that the spirit and the letter of the treaties be made clear once again, and that we, the european parliamentarians, be the first to take care to respect the spirit and the letter of the treaties. we do not need to look back at the history of our continent, at the symbol that strasbourg represents for reconciliation between the peoples of europe, to understand that it is in strasbourg that the heart of european parliamentary democracy vibrates and lives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this purely administrative text which makes it possible to determine the timetable for the european parliament's meetings, in particular by fixing the dates of the plenary sessions.
in writing. the original calendar for the european parliament for 2013 provided for "two plenary sessions in one" in october, as was the case in 2012. however, the european court of justice has ruled that parliament must hold 12 plenary sessions in strasbourg, as required by the treaties. it was as a result of this judgment that this new calendar was proposed. the report provides for two weeks of plenary sessions in october. i voted for this new calendar because concentrating two plenary sessions in one week was neither sustainable nor credible. i would like to remind you, however, that the green group has long been calling for a real debate on the two seats (brussels and strasbourg) leading to real proposals to reduce the financial and environmental cost of travel to and from strasbourg.
in writing. i welcome the change in the calendar of the european parliament's sessions for 2013 which enshrines the primacy of law over the personal considerations of members. this revision follows the judgment of the court of justice of the eu delivered on 13 december 2012 which upheld france's right to organise the 12 plenary sessions of the european parliament. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european parliamentary assembly, which would be the first to be established in the eu. i am sorry to see the opponents of the siege of strasbourg withdraw their shields. i find this disunity on the most important symbol of the european union extremely regrettable at a time when we should be united more than ever. as we prepare to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the elysée treaty which sealed franco-german friendship, those members who are so quick to challenge the strasbourg seat should be just as zealous in demanding the repatriation of all the european institutions and agencies to brussels which are certainly just as essential to parliamentary work.
in writing. i voted in favour of adopting the revised calendar of the european parliament's plenary sessions for 2013, restoring the normal schedule provided for in the treaties. the latter require not only that the european parliament meet in 12 periods of plenary sessions but also that these 12 periods be of equivalent duration, as the court of justice of the european union pointed out in its judgment of 13 december 2012. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. the new calendar as adopted allows for the re-establishment of 12 full plenary sessions for 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment to the calendar of parliament's sessions for 2013, which sets out 12 four-day plenary sessions during which meps meet in strasbourg. the european court of justice ruled on 13 december that parliament's calendar was invalid because it did not respect the treaties. these are very clear, parliament is based in strasbourg, where the 12 periods of monthly plenary sessions, including the budget session, are held.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive to update the safety requirements for dangerous preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions consisting of two or more substances (chemical elements and their compounds). this will ensure very high standards for chemicals used in europe, for the health and well-being of all citizens. in order to ensure that the existing legislation could continue to function at its best, it was necessary to bring some of its legal and technical aspects into line. the amendments made by this vote are motivated by the need to update the text, in accordance with both the lisbon treaty and the adopted european legislation on chemicals (reach), in the interests of clarity and precision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to set out the commission's capacity to adopt delegated acts in the context of the common fisheries policy. for example, if the measures taken by the member state are not considered satisfactory, the commission may, under certain conditions, supplement the basic act.
in writing. i supported this report on the management of protected fishing areas as it is an update of the comitology procedure following the adoption of the treaty of lisbon in the regulation on fisheries in the mediterranean.
in writing. this report seeks to deny the commission the right to delegate powers to the european parliament and governments in the field of fisheries and ecology. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it complements the european commitment to the environment. this protocol is directly linked to the convention on biological diversity (cbd) and strengthens the mechanisms for preventing biotechnological risks.
in writing. i support the approval of the conclusion of this additional protocol because it sets out a clear ambition: to see common principles of liability and reparation for damage caused by living modified organisms. this is a health issue, so we need a global agreement. europe showed its commitment as early as 2004 with the environmental liability directive. i welcome the fact that we are moving towards a common system.
in writing. this own-initiative report is more of a statement or a reminder than specific legislative provisions. i voted in favour of it because it recalls the important efforts made by many member states in response to the sovereign debt crisis. the text stresses the need to continue the consolidation of public accounts by focusing on rationalising public expenditure rather than resorting to tax increases that are detrimental to economic recovery.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on public finances in the economic and monetary union. i believe that long-term strategies for fiscal consolidation are needed and that there is still a lot of work to be done. i note that the report gives priority to reducing government spending over fiscal measures. i also support the call for structural reforms and the introduction of growth-oriented policies.
in writing. we are aware of the challenges of public debt and deficit. they must be better controlled, because the health of our economies and the confidence of our citizens are at stake. that is why i support this text, which sets out our ambitions for sound public finances. as he says, i think that this will involve, among other things, a relaxation of the labour market, in order to adapt it to economic developments, for renewed growth. labour taxation, training programmes and the reduction of youth unemployment are all crucial to the recovery of growth in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for the strengthening of the union's economic and monetary integration through better management of the public finances of the member states. the latter must implement structural reforms to reduce public spending, while implementing growth-enhancing programmes to help the continent out of its economic slump. the recent progress has helped to calm the market frenzy, but we must maintain the course and move forward to ensure that the euro area is stable for a long time and that the periods of calm we are experiencing are not just periods of calm before a new storm.
in writing. this report notes the ineffectiveness of the austerity measures implemented throughout europe, with precise figures to back it up. but he doesn't get any consequences. from beginning to end, the text is nothing but speculation about the future, to justify the catastrophic consequences of austerity policy. the harmful role played by markets is never questioned. he is an advocate of the breaking of the labour law and the raising of the retirement age. it even claims to decide which ministries or which levels of government in a member state are useful or not! there are, however, some valid recommendations in this text. it calls for the fight against fraud and evasion, a higher taxation of capital and proposes to reduce unnecessary military expenditure, in particular, in my view, that of nato integration and the cost of us missile defence in europe. not enough to convince me to abstain. i vote against it.
in writing. this report has allowed for the adoption of new rules on when and how agencies rate the debts of governments and the financial health of private firms. i voted in favour of this because it allows agencies to issue unsolicited sovereign ratings only on fixed dates and allows private investors to sue them for negligence. in addition, the agencies' holdings in rated entities will be capped to reduce conflicts of interest.
in writing. the role of credit rating agencies in the economy has been gradually strengthened considerably. freedom of opinion is something which is acquired in our societies, but it must of course be accompanied by legal rules to prevent slippages which in this case can have extremely serious consequences for economic stability. it was urgent that the subject should be put on the agenda of the european parliament. the report focuses on preventing conflicts of interest and clarifying the legal framework for the agencies' activities. i regret that the creation of an independent european agency is only being discussed on the sidelines and at a deadline of 2016, which seems to me to be at least a long way off, but i have nevertheless voted in favour of this report, which is moving in the right direction.
in writing. accused of failing to foresee the financial crisis of 2007, and then of fuelling the sovereign debt crisis, rating agencies will now have to comply with the new eu rules. these new rules, which i voted for on wednesday, are designed to make them more accountable. how? by allowing them to issue unsolicited sovereign debt ratings only on fixed dates and by limiting conflicts of interest between sovereign debt ratings and financial institutions.
in writing. everyone remembers the controversy over rating agencies and the french triple a and the "power" of the 3 leading rating agencies in this market. these agencies have thought themselves free to make a difference in the financial situation of the states through their ratings, and they have thought themselves unassailable. the reply has finally come, not from the member states, but from europe. after proposing the creation of a european rating agency to compete with the us agencies, parliament adopted stricter rules on the rating of government debt or credit. similarly, to avoid any speculation about a state's poor performance, the ratings will be made on request to limit conflicts. and the publication of ratings will have to be after the closure of established markets in the eu and at least one hour before they reopen. finally, credit rating agencies can be sued if any of these rules are not respected. these measures taken at european level should help us to avoid financial crises of the magnitude of those we have just experienced.
in writing. with this vote, we are laying a sound basis for the rating, and especially the rating of government debt. this text contains many of the innovations for which i spoke. but i am particularly sensitive to the inclusion of the notion of environmental risk in credit ratings: despite the crisis, we are not forgetting our commitments to the protection of our environment. finance must no longer be disconnected from reality, and this measure will be a particularly powerful symbol of this ambition.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to regulate the infallibility dogma of the current credit rating agencies by introducing clearer and fairer ratings, and which also supports the idea of creating a european rating agency. while the rating agencies are doing their bit in the financial markets, the european union must propose regulatory rules that increase the civil liability of these agencies, in order to make them liable in the event of badly designed ratings or ratings that have harmed investors or member states. the text will require agencies to explain the main factors on which their ratings are based and to refrain from commenting on the political life of sovereign states. citizens, not rating agencies, decide what policies or reforms to implement.
in writing. the rating agencies do not simply give opinions, as is amply demonstrated by the statements published by standard and poor's and moody's after the us budget agreement: they judge policies and want to dictate their conduct to governments and parliaments, under threat of sanctions. your regulation, however much better it may be than inaction, does not fundamentally change this fact. as long as the entire financing system of the states and many leading companies is based on disintermediation and markets, a risk assessment will remain indispensable to "inform" the choice of investors. and this is all the more so since your attempts to regulate financial activity more effectively have the effect of encouraging banks to withdraw from the market. they keep formalizing the ratings, just trying to limit their automatic impact. including this text. for a very long time, this assessment will therefore depend on three agencies whose credibility has been tarnished, among other things, by the enron affair and the current crisis. i do not believe in the creation of a european public agency, subject to conflicts of interest with the commission and/or the states, or in the proliferation of small private agencies which will suffer from a lack of reputation, experience and space. i believe in a radical change of system.
in writing. i supported the outcome of long negotiations which will put an end to the conflicts of interest and the irresponsibility of the rating agencies, which have plunged many european states into a socially unsustainable debt crisis. the new rules i am supporting today will allow injured parties to claim damages for ratings which have been shown to be ill-conceived and have harmed their interests. in addition, the rating of public debts will be controlled to avoid any manipulation. finally, i welcome the adoption of a roadmap for the creation of a european public credit rating agency for sovereign debt, which is in line with president hollande's commitment to create such an instrument.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council was to amend regulation no 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies in order to reduce excessive reliance on them, so that the ratings they issue are considered to be mere pieces of information, but do not have automatic consequences on the activity of economic or financial actors, as may have been the case during the crisis, with the serious consequences we are experiencing. the new regulation, which i voted in favour of, includes the requirement for credit rating agencies to communicate their rating outlooks in advance, the obligation for certain financial institutions to set up an internal rating system and the reduction of the potential for conflicts of interest.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of new measures to regulate credit rating agencies. these stricter rules are designed to protect governments and citizens against speculative attacks by the markets when the agencies downgrade ratings. these rules therefore serve four main objectives: to reduce the reliance on rating agencies, to improve the transparency and regularity of ratings, to eliminate any conflict of interest and to hold agencies accountable by offering damages procedures for investors and stock issuers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which imposes new rules on the agencies which record the debts of governments and whose influence has become very important on economic markets, economic policies and companies. in order to frame their operating procedures and improve transparency, agencies will need to explain and document their rating and should not advocate policy changes. in addition, the internal organisation of the agencies should comply with new rules on conflicts of interest. a shareholder may not hold more than 10% of the voting rights in an agency that publishes ratings on an entity in which it has invested.
in writing. this report proposes to restrict somewhat the very broad prerogatives which the union has, until recently, offered to credit rating agencies. it advocated combating conflicts of interest linked to these agencies and rejected the union's reference to the ratings of these agencies in its legislation. it provides for sanctions if a rating agency makes statements about the policies of states. he even asks for a look at the methods used by these agencies. unfortunately, the request only applies to new methods or changes to old ones. it is a godly desire! it is also regrettable that the rating agencies' licence to carry out self-assessment is not withdrawn. i also regret, and especially regret, that these agencies are not prohibited from rating sovereign debts and that the european debt authority proposed by the committee on economic and financial affairs is not responsible for organising public debt audits. i abstain to emphasize the few advances planned.
in writing. i supported the proposal to regulate the activity of rating agencies in their assessment of sovereign debt. the lack of any control is part of the reason for the crisis we are experiencing. to avoid abuses or excessive reliance on banks by agencies, their assessment methods should be monitored. it is also vital that the union has its own public rating instrument. all rights lead to duties. i therefore felt it necessary to strengthen the obligations of the agencies. they have to follow some simple rules, like not rating any government they have as a client. they must also undertake to provide all information necessary for the evaluation of the ratings they issue. the agencies are an economic thermometer, not elected decision makers. they also do not have to dictate the european political agenda: the european parliament has thus ensured that agencies can no longer, as has already happened in the past, announce a downgrade on the eve of a european council, or important political decisions. if they pass judgments on government economic policies, temporary or permanent bans or fines will be issued.
in writing. adopted by the european parliament, this report is directly linked to the report on credit rating agencies. i voted in favour of this text, which proposes to amend several directives concerning undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and alternative investment fund managers in order to strengthen their control at european level.
in writing. it is time to put an end to the blind and automatic reliance on external ratings. investment firms are encouraged to make their own independent decisions, without automatically relying on the ratings of the major agencies. i hope that this text will succeed in cleaning up the rating market.
in writing. this proposal for a directive, which i supported by voting in favour of, amends two previous directives concerning certain undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and alternative investment fund managers (aifs). it extends the regulation on credit rating agencies to the specific case of these bodies, again in the sense of reducing the reliance on ratings. ucits and aifs will, inter alia, be required to assess the advice of credit rating agencies and to develop their own credit ratings. they will also no longer be able to use agency ratings as indicators of liquidity risk, price volatility or market quality and will be prohibited from incorporating credit ratings alone into their monitoring systems.
in writing. the report proposes to free investment fund managers, including hedge funds, from the grip of rating agencies. but the reduction in the power of the rating agencies that is advocated here gives greater freedom to hedge funds. on the pretext that the gatekeeper (the rating agencies) is bad, risk assessment should be left to the more speculative investors themselves. that is dangerous logic. i only abstain in support of the restriction of the powers of the rating agencies.
in writing. with this report, certain restrictions on fishing methods and zones allowed in european waters have been lifted. i supported this text because it allows small-scale artisanal fishermen to fish for baltic cod in coastal areas during the summer months during the closure season. this text thus allows for the taking into account of several specific features of artisanal fishing, while respecting the requirements linked to the sustainable exploitation of this resource.
in writing. i voted in favour of the walesa report which will now allow small-scale fishermen to fish for cod in the baltic sea during the summer. supported by studies showing that stocks in the region are sufficient, parliament's response is above all sustainable and inclusive. it is now up to the member states to decide.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which amends the multiannual baltic cod management plan as it aims to make it more effective in the sustainable management of cod stocks. it defines the precise fishing techniques and areas for this fishery and the commission's prior consultation with the baltic sea advisory council.
in writing. i voted in favour of the walesa report. i think it is important to amend the multiannual baltic cod management plan in order to manage stocks more efficiently and sustainably.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to better combine environmental interests with the requirements of minimum economic viability, in order to allow small-scale fishermen to carry out their activity with fewer restrictions. the latter will now be able to fish for baltic cod in certain coastal areas during the summer months, always within the limits of the fishing zones authorized in european waters. without prejudice to the reproduction of the species, which takes place in much deeper waters, this resolution will respond much more precisely and consistently to the real needs of the fishing industry.
in writing. the recent and measured increase in cod stocks, brought about by the constant effort of fishermen, should not be allowed to obscure the fact that abundance levels have been divided by six over the last 50 years. this report provides for potentially painful measures to be taken in consultation with fishermen's representatives, on the basis of indisputable scientific data. it lays the foundations for a better ecological status of the resource. i am voting in favour, calling for the efforts of the fishermen to be compensated by appropriate technical and financial measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which deals with the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures to protect juveniles of marine organisms. it is important to define the rules to be respected, the areas, the fishing techniques and the gear that can be used throughout the european union in order to guarantee selective and sustainable fishing. this text should be applied provisionally until the adoption of the new fisheries policy and the corresponding new technical measures.
in writing. i thought it was essential to join my colleagues in the european parliament in adopting this resolution postponing the vote on the pat the cope gallagher report on the conservation of fishery resources, so that the signal sent by this vote to the european council is unequivocal. the member states are blocking any progress in discussions on multiannual fisheries management plans, in particular by opposing the european parliament's co-decision power on certain key elements of the matter, while the legitimacy and competence of our institution on this subject are no longer to be demonstrated.
in writing. the common fisheries policy lays down rules for the conservation of fishery resources and the maintenance of fishing activities. not all are equally effective. nevertheless, the positive results obtained after the adoption of local technical measures based on scientific advice justify their renewal and adjustment. that is what this report proposes. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this purely technical text which amends the procedure for electing the presidents, vice-presidents and quaestors of the european parliament.
in writing. i abstained on this vote because the proposed text does not contain a measure on parity.
in writing. we adopted a report from the work of the committee on constitutional affairs (afco), of which i am vice-chair, on the amendment of rule 15 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, concerning the order of precedence of vice-chairmen elected by acclamation. the aim is to harmonise the rules and practice of parliament.
mr president, it is obvious to all that young people are the future, and yet too many of our children no longer have confidence in that future, because they are faced, in particular, with the complexity of the world of work, while economic crises are increasingly hitting the most vulnerable. almost 24% of young people, or 5.7 million, are now unemployed in the european union. these figures are staggering, yet these young people are making a real effort to be responsible and to be independent. the resolution is therefore entirely legitimate, because it aims to offer young people who have been unemployed for more than four months the opportunity of being offered a job, training or apprenticeship. it is essential to consider european strategies in this area. i therefore welcome the work done by the rapporteur and i shall vote in favour of this report. there is a "but" though. it seems to me that he does not present the whole problem. unemployment and precariousness are only partly linked to problems of matching supply and demand in terms of the supply of jobs, and a better policy of youth guidance and a more vocational training offer will only partly solve the problems posed. the european union must therefore respond to the problem of youth employment in two ways. on the one hand, clear rules should be laid down to regulate the use of precarious contracts and to prevent them from replacing stable jobs where there is a real need for labour. on the other hand, there is an urgent need to act in favour of our industries and the recovery of growth, which alone will make it possible to combat unemployment in general and youth unemployment in particular in the long term.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the 'european youth guarantee'. the aim of this scheme is to enable young people under 25 who have been unemployed for more than four months to be offered a job, training or apprenticeship. the text asks eu employment ministers to adopt a council recommendation by february 2013 to implement the system in all eu member states.
in writing. already introduced in several member states, the youth guarantee is based on a simple idea: 'every young person should be offered a good quality job, further training, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of leaving school or losing their job'. while we welcome the commission's communication, we want to know more, hence the questions to the commissioner: what means, including financial means, will the eu mobilise to support the introduction of this guarantee in all member states? such a tool has a significant budgetary cost. how does the commission intend to encourage member states to allocate part of their european social fund allocation to developing the youth guarantee? beyond the budgetary issue, it appears that the key to success is close cooperation between the different levels of governance, the social partners, the employment services and the training institutes. we ask the commission to define its strategy for stimulating this cooperation. such a tool can become a pillar of european solidarity and a sign of hope for a whole generation now sacrificed. we therefore urgently need concrete and ambitious progress on this issue.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a youth guarantee to help young people who are unemployed. the aim is to enable these young people to receive training, an apprenticeship or a job within four months of losing their job or leaving school. this youth guarantee will have to be partly financed by the esf.
in writing. it is important to support this initiative given the employment situation, especially for those under 30, we cannot afford to make beautiful promises and statements. the youth guarantee is not a guarantee of employment, but it should give young people a boost, a start in life, so that they can then gain work experience and enter the working world. all the member states are faced with this situation of unemployment among their young people, some more than others, so it is yet another example of europe as we conceive it, a 'europe of solidarity', and that is why this instrument deserves that we provide it with all the necessary means and that we monitor its proper application. it is also an additional instrument to encourage more europe and more social governance.
in writing. by voting in favour of this resolution, i support the creation of a youth guarantee facility, which will enable young people, the first to be affected by the crisis, to be offered quality education and employment opportunities, appropriate to their needs. what we are asking for is that this mechanism should be directed to those who need it most. and this includes not only those under 25 but also young people in the labour force who still have too many difficulties entering or remaining in the labour market. i therefore voted in favour of this text and i hope that the ministers of the member states will hear our appeal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because, in this time of crisis, young people are the most affected. their unemployment rate is 25%, and in some countries it is as high as one third: a whole generation is excluded from the labour market, with tragic effects on their career development and on our economy. education is no longer a guarantee of employment, and young graduates often go on to work in apprenticeships with little or no pay, with no prospects. the cost to the european union of inaction on this issue is estimated at around €53 billion, or 1.2% of our gdp. we must therefore implement youth guarantee mechanisms. the member states and the european union must cooperate to establish and finance such a mechanism as soon as possible. all actors (educational and training establishments, enterprises, authorities) must be involved in helping young people to enter the labour market as soon as possible.
in writing. i welcome the proposal to create a youth guarantee to combat youth unemployment, a scourge affecting more than 5.5 million young people in the union, not to mention the approximately 1.5 million young people affected by precarious employment. this was a longstanding demand on the part of parliament, and in particular the s&d group, which had campaigned for such an initiative. now we need funding to match the ambitions. at a time when talk of budget cuts is all the rage, on the eve of the conclusion of the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework, firm guarantees must be provided to finance this indispensable policy to combat youth unemployment. it is also a matter of promoting the model of a europe which protects its citizens, and in particular the most vulnerable, such as young people, who are particularly exposed to precarious employment. this is the face of a europe that is not just a machine for deregulation, which we want to show.
in writing. the youth guarantee, which is designed to recommend that member states provide employment, training and traineeship for every young person under 25 after a period of four months of unemployment, seems to me to be a major communication operation designed to reconcile young people with the european union. to pretend that the european union is concerned about youth unemployment, when all the policies decided in this house have contributed and still contribute to putting young people out of work, seems to me to be the last stage of hypocrisy. only the abandonment of the economic, financial and monetary policy of the european union, which has led our continent to disaster, will allow our economies to recover and, consequently, reduce youth unemployment. the rest of it will be just plaster on a wooden leg. that is why i abstained on this motion for a resolution by mrs berès.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 'youth guarantee' resolution which would allow young eu citizens and legal residents to be offered a job, continuing training or a good quality apprenticeship within four months of leaving school or losing their job. while the youth unemployment rate has jumped to 23.4%, meaning that 5,680,000 young people are unemployed, partly due to a mismatch between skills supply and demand in the labour market, this system would give an additional chance for young people to enter the labour market and thus avoid the increased risks of future unemployment and social exclusion. the cost of inaction on the problem of young people not in employment, education or training is estimated at around €53 billion, or 1.2% of gdp.
in writing. the berès report makes two relevant proposals concerning the 'youth guarantee' project. it proposes a personalised assessment of the needs of each young person, leading to appropriate measures. it also proposes to define a 'quality framework' and in particular a decent salary for each young person. i support it for these two reasons. i regret, however, that he merely comments on it. these proposals must be demands or at least 'strong recommendations', since this is a recommendation which parliament intends to make here. i also object to the fact that there is not a word in the text to denounce the breach of labour law which the commission is calling on the member states to undertake. i abstain in order to encourage the two key proposals which this report does not defend well.
in writing. according to the european commission, youth unemployment reached 23.7% in the eu in 2012. although the situation varies from one member state to another, the rate is nowhere below 15% - it is 27% in france, over 30% in portugal and over 50% in spain. it is therefore absolutely urgent to find effective solutions to the problem of youth employment. in this connection, the establishment of a 'youth guarantee' system seems particularly relevant. it aims to enable all young eu citizens up to the age of 25 and young graduates under 30 to be offered a job, training or apprenticeship within four months of losing their job or leaving school. in voting for this resolution i support the commission's proposal for a council recommendation to introduce this system in all member states. the text stresses that the fund should be eligible for eu funding, in particular from the european social fund, and calls on the commission to support member states with budgetary constraints in setting up such an instrument.
in writing. i defended the resolution of my comrade p.bérès in favour of a youth guarantee project. as a result of the crisis, more than 23% of young europeans are unemployed. worse, 7.5 million of them are under 25 years old and unable to work or train. youth is the future. it must be at the heart of all our projects. it is urgent to define a strategy accompanied by concrete measures, such as guaranteeing that young people under 25 or recent graduates under 30 are offered a job or training within 4 months of entering the labour market. that is why the council and the commission must agree and launch an ambitious plan for young people. the european social fund must be increased accordingly to finance this guarantee, without reducing the funds for other programmes. i believe that close cooperation between the commission, the member states and the social partners is necessary to ensure that the needs of young people are assessed precisely and specifically. that is the point of this proposal. that is why i support it with determination and conviction.
in writing. this text makes recommendations on how cohesion policy could better support the implementation of the eu's and its regions' new energy priorities. in the forthcoming multiannual financial framework, the european commission has for the first time allocated substantial resources to the energy sector under the european regional development fund. i voted in favour of this text allowing 'at least 50% of the funds to be used for investments in the low carbon economy'.
in writing. i voted for the kolarska-bobinska report. it seems important to me to make clear recommendations on how cohesion policy can support the implementation of the eu's new energy priorities. i am convinced that european energy projects will help to create more jobs. finally, i welcome the emphasis on the need to take account of the specific needs of the various regions of europe.
in writing. cohesion funds can be an important lever in the realisation of the single energy market. cooperation between our territories must also be possible in this area, to enable the development of crossborder energy infrastructure and networks, to finance energy efficiency and renewable energy. i particularly welcome the efficiency approach adopted in this report: where energy policy and cohesion policy complement and even reinforce each other, we must know how to make use of these synergies for the success of the common market, our energy security and the well-being of europeans. if the cohesion fund is used to finance energy projects, we must ensure that they contribute to the cohesion objectives we have set ourselves. the transition to a low-carbon economy is an important objective, which must allow the development of our regions, which have different characteristics and therefore different needs.
in writing. the aim of this report is to highlight the role that cohesion policy can play in the new european energy strategy (energy 2020 and the roadmap to 2050). unfortunately, the rapporteur's initial intention was mainly to represent the special interests of her country of origin. the rapporteur therefore wished cohesion policy to support not only renewable energy but also other sources such as shale gas. the report also calls for funding for energy efficiency projects at the expense of renewable energy projects. this is like "stripping paul to dress peter". for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which, while recalling that the eu's cohesion programme should not replace energy policy, makes sensible recommendations to support the new energy priorities of the eu and its regions through cohesion policy. the european commission has allocated significant financial resources to the energy sector under the european regional development fund, 50% of which will be used to invest in the low-carbon economy. this resolution highlights the potential of energy projects to promote regional development and create many jobs, particularly through investments in decentralised energy sources and the expansion of energy infrastructure. energy projects supported under the european regional development fund will, however, first have to respect the objectives of cohesion policy, namely to contribute to regional development and to reduce differences between regions.
in writing. i voted against the report on the role of eu cohesion policy in implementing the new european energy policy. this report, which was almost rejected in committee, provides for liberalisation of the energy sector, which means that the member states are relieved of their responsibility for implementing a sustainable and sound energy policy.
in writing. i exceptionally chose to abstain in the vote on this text. the introduction of euro bonds should be a medium-term objective in order to strengthen the budgetary, political and economic integration of the european union. nevertheless, it is essential that european countries first regain control of their public spending. this is not yet the case for all, for example in france. by abstaining, i chose not to block this progress but to emphasise the extreme caution i feel is necessary before putting these stability obligations in place.
in writing. the high and rising levels of public debt are a real sword of damocles for europe. in the medium term, we are talking about the survival of the euro. but to strengthen the euro and stabilise our currency in the long term, the idea of euro bonds, stability bonds, are structural tools. the pooling of debts would be as important a leap forward as the creation of the euro was. it is, of course, accompanied by a clearly defined framework of collective rules. in this sense, my colleague sylvie goulard's report sets out a precise and welcome road map to overcome the various reservations. the report details all the options on the table to move forward. so i naturally voted in favour of this one.
in writing. i voted against the own-initiative report by sylvie goulard. europe will not be able to introduce eurobonds until the member states have completely cleaned up their public finances and provided long-term guarantees. the creation of such a system would lead to a mutualisation of european sovereign debts and thus to a common borrowing and repayment. the risk is that the best students will borrow at higher rates than they do now.
in writing. eurobonds are an opportunity to help us get our economies back on track, and they deserve consideration. in any case, they require a much higher level of economic and fiscal integration than we have today and can therefore only be a solution in the medium or long term. it is good to present a roadmap, which can serve as a basis for further reflection. however, i fear that this text sends the wrong signal. we all know that what is important is to stabilize our economies first. we must not be hasty. we have taken good measures to stabilise and strengthen our economies and our finances, for example with the european semester or the treaty on stability, coordination and governance. but we are still waiting for them to take full effect. we cannot risk destabilizing the situation. for these reasons i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. parliament adopted a resolution urging member states and the european commission to explore all possibilities for sovereign debt pooling and to present them in reports, which could be accompanied by a roadmap for the implementation of the proposals in this area. i am aware of the benefits of debt pooling as a way out of the economic crisis, but i have nevertheless voted against this resolution because there are still concerns. it seems to me that it is still risky to start a process of debt pooling without the european union simultaneously gaining greater control over the expenditure of the member states. such a solution would encourage irresponsible or opportunistic behaviour by the least rigorous states in controlling public expenditure, since the latter would automatically be rescued by others in case of difficulties. the resolution also suggests that the joint issuance of national debt securities or the creation of european debt securities could be contrary to the treaty, which should therefore be revised.
in writing. the report proposes the creation of 'stability bonds' (eurobonds). it considers that the submission to the financial markets and the full repayment of sovereign debts is an insurmountable horizon for the member states of the european union. this leads him to propose partial, temporary or progressive debt-sharing mechanisms in which only those states which implement drastic austerity plans could participate. in this context, any budgetary 'deviation' would be sanctioned once again. when the postulate is arbitrary, the proposed solutions can only be so. the submission to the markets can and must be broken. the european governments have decisive instruments at their disposal: the capacity for direct lending to the states by the ecb, which must be made possible, and their sovereign right to organise a debt audit and not to pay back undue interest. i am voting against this text and denouncing the inability of the parliamentary majority to break out of its ideological blindness and propose valid solutions.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the last time we discussed syria was on 12 december at 10 p.m. with mrs malmström. we talked about some catastrophic and macabre scenarios which, unfortunately, a month later, have been perfectly realized. madam minister, i really believe that we should not stay the course. to keep on the course is to be sure of some dire predictions that will come true in the months ahead. on the contrary, we must change course. i say this also for humanitarian aid, which is rightly said to be important, since it represents 53% of international aid. but first of all, this humanitarian aid is very poorly distributed, at least as far as european bilateral aid is concerned, since britain alone provides almost half of european bilateral aid. but we have a problem with the delivery, because this humanitarian aid ultimately passes through a syrian red crescent that remains under the regime's authority. i wonder how a regime which systematically destroys and bombs, for example, bakeries to create famine can organise, in an equitable and nonpolitical way, the humanitarian aid we deliver. we are also hearing very strong complaints from many communities and groups of people who are not receiving our humanitarian aid. i therefore expect that in the next two days, when a meeting will be held on this subject, the european union will be able to really think about effective ways of providing humanitarian aid. and then, with refugees, i'm sorry, but we're back to the problems we reported on december 12, which is that to come today, as a syrian to europe, you have to not only go through smuggling networks but, worse, buy fake passports, because it's impossible, if you have a syrian passport, to come legally, to seek protection, possibly temporary, in europe. as human rights watch has rightly said, the lottery is the dominant force for protection. finally, only two families - and they must be very rich - are currently in detention in poland. they had to buy fake documents, fake passports in turkey, and pay 46,000 euros to get into our territory. so when are we gonna start a temporary foster plan? we have a directive - the temporary protection directive - and i think it is urgent to do so. secondly, i do not think we should continue to follow the course of the arms embargo either, because it produces the deleterious effect we fear, namely that the opposition is getting arms from the gulf countries and, therefore, the risks of islamisation which some people put forward in order to deny access to arms produce exactly the opposite effect. it's totally paradoxical! i therefore expect the council on 31 january to look into this matter and take a decision because we are really being totally counterproductive. finally, i think we should be very attentive to what is happening in turkey today, in the negotiations with the pkk. this process is fragile. the european union must put all its strength into this process if it is to succeed. it can have a regional domino effect, absolutely decisive in the region. i also expect the european union to take action in this area.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i should like to thank mr salafranca sánchez-neyra for his speech and allow me also to congratulate in his absence the rapporteur, mr mauro, and the european parliament for this excellent and comprehensive report on the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement, which highlights the main issues and challenges in the eu’s relations with iraq. while focusing on the agreement, the report also looks into the wider context of the best ways to promote eu interests and the european values in iraq. the eu has a long-standing commitment to support iraq in its reconstruction and transition to democracy, with the objective of helping to build a stable, prosperous and democratic iraq, reintegrated in regional and global structures. the eu has been a major donor to iraq, providing support in many areas, such as basic services, assistance to refugees and displaced persons, as well as the strengthening of the political system, the rule of law and the protection of human rights, for example, through the csdp rule-of-law eujust lex mission. eu overall support to iraq since 2003 has amounted to over eur 1 billion, and this, of course, without counting the bilateral contributions of member states. with the partnership and cooperation agreement, we have opened a new chapter in our bilateral relationship. this is the first such agreement to frame the relations between the eu and iraq – providing a clear legal basis and a comprehensive institutional structure. the vice-president/high representative was very pleased to sign in may last year, with iraqi foreign minister zebari, this historic agreement which is good for iraq, good for the eu, and good for our long-term relationship. we are now looking forward to working with iraq on its implementation. that is what the agreement is about: the start of a new partnership, sealing our common wish to work together on a whole range of issues where we both have a lot to gain. but, it also provides a platform to talk about difficult issues, including the promotion of security, the cooperation in countering terrorism and arms proliferation and the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement also provides for cooperation in support of iraq’s accession to the international criminal court. we are committed to boosting trade and investment between the eu and iraq. ‘economics meets politics’ is a formula which is dear to the vice-president/high representative: increased trade and investment will be crucial to back the work on the political front to support iraq’s transformation into a stable and prosperous democratic nation. the agreement will support iraq’s reform and development efforts and facilitate its integration into the wider international economy. it should also be a stepping stone to iraq’s wto accession, supporting its adaptation to wto rules and practice. the partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq is a non-preferential agreement based on most-favoured-nation principles. it offers very substantial market access to the eu and some preferential elements in public procurement, services and investments. the agreement also provides ample opportunities for enhanced cooperation on sectoral policies across the board, from energy and environment to education and innovation. let me stress the example of energy, where the eu can help iraq to harness its enormous energy potential, while iraq can contribute to the diversification of the eu’s energy supply and to its energy security as it is a potential source country for the southern corridor. there was a commitment with minister hoshyar zebari during the signature event in may for the rapid implementation of the main parts of the agreement that are provisionally applicable pending ratification. the eeas is discussing with iraqi counterparts the way forward so that progress is made as soon as possible. in this respect, i would also like to emphasise the important role of the european parliament. the parliamentary cooperation committee should be an important forum for the european and iraqi parliaments, providing excellent opportunities to exchange on democratic practice and provide further support to iraq’s transition. this partnership is not of course without challenges. iraq is a young democracy, and the road ahead will not always be smooth. iraq has made considerable progress in its transition towards democracy, but continues to face serious political, security, and socio-economic challenges. the level of violence in iraq is still unacceptably high and recently tensions between the major political forces (shia, sunni and kurdish) are on the rise. this carries a risk of re-igniting sectarian tensions in iraq, and it threatens the fragile balance that the ‘national partnership government’ is based on. it also slows down the necessary reforms as well as socio-economic progress. the human rights situation continues to be of serious concern, with the increased use of the death penalty – an unsatisfactory situation for women and vulnerable groups, including minorities. camp ashraf remains an important and sensitive issue. there has been some progress, but there are still a number of challenges in the critical process facilitated by the united nations with our full support. the eu is also committed to supporting the un process with a contribution of eur 12 million to support the operations of the un monitors and the unhcr refugee status determination process. the vice-president/high representative and the member states all follow the recent developments in iraq with great concern. it is in everybody’s interest to see a stable, democratic and prosperous iraq, where the political system is underpinned by a strengthened rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the partnership and cooperation agreement therefore arrives at a very timely moment, since it creates a platform and increases the eu leverage to address these concerns with iraqi counterparts. we must see iraq’s transition also in the regional context – in particular with respect to the dramatic and violent developments unfolding across the border in syria, which we have just discussed, but also iran’s increasing influence. this adds to the difficulty of iraq’s democratic endeavours – but makes its success even more important. let me conclude by stressing that this agreement is above all, a symbol of the eu’s wish to be a constructive partner for iraq in its democratic endeavours. it brings together the eu and its member states and it is the main instrument to show the eu’s unified determination to build a long-term partnership with a stable and democratic iraq, not just for today or tomorrow, but for many years to come.
opinion of the committee on international trade and development - mr president, commissioner, madam minister, the first thing i would like to do is to stress the importance of this agreement, because it is the first one that the european union is going to sign with iraq. this agreement will accompany the democratic transition of that country, its reconstruction and political normalisation within the international community. as rapporteur for the committee on international trade, i would like to highlight the trade provisions it contains and the incorporation of basic world trade organisation rules, but above all i think it is important to highlight the technical and logistical assistance which the commission, which is the european union, can provide to the country at this time of transition. and also, to emphasize that this agreement will facilitate the european union's access to the public procurement and services markets and will thus also balance relations between the european union and iraq. in short, it is about what trade represents as an essential resource for increasing stability and prosperity in iraq, and the agreement we are voting on tomorrow represents a great opportunity for iraq and for the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to welcome the work of my colleague, mario mauro, on this matter and the presentation made by mr salafranca. like him, i believe that this partnership and cooperation agreement is a decisive step in relations between the european union and iraq. it will enable the union to support the democratic process in iraq more effectively. its 'trade and significant investment' component lays the foundations for a sustainable and mutually beneficial economic relationship within the wto framework, as iraq requested in 2004. above all, it encourages the country to make new efforts and to undertake new reforms, because, despite all the obstacles, iraq is well on the way to democracy. for example, local elections are being held this year and parliamentary elections next year. but i still have a few concerns. firstly, the daily problems of iraqis: physical insecurity - 23 people have been killed and more than 200 injured in an attack this morning - but also food insecurity. i would remind you of the social crisis triggered by the iraqi government's decision to abolish ration cards, widespread corruption, unemployment and poverty. i would like to remind you that iraq has accumulated in 2012 more than 80 billion dollars of oil revenues while 88 percent of the iraqi population lives below the poverty line. this situation cannot continue. the other urgent matter for the iraqi authorities is the human rights situation. the number of arbitrary detentions is increasing. the prisoner status is still unfinished. religious minorities, especially the christian minority, are increasingly isolated. and while the office of the high commissioner for human rights called last november for a moratorium on the death penalty, the number of executions has skyrocketed this year. the support of the european union, beyond its purely financial assistance, will have real added value. my hope is that this agreement will be a new commitment by both sides to a democratic and secure iraq.
mr president, the tragic fire at the tazreen fashion factory has caused a stir in bangladesh and has brought to light the deplorable working and safety conditions. bangladesh is the second largest clothing exporter in the world, behind china, due to low wages and abundant labour, especially child labour. the conditions of over-exploitation of the garment sector in bangladesh are notoriously extreme, but this does not prevent the major western ready-to-wear and distribution chains from supplying them. due to the involvement of these bangladeshi clothing multinationals, the fire on november 24 also caused a wave of outrage in the world. the whole of south asia, a major exporter of textiles, is affected. the over-exploiting employers and the corrupt asian governments are obviously to blame. but the laws of the global capitalist market are also directly involved. the transnational corporations are competing with the various countries in the region, driving down wages, working conditions and safety standards. the bangladeshi government must immediately impose safety regulations on factories. victims of such breaches of social or environmental legislation, victims of the non-compliance by multinationals, to the detriment of their immediate subsidiaries, with the principles of corporate social responsibility, should be able to bring cases before the courts of the country where the breach has occurred. the establishment of international judicial procedures should make it possible, where appropriate, to sanction companies that break the law. and so to respond to european companies, we must know that these same multinationals are killing european small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to express my condolences to the families of the victims, as other members have done. in the six years between the spectrum factory accident in 2005 and the tazreen fashions factory accident last november, more than 600 people died in textile factory fires in bangladesh. these terrible figures show that conditions are deteriorating in the country's 5,000 textile factories. the bangladesh authorities must work with engineers, architects and emergency services to improve safety. and they must punish factory managers who are negligent. we do not deny that the government and some companies have become aware of the problem and are trying to provide solutions. the european union can and must help them to do so! but i would now like to speak, commissioner, about the behaviour of certain multinationals, which other colleagues have already mentioned, without being populist - i am speaking to my colleague mr caspary - and i quote them: wal-mart, c&a, gap. all are reluctant to participate in agreements on the safety of their staff. yet, they are responsible! that's a position i take on a regular basis. because of their weight in international trade, european companies play a fundamental role in promoting and disseminating social and labour standards worldwide. we cannot simply condemn. we must also, and above all, promote the solutions that exist and that work.
member of the commission. - mr president, good evening to each and every one of you. as you have understood, i am now going to reply to you, on behalf of catherine ashton and kristalina georgieva, who spoke earlier, after listening very carefully to each other, and i would like to confirm the great emotion that we as european commissioners also felt at this tragedy, this fire that struck this textile factory in shulia, near dhaka, bangladesh, last november, a tragedy that caused at least 112 victims, many of them young women, and which raises, as you have rightly done, through interpellations, ladies and gentlemen of the socialist group, the question of standards in the textile and clothing industry in south asia. it is a matter of concern to you; it is a matter of concern to us. of course, the conclusions of various investigations vary, but there is no denying that the most basic safety rules were regularly violated at this plant. phil bennion, earlier, and tokia saïfi, did well to recall this shared responsibility, which is of course that of the large multinational groups - i will come back to that - but also, as phil bennion said, the responsibility of the directors, of those who are, on the ground, responsible for a factory that violated social norms and basic safety standards. i would like to confirm, ladies and gentlemen, what kristalina georgieva has already said to you, namely that the representatives of the european union in dhaka - and i thank mrs lambert for saying this - reacted very quickly. the current debate also underlines the growing recognition of the immediate interest for the european union of safety at work in the factories of our trading partners and we must seize the opportunity of this tragedy to bring about better progress, concrete improvements. as you know, on 25 june 2012 we adopted a strategic framework, an eu action plan for human rights and democracy, and within this framework the eu will continue to act to promote human rights in the external dimension of employment and social policy and to recommend the application of the un guiding principles on business and human rights. i admit, moreover, in echoing what several of you have said, bernd lange, phil bennion, daniel caspary just now, richard howitt, mrs striffler and mrs weiler, that there are other politicians who feel called to action by this tragedy, which does not only concern europe's trade relations with the rest of the world. so i myself feel challenged; i happen to be taking part in this debate in place of kristalina georgieva, but in my own portfolio, as commissioner for the internal market in charge of public procurement, but also in the external dimension of our relations with our partners in public procurement or corporate social responsibility, which you have all mentioned, this subject appeals to me. as you know, the commission is committed to promoting this new requirement of corporate social responsibility; we have drawn up a communication on this subject in 2011 and at the end of last year we proposed an action plan in the field of company law, corporate governance and social responsibility. all of this, as far as our trading companies are concerned, must lead, mrs weiler, to what i would describe, after others, as a fairer, more just and more humane form of trade. we will propose legislation on non-financial transparency during the first quarter of 2013. companies will be held accountable for their actions in the areas of social inclusion, social responsibility and the environment. in the same spirit, to show that this is not just speeches or wishes for the future, i would remind you that you are discussing a text i have presented to you at this very moment, on transparency country by country, the aim of which is that our 600 listed and unlisted companies working in the field of extraction of natural resources, exploiting these resources in many parts of the world, in africa in particular, or in asia, or in the field of forestry, are obliged to be accountable, so that we know who is paying what and to whom. this is a text which is currently being discussed in this house and in the council of ministers. as regards bangladesh, the promotion of workers' rights is one of the main objectives of our human rights strategy. the european union will continue to work with the government of bangladesh to intensify its initiatives in the retail, clothing and textile sector, as well as in other south asian countries with similar concerns. we will also continue to support human rights defenders, who are active in the field of social rights and who play a very important role. i would also like to confirm to you - and i say this in particular to thomas mann and bernd lange - that the commission will publish a report on the most tragic or unacceptable forms, the worst forms of labour and trade, which affect too many children in particular throughout the world. we will publish this report in the coming weeks. i think we all agree on the conclusions to be drawn from this tragedy and that is why i would also like to say that the right response cannot be simply the creation of a single instrument for the european union's external action. we need a combined, effective and intelligent use of many instruments: public and political diplomacy, economic diplomacy, political dialogue, development programmes - which are an important lever and which must be conditional on compliance with a number of rules or conditions - trade policy, and then what i have just mentioned in terms of social responsibility for our companies. we are working with our colleagues in different parts of the union, as well as with our counterparts in the member states, to ensure that our interventions are as coordinated and therefore as effective as possible. mr president, i would just like to make a few telegraphic replies to some of the important speeches that you have made. jean lambert and jutta steinruck were right to stress the importance of compensation which the families of the victims should receive. we hope, as mrs lambert has stressed, that the tripartite meeting which has just taken place between trade unions, employers' organizations and the public authorities will lead to compliance with existing social legislation on this point. alejandro cercas, daniel caspary, jutta steinruck, all mentioned the international labour organisation, with which we are obviously in partnership, to promote the rules on workers' health and safety at work. in bangladesh, the european union and the international labour organisation (ilo) have a project on vocational training. we will reflect on our contribution, following the communiqué of 15 january 2013 and this ilo-sponsored tripartite meeting. i would like to tell mr caspary that i was interested in his ideas, which i find important, interesting. i promise to pass them on to my colleagues, mrs ashton and mr de gucht. i think i can say on their behalf that they agree and will agree, mr caspary, to start thinking, with their teams and departments, and to propose effective, sustainable and rapid follow-up actions. the ilo has conventions which establish and specify standards for safety and health at the workplace. most of the major textile groups in developing countries including bangladesh have not yet ratified these conventions. i shall therefore pass on these ideas to my colleagues, but also to mr tajani and mr andor, whose departments are working, like mine, on certain aspects of the issues you have kindly mentioned. thank you. i could say that on behalf of mrs georgieva, who again apologizes for not being able to stay, for reasons connected with her work schedule in brussels, until the end of this debate, for which i thank you.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members who have participated in this debate. i think it has shown that we are all determined to ensure that we do everything possible to prevent a repeat of the tragic events of last november. i think commissioner barnier has covered a lot of the ground very well so i do not want to go over it again, because i know that there is a long evening ahead. a number of speakers have made very positive contributions and suggestions, and i have taken note of all of them. i think the one thing that is really clear, and a common thread, is that all members are looking for some action, though i do not think that anybody would suggest that the tragic events in dhaka should in any sense be used as a pretext for introducing protectionist-type measures. i genuinely do not believe that that is the spirit of the debate this evening. it is, rather that, through our international trading arrangements and particularly through bilateral trade agreements and organisations like the ilo, we should find ways in which to use our leverage to promote higher standards and better protection for workers, and i think those points have been well made by many speakers. it is important to point out, from the council’s perspective, that we are committed to using trade incentives as a means of encouraging beneficiary countries to respect the key international human and labour rights, environmental protection standards and governance principles – in particular, as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, through the eu gsp+ framework. this is an important tool for the eu, and one which has great potential to deal with a lot of challenges we have discussed. so, rather than repeating what has already been said, i just want to say that we have touched in our discussions today on a range of ways of promoting effective links between trade, labour and the environment. the eu clearly has a key role to play in this area and all of us — all the eu institutions — have to work closely with the ilo and the other multinational organisations, because this is the most effective way of ensuring adequate working conditions for all in every country and in every sector, and that should be our goal.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am again very grateful to the house for drawing attention to this very important issue and for organising this debate, in which i am pleased to be participating. corruption is a significant threat to the foundations of our democratic system. it undermines the rule of law on which all of our national systems, as well as the european union, are based. it saps public confidence in the institutions and organisations which are supposed to be at the service of every citizen. it also comes with an economic cost. it is estimated that a sum equivalent to 1% of eu gdp is lost every single year as a result of corruption. corruption thrives on a culture of secrecy and concealment, and we can only begin to tackle it if we are open and transparent. today’s debate is therefore particularly welcome. it is encouraging that corruption is acknowledged and discussed much more openly than it was a few decades ago. that goes not just for europe but also beyond. the eu has had considerable success in getting corruption on to the global agenda. we seek to use our influence through trade and other instruments at our disposal to encourage a more robust approach to corruption. clearly, much remains to be done, but we are starting to get some of our partners to take the issue seriously where once it was simply accepted as a part of normal life. within the eu there has been a strong political commitment at the highest political level to tackle corruption. in the stockholm programme, the multiannual strategic framework covering the area of freedom, security and justice for the period 2012 to 2014, the european council called for concrete measures to strengthen the eu’s anti-corruption policy. furthermore, in its 2010 internal security strategy the justice and home affairs council referred to corruption as one of the main challenges to internal security and called for further action at eu level. these statements reflect a strong political will to tackle corruption within the eu, and they are gradually being turned into concrete measures which constitute an effective and comprehensive eu anti-corruption strategy. the commission adopted an anti-corruption package in 2011. the package includes the decision to establish a new evaluation mechanism to assess anti-corruption efforts within the eu. it is a further step towards increased transparency and provides an incentive for member states to ratify and implement existing international anti-corruption instruments. this is important. there are still several key conventions in this area which have not yet been ratified by all eu member states. the evaluation mechanism announced by the commission in 2011 provides for reports every two years which will assess member states’ overall efforts in the fight against corruption. the first of these reports is due later this year and the council looks forward to the opportunity that this will present to review and strengthen european anti-corruption measures. but, in addition to the measures undertaken by member states, the eu institutions also need to be seen to be taking the issue of corruption seriously. we require a clear commitment from each of the eu institutions to take responsibility for ensuring that effective anti-corruption policies are in place within their own structures. this is essential for the credibility of action at eu level and for the maintenance of confidence in the political decision-making process. the council considers that the integrity of the eu’s institutions can be best demonstrated through the continuing development of measures which translate the principles of good governance into best working practices. this includes areas such as effective codes of ethic, clear rules on addressing possible conflicts of interest, unambiguous regulations on lobbying and increased transparency in policymaking. the council is also of the view that full eu membership of the council of europe’s group of states against corruption, greco, would support and strengthen the eu’s anti-corruption policy, and should therefore be a matter of priority. the council will work constructively in order to take forward its negotiations with greco so that we can find an appropriate solution to eu participation. the commission’s proposals for participation in greco were published in october 2012; following preliminary discussions, we understand that the commission is reviewing its proposal. we will engage constructively with the commission on this and we look forward to receiving a revised proposal from the commission in due course. a key actor in the protection of eu financial interests is of course the european anti-fraud office, olaf. in december, following lengthy and complex negotiations, the council was able to confirm that it had reached political agreement on amending regulation no 1073/1999, which is the basic legal act establishing olaf’s powers. the new regulation, once adopted, will strengthen olaf’s independence and clarify the tasks, duties and scope of action of olaf’s directorate-general and of the supervisory committee. it will also provide for clear reporting obligations, as well as for more timely and effective exchange of information between the various institutions and authorities involved during the different phases of investigations. the council is convinced that these reforms will make a significant contribution to increased protection of the union’s financial interests and very much hopes that agreement in the council will open the way for an early second reading agreement. the council and the eu as a whole take the fight against corruption very seriously indeed. that involves support for anti-corruption measures in the member states but also includes ensuring that our own institutions are an example to europe as a whole. much has been — and is being — done to combat corruption, but we can never afford to be complacent. so i can assure this house that, in the drive to root out corruption both in our societies and in our institutions, you will have the full support of the council of this presidency.
member of the commission. - mr president, on this extremely serious and important subject i would like to present to you a number of replies or observations by my colleague algirdas šemeta, who is currently held back by other obligations and who apologises to you. i also thank the presidency and the minister, lucinda creighton, for what she has just said, which of course goes in the same direction - she has repeatedly said this - as the efforts and actions of the commission, since this fight against fraud - this is the first point i would like to mention - concerning the union's funds, is a fundamental requirement and also a matter of respect for european taxpayers and citizens. it is linked to the fight against corruption, which remains one of the commission's strategic priorities. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but i would like to say that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. i shall begin by talking about the fight against fraud. since 2011, the commission has taken a number of initiatives to revise the institutional framework for the fight against fraud. first of all, the reform of olaf, which lucinda creighton has just mentioned. our proposal for reform of the european anti-fraud office was endorsed at political level before christmas, and i hope that this agreement, to which you have contributed, can be formalised quickly. we needed this new legal basis which will clarify the procedural rights of the persons concerned and strengthen cooperation between olaf, national judicial authorities and the eu institutions in order to make olaf work even better, and in an independent way. the second project is the directive on the criminal protection of the union's financial interests. the commission adopted this proposal for a directive on the protection of the union's financial interests against criminal offences in july 2012. this directive should specify, harmonise and strengthen the criminal law of the member states punishing offences relating to the union budget. why is this directive necessary? because not all member states protect european public money in the same way and these disparities have important consequences. so, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of 2011, national judicial authorities had decided only on 471 of the 1 030 cases that olaf had referred to them between 2006 and 2011. of these 471 decisions, only 199 resulted in a criminal conviction, which corresponds to a conviction rate of 42%. in these cases, the conviction rate varies from 19% to 92% depending on the member state. this is the hallmark of this disparity in the action of the member states. to remedy these differences, which are too great, the proposal for a directive establishes, if you will, a common definition of fraud and fraud-related offences, provides for minimum penalties for these offences and aims to extend the limitation periods. cross-border investigations are complex and time-consuming, and investigators need time to bring these cases to court. the negotiations have begun in the council and, as we had a feeling, ladies and gentlemen, they are not easy, the subject being purely royal. that is why we also need the clear and determined support of the european parliament on this very issue. the third topic is the european public prosecutor's office. we have to go further. it's an old subject. the commission will propose the creation of a european public prosecutor's office in june. experience has shown that crime affecting the financial interests of the union, being by its nature of a european dimension, calls for action at union level. the european public prosecutor's office will be able to collect evidence and prosecute fraudsters in all the member states concerned. it will effectively help - we believe - to ensure that public money does not feed the parallel or underground economy. fourthly, the anti-fraud strategy which we have put in place. of course, the commission is not relying on the member states alone. in june 2011, it presented an anti-fraud strategy to, inter alia, increase risk awareness among its own staff and improve internal tools. i would now like to turn to the activities of the european commission in the fight against corruption. olaf is working closely with the other commission services to set up the eu anti-corruption monitoring mechanism, which was announced in june 2011 in our communication on the fight against corruption throughout the european union. the directorate-general for home affairs, which is leading this initiative, is working under the supervision of my colleague, cecilia malmström. the commission has set up an expert group to provide advice on the general parameters of the monitoring mechanism. in addition, a network of national correspondents has been established, which complements and updates information from a wide variety of sources, including existing evaluation mechanisms, public authorities, experts, independent researchers, non-governmental organisations and civil society. each report on the fight against corruption will focus on a number of cross-cutting issues of particular interest to the european union, as well as on some aspects specific to each member state, which will be highlighted in country-by-country analyses. the report will therefore contain cross-cutting recommendations as well as recommendations for each country. if these recommendations are not legally binding on the member states of the union, the follow-up to them will be followed up in subsequent reports. the first report will be published next summer and will probably deal with we are working on it corruption in public procurement. in this respect, we are working on a pilot project, at the request of the european parliament. the main objective is to develop a method to measure the costs of corruption in public procurement. the indicators of corruption, the best practices in the application of public procurement legislation, for which i am also responsible as commissioner for the internal market, must be highlighted. in addition, reference criteria should be defined and useful operational recommendations should be made to the member states. we are now in the very last stage of preparing this project. the method has been developed and is currently being tested in eight member states, in five selected economic sectors, on which we spend most of the union's structural funds. the results of the study should contribute to better protecting the financial interests of the union and to developing effective anti-corruption policies at both national and union level in the future. these are the remarks i wanted to make on this important subject on behalf of the european commission. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, madam minister, corruption is a scourge which is unfortunately still all too common in all the member states of the european union. last year, for example, €1.3 million of national and european funds were diverted to private owners in one eu member state, who used it, among other things, to restore their private villas. this is a scandalous and unacceptable reality, and it reminds us that despite all the efforts made - and you have mentioned this, commissioner - we are still not sufficiently vigilant. prosecutions by national authorities for misappropriation of european funds remain rare, while fraud and its amounts remain high. the financial impact of fraud and corruption in the european union is estimated at eur 1.7 billion. we welcome the directive on the protection of financial interests. it will be very welcome when it arrives in the european parliament. the national authorities should be more aware that these european funds diverted are funds which could have financed projects, for example, of vocational integration, to combat unemployment, or of infrastructure development, of innovative projects. these projects, co-financed by the european union, are essential, especially in times of crisis. more generally, we look forward to the first report from the european commission on the state of corruption in europe and we can only invite the commission to come up with concrete and innovative proposals for each country, in order to go as far as possible in the fight against it. i therefore welcome the new reform of olaf and we hope that the procedures within this institution will be more transparent and clearer. olaf will only gain in efficiency and legitimacy. but above all we need a european prosecutor. commissioner, this proposal is essential. we can see that very few investigations are being opened and very few proceedings are being initiated for fraud against european funds. a european public prosecutor's office could help to remedy this and better defend the interests of the european union. this european public prosecutor's office could not be limited to protecting the financial interests of the european union and its powers could be extended to serious crossborder offences. i support the establishment of a centralised european prosecutor with relays in the member states. this would allow us to be more efficient, more responsive, coupled with knowledge of local realities. the european ombudsman's office would be facilitated by the proximity of the case. it should also be noted that there is statistically less fraud and that the management of funds is faster when european funds are allocated directly by the european commission, as is the case, for example, in certain regions or in certain sectors, such as research. it is a system that should be encouraged and developed further. finally, it is essential to have innovative projects, for example to ensure that whistleblowers are better protected in cases of corruption and to think about the anti-corruption mechanism, to better supervise and consolidate it.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam president, we support the resolution because the cancellation of the conference to discuss the elimination of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east can be considered a mistake, a disservice to a peaceful humanity. such a conference remains indispensable and urgent in an attempt to resolve the present serious tensions and to conclude a non-proliferation treaty. there are questions that arise, contrary to what is said here. the iranian authorities announced their participation, but the israeli government refused to attend. we wonder why. it is security and mutual trust in the region that require disarmament and i do not believe that the reverse is true. it is therefore urgently necessary, in the interests of the whole world, to break out of this kind of balance of terror and to do everything possible to create the conditions for a new dialogue, even if it is true that it is difficult to achieve. the united states and the european union have the necessary clout to take new initiatives, in conjunction with the united nations, to make progress in this direction. allowing more and more states to have nuclear weapons and allowing them to accumulate is bringing the world closer to catastrophe. this race for nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons is exacerbating tensions and increasing risks, all the more so as some states do not always have control over their military forces, let alone terrorist groups that sometimes threaten to use them. more generally, we should, beyond our opinions, all of us together - since it seems that we have received the nobel peace prize - speak out for a world free of all nuclear or chemical weapons and make sure that this money, wasted on deadly weapons, is used for life, health, the education of children, the fight against hunger, in short life, instead of being used for destruction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much regret the cancellation of the conference on the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and all weapons of mass destruction in the middle east, which was scheduled for 2012. i would like to point out and welcome the fact that several regions of the world already have such nuclear-weapon-free zones. within the european union, britain and france, for example, still have nuclear weapons. this tarnishes our credibility and our ability to influence these negotiations. the united states government should also be asked to withdraw all its tactical nuclear weapons from european territory. our goal remains a world free of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. i therefore ask mrs ashton to put the conference on the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in the middle east on the agenda as early as possible in 2013. let's not procrastinate any more, please!
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will have to vote on the ratification of the interim economic partnership agreement between the union and the southern and eastern african community. i sincerely hope that we will find a majority to ratify it. this agreement is not perfect, but it is an important step towards the normalisation of our trade relations with these countries since the cotonou agreements. it is reciprocal but asymmetrical and guarantees the legal security of our commercial relations. that is why i am convinced that a reopening of this dossier would be very damaging not only to the legal certainty which must be associated with our trade relations but also to the prospect of a full epa being established. it is, however, a fundamental element of regional integration and a driver of development. we have always valued a regional but also a multilateral approach in our development policy and in our trade policy. i believe that this agreement, without forcing regional integration, since four of the eleven countries of the southern and eastern african community have ratified it, contributes greatly to encouraging the partner countries to move forward together. the development dimension is very much present, and i am happy about that. in addition, the chapter on development aid, as such, integrates these countries into world trade and gives them tools to continue to modernise their industries. the suspension of development aid in cases of violation of human rights or democracy has also proved its worth. there can be no modern economy without human rights. the resolution on the political situation in zimbabwe accompanying the ratification illustrates this. it is important to remember that these universal values are at the heart of our external action. we must remain vigilant as the situation in zimbabwe develops. the more for more rule should not apply only to our neighbours.
mr president, commissioner, non-preferential rules of origin are crucial for the competitiveness of our companies. they play an undeniable role in the fight against counterfeiting, they enable the control of quotas and, above all, they serve as the basis for anti-dumping measures. in a context where the commission is telling us that it will withdraw its proposal for a regulation on origin labelling in the coming months, where we are working on modernising the customs code and where we are waiting for a proposal to modernise our trade defence instruments, i think it is useful, if not essential, to have this debate. should we change, modernise or extend our system of non-preferential rules of origin? i am personally in favour of this if it is in the direction of administrative simplification for our companies, but it must not lead to a weakening of the existing rules, the move to a list which should make those rules of origin clearer. we should perhaps take advantage of this to approximate, if not harmonize, the systems of the new gsp rules of origin and those of the pan-euro-mediterranean convention. we know that one of the essential factors for the health of commerce and industry is legal certainty. does the commission think that its proposal will be accompanied by an increase in legal certainty? some fear an increase in bureaucracy and, therefore, costs for businesses. i remain convinced that, if these lists of non-preferential rules of origin are well drawn up, they should, on the contrary, make things easier for companies, particularly in terms of predictability and ease of determining the origin of the goods. i am concerned, however, about one point: what is most penalising our companies is not the rules of origin, which apply when they import products into european territory, but rather the variety of rules of origin which may apply depending on the country to which they export. i would therefore like to know how the commission intends to support exporting companies.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, restricting the number of hand luggage is not just one commercial policy among many. it encourages, or even forces, travellers to make other choices, including shopping on board rather than at airports. the commissioner, the information is not clear today. this baggage restriction, when it becomes drastic, infringes the freedom of air passengers. we're stopping them from choosing, stopping them from buying at airports. the commission has also taken the view that the aid granted to ryanair is compatible with the internal market. for regional airports, the problem is sometimes even very worrying. on the one hand, low-cost airlines are moving in in exchange for financial advantages, and on the other hand, these same airlines are developing baggage policies that are detrimental to airport trade. when a regional airport is served only by low-cost airlines, i see a real danger of financial dependence. should airports really be condemned to accept all the conditions of airlines, even to the detriment of the passengers they welcome? i am, of course, aware that the arrival of low-cost airlines has enabled the growth of our airports and, in particular, of certain regional airports. but we must ensure that this mutual understanding does not lead to an abuse of a dominant position. this single baggage policy also poses a problem of competition between airlines and the danger would be that all airlines, in order to be on a level playing field, would apply the single-handed baggage rule. i think that at the very least, duty-free products should not be considered as hand luggage. i think that would allow us to answer the problem directly.
in writing. mr commissioner, it is now common practice to see passengers being forced to put their handbags or duty free purchases in their cabin baggage when they board. and if, unfortunately, in their haste they fail to do so or their luggage seems too bulky to the crew, they often have to pay extra, particularly high, fees. we have been warning you for several years now, commissioner, of the inconveniences of this commercial practice. your only response so far has been to acknowledge the confusion and exasperation of the passengers, but in no way to propose any action to address it. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it is therefore high time that these rules were harmonised and that it was defined what passengers could be carried on board and under what conditions. that is my ambition in the context of the review of air passenger rights. i sincerely hope that we can count on you to fly to the rescue of the travelers.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, you have not been unaware that we are going through a very serious crisis and that a large part of our citizens are anxious and worried about the process of globalisation. they have lost their bearings and are also subject, in a certain way, to constantly conflicting pressures. on the one hand, they are told: 'you consumers must consume more to promote growth, which is no longer clear to whom it benefits, and to save jobs.' and at the same time, they're told, "you're consuming too much, or you're consuming wrong, and it's destroying the planet". at a time when this parliament, in europe, is trying to strengthen consumer rights a little, to give them the tools to be actors, too, in globalisation and trade, you explain to us that this represents a barrier to trade. we can see that either you have confidence in liberalism, which the commission and yourself support, and you consider that the benefits of liberalism are so obvious that you should not be afraid to strengthen consumer rights, or the crisis shows that this form of liberalism has also failed and you cannot, at that time, simply propose that the commission should strengthen controls on imports of products. we're in a world where citizens need to be actors, where consumers need to be able to choose. the 'made in' does not answer all the questions about social dumping, environmental dumping or other subjects, but it is a reference tool and it is a tool that allows you to be, again, an actor in your life. citizens want to know, citizens want to choose. we therefore ask you, commissioner, to ensure that this consumer right is strengthened and that the commission, for which you are responsible here, does not ignore parliament's responsibility. you also have a responsibility to urge the council not to flout parliament's right. the council is not here - you are right to note this - but once again, in this crisis of globalisation, let us fight to strengthen the rights of citizens, as well as those of consumers.
madam president, i am stunned by this. the european parliament is surprised and concerned by the commission's decision to withdraw its proposal for a regulation on 'made in' origin marking. parliament had nevertheless adopted the proposal for a regulation by a majority of more than 85% of its members. by withdrawing this very proposal, on which we voted more than two years ago, you are disregarding the opinion of the members of parliament and, consequently, of the european citizens. you are all the more contemptuous of it because 'made in' is an essential component of consumer information. this is a very negative sign, given the crisis of confidence in european politics and institutions that we are experiencing. you tell us that the main reason for this future withdrawal is that the proposal has become obsolete, following the wto case law on cool. stop thinking we're more naive than we are! in that case, what is preventing the commission from making a new proposal taking account of this case law? how do you explain the fact that brazil, canada and the united states find a way to reconcile the regulation of 'made in' with their obligations to the wto? so let's stop lying to each other! the real reason for this withdrawal is to save face when the council is unable to reach an agreement. our competitiveness is in tatters and our response to the crisis is to deprive ourselves of one of the tools at our disposal, and that is not reasonable. i sincerely hope that in 2013 you will find a more reasonable solution to this problem, and i hope that the council will open its eyes for once.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than ten years since the negotiations with mercosur began. we have the same neoliberal recipes on the table as in the agreements with colombia and peru, or with central america, based on a disagreement, a total imbalance between our two regions: on the one hand, the import of raw materials, agricultural products, which convey the vision of a latin america that would be the wheat barn of europe, to the detriment of farmers, both in latin america and europe, on the other hand, the export of raw materials, of services. this is not the evolution we want. today we are being offered a resolution to speed up the mercosur negotiations, in preparation for the summit at the end of the month. my group does not support this resolution. you have no doubt noticed that since 1999 there have been profound political upheavals in this region. after the coup, paraguay was rightly suspended from mercosur. venezuela is now a full member. bolivia, chile, they're on their way. peru, ecuador, are now partners. so we have the following picture: on the one hand, negotiations that have been completely blocked, on the other, a profound political change. and from a legislative point of view, i am observing with great interest, as rapporteur for the report on biopiracy, which was voted on in this house earlier this week, legislative developments in some countries, for example in brazil, on intellectual property or the priority now given to free software, to generics. the regional balances are changing very rapidly. negotiating and pursuing it as it is is counterproductive. in short, we are in favour of greater regional integration, of negotiations between blocs, of balanced negotiations, and the solution seems to me obvious: we must resume the negotiations from the beginning, with the right actors.
mr president, commissioner, mercosur was created in 1991 by the treaty of asunción, and your mandate was given to you by the ministers of the member states in 1999. on the formal side, i wonder if you should not at least have this mandate revalidated by the union's council of ministers, because since 1999 economic conditions have changed: twelve more member states have joined the union and the lisbon treaty now gives us the political power to ratify trade treaties. i regret, moreover, the absence of the council, which could have attended this debate. in the background, we can get the feeling that the two blocs are adopting a mutually distrustful attitude. the mercosur bloc has less and less confidence in the european union, because of the monetary, financial and economic disorders we have. that is what we are hearing, commissioner. you say no, but when we go there, they tell us. the president of brazil says in all international conferences that it is our monetary policy that causes the real to rise. no one's responding to me. commissioner barnier has reacted. we have to tell them that's not true and that the real is rising because their economy is doing well. on the other hand, we have real reasons for distrust of this country. they suspended paraguay illegally; we didn't say anything. the accession of venezuela is illegal; we didn't say anything. the customs union is not working; we're not saying anything. the trade justice system does not allow this trade agreement to be implemented. there is protectionism. the falklands... in short, i think we must check whether this area has the guarantees, the political, administrative and democratic quality necessary for confidence to be the basis of a political association treaty.
mr president, commissioner, naturally two large economic blocs such as europe and mercosur have an interest in having clear partnership relations and we have an interest in reaching an agreement. but, as has already been said, i would like to draw your attention to the evolution of europe, the evolution of the south american continent, in relation to the moment when you were given the mandate. we are no longer dealing with the same economy, we are no longer dealing with the same men, and our parliament is legitimate when it tells you that it is necessary to renegotiate a mandate. can you give us any guarantees in the context of the current negotiations on the reciprocal measures we are calling for in terms of consumer protection? we have seen in recent months that these south american countries have no qualms about applying protectionist measures when they see fit. these measures are financial measures. we are asking for health measures, measures to protect the european consumer. we know that our consumers are very concerned about the quality of the products they consume.
in writing. this is the first partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european union and iraq. i voted in favour of this agreement, which provides a general basis for strengthening links and cooperation in many areas such as political issues, the fight against terrorism and the promotion of human rights, trade and investment in key areas such as energy and services.
in writing. this resolution deals mainly with the issues of human rights and the rule of law in iraq. in this sense, it is the exact opposite of the free trade agreement which it advocates. the contrast is striking. it is regrettable that the rapporteur draws no conclusions from this. i denounce the support for european imperialism which this text represents and the arbitrariness of the words used. it is simply unacceptable to declare that it is impossible to promote the economic and social integration of the iraqi people as a whole. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report and i hope that the commission will be able to support it. the objectives of the war and occupation, of which the iraqi people have been the victims, are nevertheless at risk of failure.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because it is important to support iraq in its democratic progress. since 2005, the country has held elections, adopted a constitution by referendum, and established the foundations of a federal state. elections are scheduled again in the coming months, and an iraqi high commission for human rights has just been established. however, challenges remain, including the security situation in the country, the fight against corruption, the consolidation of the rule of law and respect for human rights. despite repeated requests by the union, the death penalty is still applied and cases of torture are regularly revealed.
in writing. this is the first partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european union and iraq. i voted in favour of this agreement, which provides a general basis for strengthening links and cooperation in many areas such as political issues, the fight against terrorism and the promotion of human rights, trade and investment in key areas such as energy and services.
in writing. the signing of a partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq marks a new chapter in the eu's deepening of relations with the country, which began in 2006. through this agreement, the eu is affirming its willingness to play an important role in iraq's political transition and development, and in its integration into the world economy. this historic agreement will strengthen our relations in several key areas, starting with the political area, which establishes an annual dialogue on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, including the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. in this context, it is important that the union contributes to respect for religious and ethnic minorities. we also welcome the cooperation which will enable iraq to ratify the rome statute, that is to say to recognise the authority of the icc. the agreement will strengthen cooperation in the social, medical and educational fields, helping to rebuild a country ravaged by war, terrorism and poverty, and consolidating its democratic transition. it is a sign of the eu's willingness to contribute to the establishment of lasting peace in this severely wounded part of the world.
in writing. the conclusion of this partnership and cooperation agreement will mark a fundamental milestone in relations between the european union and iraq. it is thanks to him that we will become a privileged partner at a historic moment in the history of this great country, that of its reconstruction and democratic consolidation. i welcome the broad emphasis on human rights and the fight against poverty. we will thus play an active part in the recovery of the country and the strengthening of its institutions, to the benefit of the strengthening of stability in the whole region. i support this commitment of europe to the iraqi people.
in writing. the report proposes to approve an agreement for the gradual establishment of free trade between the union and iraq. reconstruction aid and political dialogue are minor issues in this agreement, as are human rights and the rule of law. the aim is to accelerate the exchange of goods and services, particularly energy resources. the iraqi people have already suffered a long dictatorship and two wars of aggression. he continues to suffer the consequences of all this daily. i refuse to support the fact that it is now being forced to adopt a market economy and fiscal austerity for the benefit of the financial markets, as this agreement requires. i vote against it.
in writing. by voting in favour of this report, i am giving the go-ahead for the cooperation and partnership agreement with iraq. this agreement is historic, first because it is the first agreement between the eu and this country, and second because it will complete its transition to democracy, rebuild and normalise its relations with the international community. it should stimulate ties between the two sides in several areas, from trade to investment and development. the agreement also promotes human rights and fundamental freedoms and aims to combat terrorism and the proliferation of weapons. i would stress that it is crucial to align our political ambitions with the means at hand: to enable the eu to play a meaningful role in the transition in iraq, the eu delegation in baghdad must be fully operational, equipped with the necessary human resources, and have its own premises. in addition, the head of delegation should be able to travel safely to verify the correct implementation of eu-funded programmes and to observe the human rights situation and the reform process.
in writing. i voted in favour of the partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq because it is a question of the union establishing a dialogue with iraq on the long term, and in different areas. this partnership and cooperation agreement is a milestone in relations between the european union and iraq. it will provide a solid foundation for democracy, human rights, economic development and trade relations (the latter developing in the context of iraq's 2004 application for wto membership). the iraqi people are currently living in difficult conditions: insecurity, corruption, unemployment and lack of respect for human rights. iraq's 2012 oil revenue was over $80 billion, while 88% of the iraqi population lives below the poverty line. the union must be present and bring added value to the democratic construction of the country. the first is to support iraq's democratic transition by accompanying the country in its reforms. the trade and investment part of the agreement will develop lasting and mutually beneficial economic relations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which recalls the political situation in zimbabwe, in the context of the implementation of the interim economic partnership agreement (epa). the economy is an important lever and can help to pacify conflicts, especially political ones, given the upcoming elections in this country.
in writing. the resolution, which enshrines an interim economic partnership agreement (epa) between the european union and the eastern and southern africa region, will give four african countries (madagascar, zimbabwe, the seychelles and mauritius) free access to the eu market. in exchange for the abolition of customs duties and quotas, which will make it easier for them to sell their goods within the european union (mainly coffee, sugar and tobacco), these countries will have to gradually open their markets to european union exports over a period of 15 years. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the first agreement of its kind with an african region and will enable the countries concerned to promote their economies, their sustainable development and to reduce poverty. however, we also adopted a resolution expressing our concern about zimbabwe's respect for human rights and our doubts, therefore, about the validity of its participation in the agreement.
in writing. the aim of this text is to establish a legal situation compatible with the rules of the world trade organisation, replacing the unilateral trade preferences granted by the european union to imports from the acp countries. i voted in favour of this text, which is a step towards a future global agreement and includes a meeting clause for continuing negotiations.
in writing. this agreement will strengthen the institutions and economies of the countries of eastern and southern africa. our economic relations are bound to develop, strengthening the links between our two regions. i am particularly pleased that these states will be able to protect some of their products which they consider sensitive: the differences in development between our economies are significant, and we must ensure that both parties to the agreement benefit from this, without taking undue advantage of the opening up of our markets. to allow a balanced development of our partners, this agreement will make our relations clearer and stronger, to the benefit of a strengthened and calmer business and investment climate.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which improves the transparency of trade relations between the european union and the states of eastern and southern africa. as the text adopted today makes clear, these agreements must of course be conditional on respect for human rights and the rule of law, which are fundamental values for europeans. this text will also make it possible to promote our local products better by facilitating their export to the markets of eastern and southern africa. the european union is thus showing its support for the products of our lands and is respecting its commitments to defend diversity.
in writing. zimbabwe is one of the few signatories to the agreement. it is true that some violations of human rights are mentioned, both in the explanatory statement and in the resolution which is being discussed alongside this report. i am surprised, however, at the deafening silence of these texts on the corruption and violence of the mugabe regime, especially those suffered by certain ethnic minorities. but it is true that here we have not been moved by the armed expropriation and murder of white farmers who are just as much zimbabweans as their tormentors and persecutors. double standards, as usual when it comes to anti-white racism. i have also seen this house more reactive to measures which violate the principles you hold sacrosanct, such as competition, freedom of investment, wto rules... i am therefore surprised at your silence on the compulsory indigenisation of foreign companies in zimbabwe, requiring the sale of majority shares of their capital to zimbabweans, exclusively black zimbabweans. coming from any european or american country, this measure of national preference and reappropriation of enterprises by national economic actors would have raised an outcry. you are at best naive, at worst hypocritical, at best inconsistent.
in writing. the greens generally take a very critical stance on epas. i voted against the approval of this interim economic partnership agreement (epa) between the eu and the four acp countries in the eastern and southern africa (esa) region. the reasons are simple. this agreement leaves much to be desired. according to the cotonou agreement, sustainable development must be at the heart of epas. however, this epo does not meet that requirement. it does not contain any chapter on sustainable development, respect for labour standards and environmental protection. in addition, it contains many provisions which the acp countries consider to be contrary to their development needs and which they have expressly requested to be amended. it would also destroy efforts to move towards greater regional integration. finally, the fact that madagascar, the only ldc among the signatories, and zimbabwe are parties to this agreement also raises questions of the coherence of development policies, particularly in view of the human rights situation in their territory.
in writing. this report endorses the interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the eu and certain states in eastern and southern africa. it therefore endorses the blackmail on the east and south african states which have not accepted the agreement. it also endorses the 'date-set clause' obliging signatory states to sign a full free trade agreement with the eu in the coming years. i denounce the organized plunder of the countries of east and southern africa that this agreement organizes. i refuse to endorse the misery and dependency to which he condemns the people of this part of the world. the collapse of the malian state and its consequences should be a sufficient warning. but the blind free-market ideologues don't care. i vote against it.
in writing. the conclusion of a framework for economic partnership agreements between the european union and the states of eastern and southern africa has been postponed for several years, due to the opposition of many of the countries concerned. the commission has therefore opted for the conclusion of interim agreements with regional sub-groups of these countries. while réunion is in the geographical area covered by these agreements, the european commission has not worked with the elected representatives of réunion to ensure that this agreement really takes into account the expectations and interests of réunion. thus, while the economic partnership agreements are supposed to reduce poverty and bring about greater regional integration of the acp countries, their effectiveness is strongly contested by ngos and the countries concerned themselves. moreover, the agreement contains no mention of sustainable development, respect for workers' rights and trade union rights, nor does it contain any provision on human rights. i have therefore decided to vote against the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the interim epa between the european union and the states of east and southern africa.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it stresses the need to reduce state aid and to target it better. this will relieve pressure on public spending and avoid distortions of competition. the aim is to promote the transition to a knowledge-based economy as defined at european level in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. state aid is a crucial instrument for our economies: it enables projects that are essential to our citizens to be brought to life. i'm talking about our transportation, our culture, and many other riches. i am therefore surprised that the european commission has opted for a simple consultation of parliament. the subject of state aid is crucial for our companies and our citizens. they must be modernised, as our competitiveness and quality of life depend on it. i therefore supported this resolution, so as not to risk widening europe's democratic deficit on such an important subject.
in writing. in may 2012, the european commission adopted a communication on the modernisation of state aid, presenting a rather ambitious reform agenda, in particular in the area of rescue and restructuring aid. this resolution, which i voted in favour of, was therefore very much expected. in a context of particular attention to reducing the public debts of the member states, it stressed the need to reduce and better target state aid, which should be better allocated to the development of services, knowledge and infrastructure rather than to one-off support for certain enterprises. the resolution also recalls that the primary task of state aid control is to guarantee a level playing field in the european single market.
in writing. this text supports the drastic limitation of state aid to avoid distortion of free competition in the eu internal market. it is not concerned for a single moment with the plight of citizens who are left to their own devices because of the lack of public support for their enterprises. he is concerned about the democratic control which parliament must exercise over the european commission only to check that it does not allow too much state aid. i am voting against this text and denouncing it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which recalls the tragedy of the recent fires in bangladesh. i also supported the amendments recalling and condemning the unacceptable working conditions to which many bangladeshis are subject, particularly in the case of the jeans factories.
in writing. the increasing number of tragic and repeated accidents in recent weeks and months is a testimony to the increasingly difficult working conditions of workers in the textile industry. the number of victims in bangladesh is particularly chilling. europe cannot shirk its own responsibilities. social dumping and practices which are tantamount to slavery are well known. the european union, the world's largest economy with 500 million consumers, can act. we need strong, legally binding decisions to change practices. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in the face of such tragedies, the eu cannot remain silent, which is why i support the call for the establishment of a system of transnational legal cooperation between the european union and third countries that are signatories to bilateral trade agreements, so that victims of breaches of social or environmental legislation or of non-compliance by multinationals and their immediate subsidiaries with the principles of corporate social responsibility (csr) or fair trade practices can effectively bring cases before the courts of the country where the breach has occurred, and i support the establishment of international judicial procedures that allow, where appropriate, to sanction companies that break the law. even if corporate social responsibility is voluntary, we should be able to punish companies that, outside the eu, forget all the basic principles of human rights. it would also be good if the eu banned the import of products made by manual and mechanical sandblasting. sandblasting, a widespread practice in bangladesh, is very dangerous and even deadly for workers.
in writing. in bangladesh, negligence in terms of safety, overcrowding and (deplorable) working conditions have caused fires in textile factories, which have claimed the lives of more than 700 people since 2006. the extreme danger of these factories, many of which are working for international companies, is regularly denounced, unfortunately without any real consideration on the part of the public authorities or the contractors directly concerned. this situation, which is contrary to the most basic rights and obligations, must be constantly denounced, so that the operators in the supply chain and the state of bangladesh can ensure that the standards of the international labour organization (ilo) and the principles of corporate social responsibility (csr) are finally systematically applied by manufacturers. european companies have a duty to set an example in this respect. some, however, do not live up to the standards of good conduct that they themselves have adopted. the european union and the member states must firmly and resolutely remind them that they must take the necessary measures to ensure the protection of workers and not commit human rights violations.
in writing. the situation of textile workers in bangladesh is alarming today. in the last six years, more than 500 people have died in factory fires. on november 24th, 112 people were reported missing in the tazreen factory fire. the european union is directly concerned, as it remains the main recipient of bangladesh's textile exports. european companies must therefore play an important role in promoting and disseminating social and labour law standards, not only in bangladesh but throughout the world. i voted for this resolution because it is important that the bangladeshi authorities work with engineers, architects and emergency services to improve safety at work. it is also imperative that laws be respected by multinational companies and that sanctions be enforced. the european union has a role to play, particularly at the local level through the eu delegation and the eeas, which are already the contact points for bangladeshi workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution which recalls the commitment of the european union to use all the instruments at its disposal to prevent, deter, halt and, if possible, eliminate proliferation programmes of global concern.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in the middle east. i welcome the emphasis on security issues in the region, in particular the situation in syria and iran. i also welcome the inclusion of all the actors involved in the process of achieving a middle east free of weapons of mass destruction.
in writing. non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east must be a priority for the international community. it is therefore particularly regrettable that the conference on the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east, originally scheduled for 2012, has been postponed indefinitely, jeopardising regional security and the highly desirable prospect of seeing this territorial space so fragile from successive wars finally denuclearized. we cannot continue in this dangerous status quo. the european union's mission is to put pressure on the countries of the region to return to the negotiating table. it is a vital issue for peace but also for the economic development of a region which urgently needs stability.
in writing. this resolution supports the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and all other forms of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east. i strongly endorse this support. i regret, however, the partiality of the text, which expresses concern about the iranian nuclear programme but does not say a word about israel's military nuclear arsenal. this partiality makes the will expressed in this purely declarative text to work towards the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone uncredible. i am voting for it, however, in support of the will expressed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution which calls on the commission to undertake urgently a comparative study of the legislation on origin marking in force and applied in each wto member country. this will allow us to analyse the principles underlying them and assess their compatibility with wto rules in order to better protect our businesses too.
in writing. the european parliament voted in 2010 to make it clear how crucial it is for european consumers to have access to reliable and transparent information on the origin of the products they buy. in view of the reluctance of some member states to oppose such a measure, the legislative procedure was blocked, leading the european commission to decide unilaterally to withdraw the draft. we should be able to ensure that consumers are fully informed and traceable, in accordance with the wto rules. the eu's main partners and competitors, such as china, the united states and brazil, require it for goods imported from the eu. we must ensure that products entering the european market are traceable. it was the commission's duty, in the interests of good interinstitutional cooperation and respect for european citizens, to consult the european parliament before withdrawing its proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on origin labelling. since the commission is considering withdrawing its proposal, the european parliament should reiterate its determination and call on the council and the commission to account for this. i believe that legislation on the marking of origin would be of considerable benefit to european consumers.
in writing. "made in" is a useful signature for consumers. this mark enables them to better guide their choices and can be a true sign of trust and quality. do all products have to bear such a marking? this is a matter for reflection, and all avenues must be explored. that is why i voted in favour of this text: it is unacceptable that the commission should withdraw its draft regulation, thus muzzling any constructive discussion. this is a useful reflection for our economy and for the confidence of citizens in the single market. the debate must be reopened, and quickly.
in writing. in 2005, the european commission proposed a european instrument to provide european consumers with full information on the origin of certain products from third countries. as early as 2010, the european parliament called for the swift implementation of such an instrument. but the proposal for a regulation has now been blocked in the council for two years for no apparent reason and the commission is now considering withdrawing its proposal, thus stopping the legislative procedure. the commission cannot withdraw its draft regulation on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries without a valid justification without putting forward an alternative proposal in accordance with wto rules. the commission and the council must understand that the european union cannot be left behind in the field of origin labelling, even though other trading powers such as the united states, canada, brazil and china already have this effective instrument at their disposal. this is a step forward that europe needs to make in order to improve the competitiveness of its businesses, to ensure fair competition and to guarantee the protection of its consumers.
in writing. in october 2010, we felt, by a large majority in the european parliament, that it was crucial to enable european consumers to have access to reliable and transparent information on the origin of the products they buy. unfortunately, a number of member states opposed such a measure, thus blocking the legislative procedure. it was in this context that the european commission unilaterally decided to withdraw the project. while some of the new rules laid down by the world trade organisation may indeed require amendments, it seems to me that it is more necessary than ever to ensure full traceability and information for consumers. the european union's main partners, such as china, the united states and brazil, do not hesitate to demand these from goods imported from the union! in addition to the merits of such a system, by adopting this resolution we wish to denounce the method followed by the commission. in the spirit of good interinstitutional cooperation and in the interest of respecting european citizens, the commission should have consulted the european parliament before withdrawing its proposal. we therefore expect clear and reasoned answers from the commission on both the substance and the form.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the member states to agree on mandatory origin labelling and to adopt european legislation on the indication of the country of origin of products imported from third countries. the european union should have harmonised rules on the indication of the origin of imported products. compulsory origin marking systems have been introduced for certain products by wto third countries such as brazil, canada, china and the united states. common provisions are essential to improve competitiveness among wto member countries and to ensure a level playing field with partner countries that have adopted the marking of origin.
in writing. many countries, such as china, the united states and brazil, have mandatory origin marking systems for the import of goods such as textiles, shoes, jewellery and glassware from third countries. i find it quite extraordinary that the same obligation does not exist in europe for imported goods. european consumers should also be informed of the origin of the products they consume when they come from third countries in order to make informed choices. the commission had put a proposal to that effect on the table, but while the text has been under discussion in the council for several years, the commission announced its decision to withdraw it, considering that it was no longer compatible with wto rules. in this resolution, of which i am one of the co-signatories, we ask the commission to reconsider this decision or, failing that, to propose new legislation compatible with wto rules, and the council to take a decision on the text quickly so that the interinstitutional debate can continue. i hope we'll be heard.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution, recalling that mercosur is an important trading partner. however, any trade negotiations must give priority to sustainable development, job creation, social justice, the environment and cultural diversity in both the mercosur region and the union. we have asked the commission not to stick to its traditional model of free trade agreement but to design new forms of trade agreements adapted to the needs of its relations with specific partners.
in writing. in 2010, after several years of stagnation, the european union and mercosur officially relaunched trade negotiations with the aim of reaching a comprehensive and ambitious agreement that would consolidate and develop their respective economies. mercosur and the european union are two of the world's largest trading powers and must become privileged trading partners. the two regions must show good will to finally overcome their blockages and make real progress in the negotiations. we hope that the next mercosur-eu ministerial meeting, to be held at the end of january, will be an opportunity for both sides to relaunch the dialogue and to commit themselves to balanced trade objectives.
in writing. we expressed our views in a resolution on the progress of trade negotiations between the eu and its south american counterpart, mercosur. at this stage, negotiations are at a standstill, as there is a certain degree of mistrust on both sides. we have reiterated that trust is essential as the basis of any agreement. we must, for our part, verify that the mercosur area is still in the same frame of mind with regard to the conclusion of a trade agreement, which the protectionist practices of a number of countries on the latin american continent may make relativistic. it is also possible that the negotiating mandate given to the european commissioner for external trade in 1999 should be re-validated.
in writing. this resolution denounces the protectionism put in place by the progressive governments of the mercosur member states in the interests of their populations. it implicitly threatens the mercosur states with trade reprisals. it says nothing about the coup d'état in paraguay (which this parliament has not yet denounced, nor the coup in honduras). i vote against it.
in writing. this resolution, which i supported by voting in favour of, shows our hopes and our doubts about a possible regional agreement between the eu and mercosur. firstly, we hope that these negotiations will one day be concluded with a region which is experiencing tremendous economic growth and which has a population of over 800 million. and then there are the doubts: can the mercosur countries continue to negotiate this agreement with the eu while introducing protectionist measures? the negotiations, which, i remind you, have already been resumed after a long break, can they continue in this context of eroding trust between the two sides? the next eu-mercosur meeting will take place at the end of january, in parallel with the eu-celac summit in santiago, chile. i hope very much that it will help to answer these questions.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the fact that india is the subject of a second debate in the european parliament in two months. it is the world's largest democracy, and yet the situation of women is catastrophic. sexual violence is trivialised; there's a rape every 20 minutes. it is very difficult for a woman to report her rapists, to the point that the police often refuse to register complaints and advise victims to marry their rapists, if they do not want to be rejected by the community. in addition to sexual violence, there are many other forms of violence and discrimination: forced marriage and prostitution, abuse of young girls, extreme poverty, unequal access to resources and health care. every year, two million women and girls die in india. but in the face of this, an unprecedented wave of solidarity has swept delhi, after the rape and death of this 23-year-old woman on december 16th. these demonstrations have broken powerful taboos and archaic beliefs. the european union must support this change, particularly through educational and health programmes. the government and parliament of india must strengthen the legislation to ensure the safety and respect of women's rights. indian justice must break with impunity. a national plan for prevention and support for victims must be put in place. it is high time for behaviour and mindset to change in india. it is high time that women were given back respect and dignity.
author. - mr president, according to recent surveys, india is currently the fourth most dangerous country in the world for women, the worst country in the g20, because, let us not forget, india is a member of the club of great nations. it's a developing country. he mustn't forget his wives. as our resolution says, as our colleague mr delli has just said, a woman is raped every 20 minutes or, more precisely, a rape is reported every 20 minutes, because too many rapes are never reported. more importantly, most of the time, the police fail to protect women. indian legislation is one of the most archaic in this area. the poorest women are particularly victims of this violence, and let us not forget the weight of caste in this country. the rape of a 23-year-old student in late 2012 has stirred a furor in india and beyond. since then, national and international press reports have been published on many other cases. but that's not enough. some are now calling for the reintroduction of the death penalty. let us therefore urge india to honour its international commitments!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, you are all aware of the brutal sexual assaults perpetrated against indian women in recent weeks. the resolution we are going to adopt today - and i hope we will adopt it - condemns all these crimes and, moreover, proposes measures for urgent justice reforms that can actually punish the aggressors, as well as some programmes for education, to prevent this scourge of this society. i have only a minute, but i would like to give you some figures: in india there are currently 32 million cases pending trial, and cases of violence against women in india represent the deaths of one and a half million of them a year. the indian nobel prize winner in economics, amartya sen, spoke in 1990 of the missing women, in the sense of denouncing the different forms of violence against women. according to their estimates, some 100 million women were missing from the world because of selective abortions of female fetuses, infanticide of newborn babies, and malnutrition of young girls. we must do everything in our power.
for the greens/efa group mr president, in india we see a real paradox: two indias facing each other. one has over the decades adopted a number of pro-women reforms: raising the legal age of marriage, banning dowry, quotas for women in politics, combating domestic violence, equal rights on farms. the other india remains rooted in a patriarchal and misogynistic culture, which holds back all progress and forces most women to live without rights, without a voice, without choices. the example of india shows us how - and it is essential to emphasize this in our parliamentary chamber - the passing of laws is only a step. we all tend to celebrate their adoption a little too quickly, but often, in the absence of political will, they remain dead letters. it is this political will alone, in india as elsewhere, that will bring about a real change in societies, a change in mindsets through education and prevention. (applause) i would like to thank
author. - mr president, bahrain is indeed one of the arab countries in which the tunisian revolution has provoked waves of popular mobilization. they were violently suppressed. worse still, this repression was carried out with the help of the army of our great neighbour saudi arabia, whose harmful role is well known elsewhere. the repression has not stopped for two years and the violations of human rights have continued to increase. we are being led to believe that this is a simple ethnic-religious conflict between the sunni elite and the majority of the shia population, forgetting that behind this there are, as in tunisia, economic and social demands. however, some member states have not severed their economic relations with bahrain, including by providing arms and tools to suppress protesters, such as tear gas and crowd control equipment. when will the european union and its member states finally respect the clauses on democracy and human rights? when will it ban this kind of export? but that would be a sign, commissioner, that the european union is worthy of its nobel peace prize.
author. - mr president, the central african republic is one of the poorest countries in the world. 70% of its population lives below the poverty line, despite the fact that the country has a relatively small population and, above all, abundant natural resources. that's been said before. the central african republic has been the scene of many coups, rebellions and mutinies since its independence, including the 14 years of the dark reign of jean-bedel bokassa. no need to remind here how the current head of state came to power in 2003, and the widely contested elections of 2011 did not in any way legitimize him. civil war and foreign interference have been almost constant since then, despite the peace agreements of 2007. it is a country which is of no interest to the european union, not even to the european parliament. the last relevant resolution on this country dates from 2001, twelve years ago, the date of the first failed coup attempt by françois bozizé. so it's time to wake up. after fighting resumed last december, a peace agreement was signed between the various forces involved, with the support of regional organisations. the european union, which has recently entered into a political dialogue with the country under the cotonou agreements, must do everything possible to support the peace process and, above all, to ensure that its aid actually reaches the people of central africa.
the question is "blue cardboard". i would just like to ask mr preda whether he considers economic and social rights to be human rights. the access of local people to natural resources seems to me to be one of the fundamental rights of these local people.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, first of all i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the two rapporteurs, mr mato adrover and mr papastamkos. i would also like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs and the services, on behalf of the commission, for their hard work in producing this excellent report. the adoption of these rules is important, since they are proposals to align legislative texts with the new rules of the lisbon treaty on delegated and implementing powers. these are the first to be adopted in the field of agriculture and rural development. there has been very good cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission and this has created the conditions for adopting these proposals at first reading. the adoption of the texts is important because it makes it possible to apply improved and simplified provisions to farmers in the outermost regions and the smaller aegean islands. the texts also provide for greater budgetary flexibility between the two parts of the programmes, namely the specific supply arrangements and measures to support local production, for those member states which need it. moreover, as regards the posei scheme, the entry into force of the new regulation will allow member states to grant additional aid to banana producers in the outermost regions in 2013 to help them strengthen the sector, making it more competitive and sustainable in the face of changing market conditions. this is important, given the fragile socioeconomic fabric of these regions, which are often very heavily dependent on the banana sector, which is also suffering from a lack of competitiveness. the new regulation also provides that in any analysis, study or evaluation carried out by the commission in the context of trade agreements and the common agricultural policy, a specific chapter will be devoted to the outermost regions where they are concerned, thus making it possible to assess the expected impact of any change in market conditions. the compromise reached by parliament and the council can therefore be fully accepted by the commission. the new posei regulation paves the way for a review of this scheme with a view to its overall effectiveness and also in the light of the cap reform. the commission services have already started this work and will present the results before the end of 2013. i look forward to hearing the comments of the members and thank you for your attention.
the committee on international trade has been asked to submit a report to the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. - madam president, i am very pleased that a compromise has been reached. the economic crisis - we all know it - is hitting these regions very hard, with unemployment affecting 60% of young people. the insularity, the remoteness, the climate, the dependence on too few products make their farmers particularly vulnerable. we must also bear in mind that this sector is facing competition from neighbouring countries where, in most cases, wages are much lower and social, environmental and health standards are much less stringent than our own standards, which too often creates unfair competition. i really believe that support for local production in the outermost regions is an asset, not only for these regions of course, but also for the diversity and quality of agricultural production throughout europe. i am therefore particularly pleased, as mrs reding has just said, and the rapporteurs are also pleased, that this new regulation is being put into effect, with improved, simplified provisions, with increased financial resources, particularly for banana producers.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, on behalf of the committee on regional development, i would first like to congratulate our colleague mr gabriel mato adrover on the quality of his work and the important progress made in the negotiations during the trilogues. i would also like to say that it is thanks to the european parliament that posei is now consolidated, both in its foundations and in its objectives. it is the mobilisation, i believe, of all the members of the rup and the committees that has made it possible for article 349 of the treaty to be a legal basis today. this is an important aspect and i hope that it will pave the way for the incorporation of article 349 into other regulations, such as the common fisheries policy, the emff, etc. it is a symbol which has a meaning, since, as you know, posei was the first programme devoted to these remote regions. however, we must also keep an eye on the negotiations on the common agricultural policy and on the european union's trade policy, which often weakens these sectors, as regards bananas and sugar. it would not be acceptable for what we have gained on one side to be lost on the other.
madam president, i would like to pay tribute to the work of our colleague mr gabriel mato adrover. it is an excellent report, because it responds to the specific needs of the outermost regions by providing for a special regime for them, in accordance with article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i'm very happy about that. i would like to highlight five of the points made by the rapporteur which i think are relevant. first, we have introduced more flexibility at the procedural level by removing certain requirements and shortening deadlines. secondly, we have called for the preparation of impact studies in order to better anticipate the effects of trade agreements with third countries on the economies of the outermost regions. this is a development worth noting. it is necessary to anticipate the impact of free trade agreements concluded with third countries in order to limit and minimise the negative effects on the fragile economies of the outermost regions. thirdly, new derogations for the french outermost regions concerning milk production have been introduced. this extension offers new opportunities, particularly for the french outermost regions of the caribbean, and i welcome this. fourthly, special measures have been provided for mayotte, which is expected to become a new outermost region in 2014. this is an important point to ensure that the "rupeization" of mayotte takes place in the best possible conditions. finally - and this is a crucial step forward - we have proposed to increase the budget for posei and we have provided for compensation for overseas banana producers of up to eur 30 million. it is necessary to compensate for the losses suffered by overseas banana producers as a result of the conclusion of the geneva agreements and the free trade agreements concluded with many latin american countries. so i am very satisfied in that respect. we shall be voting on mr adrover's report tomorrow and that vote will undoubtedly express the solidarity which exists at european level with regard to the outermost regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the reforms of the programmes of specific options for remoteness and insularity, better known as posei, have always been key moments in the relationship between the european union and the outermost regions. i would like to speak to you today as an ecologist from an outermost region - guadeloupe - to welcome the compromise reached in the trilogue. for the first time, this is a revised text that incorporates real greening measures. however, there is a step to be taken. this step consists in reorienting the agricultural policy of these island territories so that they can achieve food sovereignty. this is the direction we must take, inter alia, by capping the aid granted, in particular, to the banana sector and shifting it to productive sectors geared to the immediate satisfaction of food needs. the negotiations have now made it possible to rethink the most effective way of reducing the cost of insularity. finally, i welcome the effort made to leave more room for manoeuvre to the competent regional authorities, a decentralised management which allows the overseas partners to ensure their legitimacy in applying the appropriate measures to the needs of their territories.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr gabriel mato adrover for his work and say that i strongly support his report on the revision and alignment of the posei regulations with the lisbon treaty. i welcome the 20% increase in the ceilings on specific supply measures, which help to reduce the cost of foodstuffs sent to the outermost regions. i also welcome the increase in the resources allocated to measures to promote the development of local agricultural products, particularly, as has been said, in the banana sector, which has been hit hard by the latest concessions made by the european union in international trade agreements, which have severely reduced the protection of european production. the funds obtained will help to support the technical, environmental, social and food security objectives of the sustainable development plan for these outermost regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to commend the work of all the members who have contributed to the drafting of this text, which shows many advances in the support of agriculture in the outermost regions. the defence of a sustainable and innovative model has been at the heart of our action on this text. i would like to stress in particular the provisions relating to the specific supply arrangements which finance imports for local production. they will now have to target consumers more closely as the final beneficiaries of this aid. this amendment, which i supported, is europe's contribution to the fight against the high cost of living in the overseas departments. once this text has been adopted, the member states will have a responsibility to ensure the development of diversification channels in the outermost regions not covered by the text. meeting local food needs must become a priority of a sustainable and supportive agricultural policy. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i agree with what you said. i believe that the transport problem is a fundamental problem which must be solved. i have tried to see what solutions the european union could provide so that this transport problem could be alleviated in some way. the reason why our products are reaching the outermost regions and especially your islands at very high prices is the cost of transport. we should be able to look at this together. i will therefore propose meetings with all the outermost regions and the aegean islands to see to what extent we can find a solution together that is compatible with the principles of the european union.
in writing. thank you, mr president, commissioner, and colleagues. as you mentioned, 98% of european enterprises are smes, which account for 4 out of 5 jobs. they have a very difficult time getting funding, and the crisis has only made things worse. we have saved the banks from bankruptcy, they must now finance the real economy as a priority. i would like to stress three points. first, the leverage effect of the european budget for the development of smes must be preserved, in particular for the cosme, horizon 2020, creative europe programmes and the structural funds. secondly, there is the need for information and simplification: smes are not aware of and do not use the opportunities offered by the european funds, which are too complex. finally, the purchase of smes, of which 150,000 disappear every year as a result of difficulties in their transmission. the member states must support buyers and reduce taxes on business transfers. support for smes must become a reality. the entrepreneurs must know that europe is on their side.
in writing. the european union is undergoing a demographic transition with a rapidly ageing population. we can therefore welcome the commission's proposal that ageing represents a future prospect and not a burden on society. it is important that our society recognises the role of older people and the value of their experience and contribution to society. in addition, member states should establish effective pathways for assessing and monitoring abuse of older persons and establish accessible procedures to assist and protect older persons.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his rather difficult work. but i would also like to express my regret that the deadlines have not been shortened, as i would have wished and as the commission's proposal, moreover, requested, since the original proposal of the european commission was much more ambitious than what we have today. for the first-line medicines, it was planned that the time-limits for fixing prices would be reduced to 60 days and for reimbursement to 60 days. unfortunately, we have now returned to the figures of 1989, i.e. 90 days. the same is true of generic medicines. we wanted to reduce the deadline to 15 days, and unfortunately we have a deadline of 30 days. so, since we have not been able to win the time limit, it is important that we can support you, commissioner, as you have asked us to do, so that the member states do not see in this directive a desire to reduce their powers but simply the desire to guarantee conditions of harmonization in order to avoid unfair practices and barriers to markets, and also to ensure rapid access to innovative medicines for millions of patients. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must also avoid unnecessary red tape or duplicate work. member states should ensure that the essential elements of the european marketing authorisation, such as quality, safety, efficacy, bioequivalence, biosimilarity, are not compromised in the price and reimbursement process. such an attitude would be unacceptable and detrimental to the efforts being made in research, innovation and development and would call into question the important role of the european medicines agency. let us not forget that health should not be seen as a cost but as an investment in our people and also in our research industries. in conclusion, commissioner, you have our full support.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am reassured about the text we are going to vote on, because the commission's initial proposal was based on the profitability of laboratories at the expense of the budgetary balance of health insurance systems. the argument that new medicines should be made available to patients more quickly is not valid, and the introduction of new processing times for applications which were significantly shortened, unrealistic and accompanied by a clause of tacit acceptance of the price requested by the laboratory in the event of non-compliance with the deadlines was disproportionate. i am therefore pleased that several of my proposals have been incorporated into the text and voted on by the committee on the environment. we have been able to extend the time limits, which makes the text acceptable. the tacit acceptance clause has, however, been removed only for requests for price increases, which is regrettable. finally, it is very positive that we have succeeded in ensuring that member states can reassess the relative efficacy of a medicinal product in relation to other treatments in order to decide on its reimbursement, in introducing more flexible provisions for generics, and in allowing greater transparency in procedures. - thank you. - thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, we have a huge task ahead of us with the need to re-industrialize europe. we have lost three million jobs since 2008 - you told us that, commissioner - the steel industry has already left for india, electronics for japan and korea, the car industry has spread around the world, pharmacy is in the process of moving to the united states to escape the overly strict european regulations and nuclear power is now in china. we are therefore witnessing an industrial crisis which is also affecting sectors with a high technological content. the deindustrialisation of europe has many causes. take the steel industry, which remains a key industrial sector in europe. it is a victim of its weaknesses: too european and not global a market, a sensitivity to fluctuations in raw materials, too high costs compared with competitors and increasing environmental constraints. the world's leading manufacturer, china, and other emerging countries are rising. large family businesses have given way to multinational companies that prefer to load the best performing sites and put the least competitive ones to sleep. what can i do? we absolutely must develop global standards. we must plan for strategic investments and give ourselves the capacity to finance them, including through public support schemes. the u.s., china and korea are doing it, why can't we? this will require further adaptation of our state aid rules, so that they continue to play their role as a guarantor of fairness between member states, while allowing strong public support policies for the common strategic guidelines. i have heard you, commissioner, on the automobile industry, where we need to put all our efforts. we must help industry to export. we cannot accept that the european union is one of the most open trading areas on the planet and at the same time our companies have difficulties in accessing third country markets. so the whole trade policy must be reviewed. we must not be naive in this matter and, commissioner, i hope you will succeed in getting your council on competitiveness and industry to do so, it would be a real challenge.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, it was time, and it is time, for the commission to hear the voices of those in this parliament who have been calling for so many years for a genuine industrial policy that meets the needs of citizens and territories, rather than looking to the market as the only guide. we note this change in the discourse but we are still waiting for concrete commitments because, too often, the commission's good intentions end where the interests of the financiers begin. yes, a policy must be implemented to safeguard and develop industrial employment, otherwise the union, with the exception of germany and its subcontractors, will be nothing but an industrial desert. contrary to what is said, it is not the cost of labour that is responsible for the european industrial disaster. among the factors responsible for this disaster are the cost of finance and austerity policies. the financial markets do not finance industry, on the contrary, they bleed it: dividends, lbo, stock options, finance fees ... austerity policies reduce consumption, they grip the machine, leading to layoffs, to lower wages. the result is that the level of investment in european industry is ridiculously low and the market opportunities are limited, as in the automobile industry, where sales are down by 15%. if we really want to start rebuilding european industry, we must finally recognise that the main purpose of a company is to produce goods and services useful to our people and not to fatten up shareholders.
madam president, last wednesday the european commission published the fourth railway package, which aims to liberalise national passenger transport and to meet the challenge of efficiency and transparency in the governance of the railway system, as well as to introduce technical standards in order to enable the creation of a european railway area. ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary work is about to begin and i know that we will have many opportunities to discuss this subject. however, i would like to put this reform into perspective and express my conviction that beyond the railway europe we are calling, i believe, our wish, it is our model of society that is at stake. the commission must, ladies and gentlemen, without delay begin to work concretely to advance social europe and thus give the european project its true meaning. the reform is about interconnection, but not at the expense of the workers in the european railway sector.
madam president, tomorrow françois hollande will be here in the european parliament and he will probably be talking about the situation in mali. the french military intervention has given hope for the future of this region, after several months under the yoke of al qaeda and its satellites. however, this intervention was marred by serious abuses by the malian army against the moorish and tuareg populations, and it took several days before these acts were firmly condemned. we must demand independent investigations and strong sentencing of the perpetrators. the first military successes must be backed up by political initiatives for the tuareg population in northern mali. their participation in the ongoing operations is indeed fundamental to defeating al qaeda and its satellites. the national liberation movement of azawad is a secular movement firmly committed to the fight against terrorism. so he must be a privileged interlocutor. this will prevent the populations of northern mali who have rejected the ruling regime in bamako from being plunged into fear and forced into exile, which would spread a general risk of destabilization among all the tuareg populations of the sahel. the mali of tomorrow must be a confederation and give each people the means of political autonomy. europe, for its part, must not remain aloof from the consequences of this intervention. people are suffering, and she must help them. there are huge needs in sustainable development, and they must be met. finally, there is the urgent need to support efforts to structure democracy, with respect for human rights and the right of peoples to self-determination.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, firstly can i say that it is a real honour for me to be here. i can remember very clearly sitting in one of these seats for more than three years and i never thought that i would have the honour of addressing members as an irish minister but, more importantly, on behalf of the council during ireland’s seventh presidency of the european council, and indeed on the 40th anniversary, almost to the day now, of our membership of the european union. mrs rodust is correct. this is a significant debate and a very significant issue. this is the first time that the european parliament will be fundamentally a partner in the decision-making process around a common fisheries policy (cfp) reform. i want to assure you that, as the presidency of the council, we understand the codecision process and we understand the consequences of the lisbon treaty. we are determined to work as a council with you as an equal partner in bringing about a real, fundamental and ambitious reform of the common fisheries policy, which is in need of reform. we have, in my view, a joint objective here. in the not too distant future we want to see fishing activity in the european union, and indeed outside the european union where our fleets have a relationship, that is sustainable and conducted to maximum sustainable yield (msy) levels. we want to see an end to the discarding of fish, which is indefensible, and we want to do that in a real and pragmatic way that can bring the industry with us, as well as satisfying all others that are watching and concerned about what we have not done in the past and need to do in the future to ensure that we have a sustainable management of fish stocks that can protect fish in the sea but also can protect rural, coastal and fishing communities that rely for their living and their income on a fishing industry. we have an opportunity now in the next five months. you have a presidency of the council which wants to work with you. you have a presidency of the council which wants to bring the council to a final position on the key regulation by the end of this month so that we can then open a trialogue process with the commissioner, who also has similar objectives, so that we can reach a conclusion in the codecision process by the end of june. in my view, the window of opportunity is there for a deal to make something significant happen and to move from debate and discussion to decision and action on a new cfp. that window will not be open forever. in my view, there is a real danger that, if we do not grasp the opportunity for momentum and change now, we may lose that momentum and may not see a common fisheries policy reform agreed in the lifetime of this parliament and potentially in the lifetime of this commission. in my view, if we were to allow that to happen, our citizens would not forgive us easily, and they would be right not to, because there is no reason for us to delay significantly any longer. we have been debating these issues now for more than two years. the key rapporteurs and coordinators in this room and in the committee on fisheries understand these issues, as do the ministers in the council. we now need to find a pragmatic way forward as politicians, as policy makers and as people who have the trust of the population across the european union who expect and want a real modernisation of fishing that can allow sustainable fishing practices into the future. i want to work with parliament on that. i want to help to solve the ongoing dispute around interinstitutional issues that we need to resolve in the context of the lisbon treaty and also in the context of cfp reform. i look forward to hearing what all of you have to say and i look forward to the opportunity to respond to the debate at the end. can i finish by once again congratulating you on the extraordinary work done, particularly in committees so far. there were just under 3 000 amendments to get through. you have now distilled those down into compromise amendments, which i hope will be voted on tomorrow. i hope that by tomorrow evening we will have a clear picture as to parliament’s position on the key regulation, so that we can then follow suit in the council to do the same at the end of this month, then move on to an ambitious partnership in terms of the forthcoming trialogue, so that we can finalise a deal over the next four or five months. if we do that, i think we will have achieved something very significant for our fishing industries, and indeed for everyone who is following this debate with hope and expectation that something significant and positive is going to happen. thank you for the invitation to be here.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank the members of this parliament for the great and dedicated work you have all done on the report we are going to discuss here today. i would like to thank ms rodust and her team and also the shadow rapporteurs and their teams for bringing us here. this report is very important, and this is a very important moment in the history of our european institutions. it is the first time in european history that parliament has been able to co-decide on our fisheries policy and be fully engaged in this exercise. this is a great step forward in the whole process of democratisation of our european institutions. what do we have to do next? i think that everybody here – parliament, the council, and the commission – can understand our responsibilities. our responsibility in the coming months is to go on with this. we have to finish this very difficult exercise to come up with a new fisheries policy. we have to build a better relationship between our three institutions. i hope that we can put an end to the deadlock on long-term management plans, and the decisions about them, during the irish presidency. the commission is here to facilitate dialogue in any way we can. so what is parliament going to discuss today and what you are going to vote on tomorrow? you have the opportunity to go for a real change. what do i mean when i refer to a real change? we have to change our policy in order to stop over-fishing, because this is the best way to go forward for our fishermen, for our coastal communities, for our stocks and for our citizens. if we stop over-fishing and bring the stocks back to sustainability, then everybody will profit from it. it will benefit not only the environment, not only stocks, it will be the best for all of us – and i am not talking in terms of only the commission or only one political party here. it can be done. when i took office – i would like to say this again here – we had only five fish stocks that were managed sustainably. today we have 27; so it can be done. we can do it all together. we also have an opportunity to bring about change to create the building blocks for a more profitable fishing industry where fishermen and their families earn a decent living. we need a real change to stop discarding, because this practice is something we can no longer justify. not only is it harmful but it also not justifiable to our citizens. we cannot explain to anybody that we have to throw away an average of 23% of the fish we catch. we can also help to unlock the potential of aquaculture businesses in europe so that land-locked countries can also practise aquaculture. we also have to change the way we use our taxpayers’ money, because in this time of crisis it becomes ever more valuable. we can change the way we contribute to the prosperity of our coastal communities. so this is our real opportunity. your fisheries committee has put forward a very good deal. if we go through with this deal then by 2020 we will have increased the amount of fish in our seas by 15 million tonnes and the fish landed by our fishermen by half a million tonnes. the potential is there. we can also increase the income of our fishermen by 25% and create 38% more jobs by 2022. i hope to be able to support the deal that comes out of the fisheries committee. i would like to say once again that during the trialogues i will be open to all proposals and all ideas from this house. i hope that all the members of this parliament will grasp this opportunity and go forward. i really believe that this is not an issue between the commission, the council or certain political parties; this is an opportunity for us all.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, madam commissioner, this is a fundamental fact which we must bear in mind. if we continue at the current rate of predation, by 2050 there will not be a single fish available for commercial fishing. that is why we cannot continue as before. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reduction of catches is therefore an ecological imperative, but it is also an economic imperative. our committee has decided that this effort should be extended beyond the mdg by 2017. however, questions remain about the ability of the most vulnerable fishermen to cope with the expected stresses of this major change. i would like to see more accompanying measures and the implementation of genuine compensatory measures. i think that we should now be concerned about the decisions that the european council will take in the near future on the budget. it is regrettable that the ambition we have here in the european parliament is not being echoed by the heads of state of the member states, who are preparing to cut budgets.
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, ulrike rodust, for her work. the vote on the basic regulation is an important moment for the european parliament, which has been a co-legislator on this subject since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, as the commissioner reminded us earlier. parliament finally states its position. we, the members of the european parliament from the committee on fisheries, have a priority to preserve the resource. as i always say, no fish, no fishermen. that is why we have made multiannual plans one of the essential elements of this reform. we want the reform of the common fisheries policy to be sustainable from an environmental point of view, but also from a social and economic point of view. the aim of the improvements to the commission's text is to strike a fair balance between the preservation of the resource and the maintenance of economic activity in our coastal regions. i call on all our colleagues to support the amendment on the landing obligation proposed by the epp. this amendment is a reasonable compromise which allows the very ambitious objective of the obligation to land all catches to be maintained, but it also makes it possible to adapt this measure to make it realistic and applicable to the fisheries sector. it is also unthinkable to create a parallel market for undersized or unmarketable fish. it would be counterproductive for the resource. i ask you to support this amendment. as part of this reform, we want to maintain stocks at maximum sustainable yield so that we can provide quality fish for future generations. we must also do everything we can to maintain employment in the coastal regions. fisheries is an economic sector with a future, and we must prove this by our vote tomorrow. this reform is the founding act of a new organisation of the fisheries sector; let's not miss it! my dear colleagues, tomorrow pragmatism must prevail over dogmatism.
mr president, if we want a future for european fisheries and if we want them to contribute to our food self-sufficiency, we must avoid two mistakes. the first is to minimise the devastating impact of overfishing. to avoid too much pressure on the resource putting the recovery of stocks at risk, the text proposes the mdr, and i fully support it. why not stick to the mdg, however, and give in to the bidding with the wording "beyond the mdg"? this is an ideological choice, which is in contradiction with the scientific logic of the mdg, on the basis of which the quotas must be calculated. it is a pity that we have not been as bold with the scientific data. europe does not yet have half the data on these fish stocks. and yet, there is no timetable in the text before us. the second mistake we are forbidden to make is to jeopardize our food production capacity. like whole sections of our abandoned industry, we must protect our fishing. the compulsory landing of discards risks destroying our most fragile fisheries, in particular the multispecies fisheries and their jobs. in addition to the fact that this measure will not resurrect fish because a dead fish is still a dead fish, even if landed , there were more effective choices against discards, including the requirement of selectivity, vessel modernisation and management plans. the text has been improved by the debate and by mrs rodust: i am thinking of the abolition of transferable fishing concessions and its corollary, the market in fishing rights. but there is still work to be done, if we do not want to lament in a few years' time that the european union (inaudible) consumes 90% of its seafood.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, the european union has for many years been engaged in a policy of restoring fish stocks, on which the future of fisheries depends. it is true that the european commission's proposal has taken up this objective and, of course, we welcome it, and we should welcome it. but i am very much afraid that mrs rodust's report will lead to a dangerous imbalance. environmental considerations are good and necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. let us take the single point of the rejection: is not fishing better than a dogmatic game? the brutal, radical ban on discards is an unrealistic and above all inapplicable measure, which shows a lack of awareness of the realities of fishing. firstly, it would solve nothing; secondly, it would put a considerable number of jobs at risk. have we forgotten the crisis we are in? have we forgotten the other two pillars of the tripod of sustainable development: the social pillar and the economic pillar? by adopting amendment no 15, we will choose the path of reason and the path that truly leads to sustainability. the reduction of discards and the preservation of the resource are, it must be repeated, objectives which are shared by everyone, from the legislator to the fisherman. but let us reject ideological simplicity. the legislator cannot offer the fisherman a future by sacrificing his present. opening the door to the fisherman of tomorrow is not closing the door to him or even slamming the door in his face today.
president of the french republic. - mr president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the honour you have bestowed on me by allowing me to speak here in strasbourg before the european parliament. france respects the role and place of your assembly in all the european institutions. i am speaking to you as the representative of a nation which has linked its destiny to that of europe and which still bears a special responsibility. i am addressing you as a politician whose commitment has been guided by european conviction. i am addressing you as the head of state who has placed the reorientation of europe at the heart of his action and who has devoted the last nine months to this task. i speak to you as the president of a republic whose promise, for 200 years, has been to ensure that the next generation lives better than the last. europe is a great idea, a great adventure, an exceptional political construction. it has managed to make history without destroying nations. she has produced a model that is envied on every continent. it has brought peace, human rights and democracy, and the nobel prize has rightly been dedicated to these things. but for too long europe has been doubting itself, hesitating about its choices, sometimes running forward, sometimes stagnating. it takes too much time to make major decisions, the ones that are expected, hoped for, and it takes too little time to think about its orientations and its overall architecture. europe prides itself on being a large market but it is not able to defend it against unfair competition. it leaves its currency the euro vulnerable to irrational developments in one way or another. finally, europe is a continent where growth is too low, where mass unemployment reveals the depth of the crisis, which is not just, as has been said, a passing transition, but a profound change. and while it is true that the eurozone crisis is now largely behind us, we are far from having learned all the consequences. what threatens us today is no longer the distrust of the markets, but that of the people. who does not see, through a series of declarations, that the national interest is taking precedence over the european interest? so the question for the heads of state and government, the european commission and the european parliament, is this. it is not a question of the present, but of our own future: 'how can we regain membership, how can we revive the desire for europe? and first, how do we meet the challenge of financial stability and economic growth? " i would like to welcome the efforts made over the past few months and the progress made in these areas. europe has been able to provide itself with the means necessary to ensure budgetary seriousness. i want to pay tribute to the european parliament, which has made a major contribution to this through the six-pack and the two-pack. the states themselves ratified the budgetary treaty, and france, under my authority, took responsibility for it. but at the same time, the european council last june also decided on a growth pact in line with the european parliament's guidelines. this europe, which was considered too slow, was also able to put in place instruments of stability and solidarity, in particular the european stability mechanism. the european central bank has redefined its intervention by clearly announcing its intentions in the face of speculative targets. as a result, markets have calmed down and interest rates on some sovereign debt have been allowed to fall. we also allowed greece to stay in the eurozone when some had already, too quickly, announced its departure. finally, the principles of a banking union were defined to prevent the financial system from drifting. here again, there will be considerable stakes: bank supervision, a resolution mechanism and savers better protected by a deposit guarantee. europe has been able to make progress, but at the same time it cannot stop there, because in my view there will be no respite as long as 27 million europeans are unemployed. there will be no relief as long as one in two young people in some countries of the union is looking for a job. there will be no relief as long as millions of people are trapped in poverty. there will be no rest until we define an energy transition capable of taking us from one world to another. this is the challenge of growth and employment that we must meet. this will certainly require reducing debt and improving competitiveness. but i say to you here that this policy, however necessary it may be, must be adapted to national circumstances and applied with discernment over time, otherwise we would condemn europe to endless austerity, and i refuse to do that. france itself has made commitments. she'll hold them. at the same time, we must, collectively and constantly, adjust our objectives to the realities of the economic situation. the next step we must take is the coordination of national economic policies. it is necessary to redress imbalances. there are countries with surpluses and high competitiveness, others with deficits and work to be done. the countries in the first situation must boost their domestic demand so that the others can at some point experience a return to activity. in the same way, we must reflect on the place of our currency, the euro, in the world. it cannot fluctuate with market sentiment. a currency area must have an exchange rate policy, otherwise it is forced to use a parity which does not correspond to the real state of its economy. the aim here is not to assign an objective to the european central bank, which is independent, from outside, but to initiate the necessary reform of the international monetary system, otherwise it would be tantamount to asking countries to make efforts to improve their competitiveness, which would be annihilated by the appreciation of the euro. the time has come to launch the great project of deepening economic and monetary union. france is ready. it has two principles: integration and solidarity. integration is the definition of shared objectives, it is the harmonization of fiscal policies. integration is structural reforms to make our economies stronger, but also common policies on infrastructure and research. integration is our new financial instrument for launching innovative projects in the fields of new technologies, renewable energy, energy transition and ecology. since we are for integration, we are for solidarity because one cannot exist without the other. solidarity is not just a transfer between european nations, solidarity is a social ambition. it is to guarantee every young european a job or training at the end of his studies, by strengthening exchanges between member states. solidarity means fighting unemployment, particularly in the areas where it is most acute. this is the challenge of the globalisation adjustment fund. solidarity is about career transitions, it is about accompanying employees throughout their career, enabling them to retain their rights to retirement, unemployment insurance, social security when they change jobs and sometimes even countries. solidarity is about opening the minimum wage. solidarity is also a financial instrument, through new resources, through the financial transaction tax, through everything that can make it possible to imagine the future together. the european parliament has led the way in this respect. you have, beyond political sensitivities, launched the idea of joint borrowing. i do not dare to speak of eurobonds, but you have imagined what the very term integration and solidarity could be. the debate on the european financial framework must be seen in this light. i want to open it right in front of you. we are all aware of the difficulties involved in this negotiation. some want cuts, others - sometimes the same people - want guarantees on their checks or discounts. most countries are interested in one part of the european budget but not the other... my position is simply this: save money, yes, but not weaken the economy! (applause) i would like to thank the position of france is therefore based on four principles. the first principle is a level of spending that preserves the common policies. first, cohesion policy, which finances the necessary investments, not only for the beneficiary countries, but for the whole of europe, which benefits from it in terms of growth. the common policy is the agricultural policy, which makes it possible to strengthen an agro-food industry which is valuable to the european union, but which must also respect the environment. direct aid and rural development are therefore complementary. i do not oppose the two policies, as is convenient to do: cohesion policy versus agricultural policy. we must keep the foundation of european policies, otherwise how can we build? my second principle is that the budget, the financial framework to be proposed, must extend the growth pact adopted last june, which means increasing the funds earmarked for innovation, infrastructure and new energy sources. because where would be the coherence of having defined a growth pact in june and then making a deflation pact throughout the european financial framework? my third principle is that the budget must support the most fragile and vulnerable europeans, hence the challenge of the programme of aid to the poorest, which must not only be preserved but properly funded. (applause) i would like to thank the european social fund must be integrated into regional programmes and, finally, the question of youth employment must become a genuine european programme with a real priority for the choices we have to make. (applause) finally, the last principle i will defend in the negotiations that are now beginning is that of a more equitable and more readable resource system. in the immediate future, the increase in cheques and discounts must be stopped and, in the future, genuine own resources will be essential, otherwise the construction of europe will be called into question. (applause) this is the position of france. i am not sure that it is far from the aspirations of the european parliament. a compromise is possible, but it must be reasonable. we must therefore reason with those who want to cut the european budget beyond what is acceptable. i am saying that it would be useless to negotiate an agreement between heads of state and heads of government if it were not followed by a positive vote in this house. everyone must understand the logic of the community institutions, and therefore you, the members of parliament, and we, the heads of state and government, together with the commission, must be clear-sighted and responsible. this is the meaning of france's position in these negotiations, which must enable europe to have a framework for action for seven years and show that we are capable of deciding together, heads of state and government and european parliamentarians. it's our credibility that's at stake, not financial credibility anymore, but political credibility. beyond these budgetary choices, it is a conception of europe that is under debate. i'll give you mine. europe cannot be content with being a market, a budget, a currency, however valuable these instruments may be. nor can it be a collection of treaties, a set of rules necessary for living together. europe cannot be an aggregation of nations, each seeking in the union what is useful to it and to itself alone. (applause) i would like to thank europe, because it is its history, because it is its destiny, is above all a political will, that is to say a commitment, where everyone accepts the balance of rights and obligations, where rules are respected, where trust creates solidarity, that is to say a project whose achievements cannot be discussed endlessly and where everything is called into question at every stage. i do, however, consider it legitimate to work towards a new architecture for the union. i am in favour of a differentiated europe, as jacques delors said. it would not be a two-speed europe, which would quickly become an unequal or divided europe. it is not a europe made to measure either. no, you can't! differentiated europe is a europe in which states - not always the same ones - decide to go ahead, to undertake new projects, to provide funding, to harmonize their policies beyond the substantial base of common competences, which must remain. i'm not making this up. it is this approach that has made it possible to go beyond borders, with schengen, to create a single currency, with the euro, to institute the tax on financial transactions. this is the way to strengthened cooperation, open to all, to all who wish to join, so that one day we can all be united around these principles. in this europe the european parliament will have a major role to play because, through its control, it will ensure overall coherence. i also want to make europe more readable. i have argued for fiscal, fiscal and social integration. she's right here. she calls for a stronger political union, or she'd be hemiplegic. this means a government of the euro area, new financial instruments for action and, under certain conditions, a budget of the euro area, in line with the budget of the european union. all this is under the control of the european parliament and the national parliaments. (applause) i hope that next year's european elections will be the occasion for a great debate on the future of europe, which will determine the policies we will probably have to pursue, but above all the architecture we will have to propose, not forgetting the candidates for the key posts in our union, so that there will be a great collective deliberation in europe and that we will then emerge with a strengthened legitimacy. europe must have the institutions which will enable it to influence the destiny of the world. europe is a continent of peace and democracy which seeks nothing for itself but which brings to the rest of the world its heritage, its values and its principles. europe must therefore play its part in the fight for democracy and human dignity. that is why i have decided, on behalf of france, to intervene in mali. (applause) i would like to thank i have made this decision in the framework of international law. there was no time to lose, or, more precisely, if we had left time, it was that of terrorism, which by then would have conquered the whole of mali. i made this choice on behalf of france, because it was our responsibility. we were present in that part of the world, we could immediately provide the assistance that the malian president expected from us. i have also taken this decision on behalf of europe, on behalf of the international community. i would like to thank the european parliament for its support and understanding at this very special moment when a european country is working for an african country, not to revive the legacy of the past but, on the contrary, to bring dignity to a people who had helped my country to be liberated from slavery during the second world war. (applause) i can assure you that as mali regains its territorial integrity - and that moment is near - the political time will come, the time of dialogue, reconciliation, stability in this country and in this region of west africa, the time of development. that time must be that of african organizations. they're ready. they're already on the ground. this must also be europe's time, because we have to act, not only for peace, but we have to act for security in that part of africa, to train and equip the malian army and the misma forces, which ensure security on the territory, to avoid extortion and settlement of accounts, we have to act to enable the political transition, the restoration of democracy, the electoral process. europe is also expected there for these reasons. europe is also expected to contribute to the development of the sahel, drawing lessons from the policies that have been pursued so far and which have not prevented the collapse of the economies of these countries and, above all, the development of trafficking. i say here that the fight against drug trafficking is a vital element if we are to fight terrorism, because terrorism feeds on drug trafficking all over the world and particularly in west africa. (applause) i would like to thank we must also, in this redistribution of power maps on a world scale, leave no doubt about europe's determination to uphold these values. but we must draw the consequences here too, and have the necessary clarity to draw up a strategy, to conduct a genuine common foreign policy, to have a european defence. france is ready. it is time, once again, to put an end to the dispersion of initiatives, to gather our forces and our resources, to bring our industries together, to harmonize our positions in international bodies too, where europe must speak with one voice, to act to resolve the conflicts that offend human consciences - i am thinking of syria - to prevent nuclear proliferation - i am thinking of iran - to exert pressure on the negotiations between israelis and palestinians, because that time has also come and europe must not wait for the united states, but must be there to hasten the resumption of these discussions. (applause) i would like to thank europe must also play its part in the climate challenge. france is ready to host the climate conference in 2015, but we will not succeed alone. europe, again, must be an example in renewable energy and energy efficiency. i believe in europe because i believe that it is useful, not only to europeans, but to the whole world. the best way for europe to protect its interests is to defend its model, its values, on a world scale. we must return to the very meaning of the european project, which is a political project based on values and on the circulation of people, knowledge, ideas, works, culture and creativity. it is by constantly reminding ourselves of this ambition that we will live up to our history and, above all, to the hopes of the new generations. the europe of knowledge, the europe of universities, research and culture is what is expected. we europeans carry a culture that goes far beyond ourselves. we must not look at it as a heritage to be protected but as a movement to be promoted. that's the principle of cultural exceptionalism. it's the idea that the works of the spirit are not commodities like other commodities. it is the belief that the cultural identity of our nations is essential and that pluralism, freedom must be defended on a global scale. once again, from this platform, i am calling, after others, for a cultural dimension to be given to the construction of europe, which requires that intellectual property and copyright be guaranteed, that economic and fiscal rules be defined together so that artists are paid more than those who circulate their works, that is, the providers of access, and that we have a digital europe where technologies are at the service of a civilisation project. ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament, 17 years ago, 17 years ago, françois mitterrand asked those who listened to him to do everything possible to make europeans love europe. seventeen years later, let's face it, we're a long way from that. the risk is no longer indifference, but detachment, not to say separation. that is our responsibility. the european council is the meeting of the heads of state or government, the european commission and the european parliament. let's face it. i'm telling you right now, we're either gonna have a collective response or we're not gonna have one, but we're running out of time. we can get out of this difficult time by opening a new path. europe has been able to overcome challenges far greater than that of a crisis, but we must set a new ambition. this new ambition will not diminish the previous one. it is an illusion to think that we should abandon what we have been doing for years in order to build a new hope. rather, we should start with what we have already accomplished and work toward what remains to be accomplished. i also know that any european advance must correspond to a new stage in democracy. ladies and gentlemen, to move through this new phase, to achieve the european project, to advance democracy, it is you who will decide. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, mr president of the republic, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate you on the organisation of this debate. mr president, i should like to congratulate you on your speech, which was so clear and so strongly european. it is a pleasure to answer you in your mother tongue, which is not my own, and you will therefore forgive me for some mistakes, but it allows me to express more spontaneously my feelings and thoughts about europe and the exceptional role of your country in our common project of european construction. first of all, a big thank you to france, on my own behalf and on behalf of the european commission, a big thank you to france for all that your country has given to europe and the world, not only through its cultural and civilizational influence, but also for its concrete commitment to deepening our project. your speech today was yet another proof of that will. i would also like to thank france for its efforts, and also for your personal efforts, to ensure the integrity and stability of the economic and monetary union. as you said, it wasn't obvious. france has always stood by those who wanted deepening, coherence, integration and solidarity in our economic and monetary union. but the truth is, we're not out of the crisis yet. how can we say that the crisis is over when we have this level of recession, this intolerable level of unemployment in many of our countries? that is why we must continue our reforms at national level and also deepen our efforts at european level. as far as our national economies are concerned, i would also like to congratulate france on its efforts to clean up public accounts, on its efforts to introduce reforms to promote competitiveness, and on its efforts to reverse the unemployment curve. i would like to stress the importance of the agreement between the social partners on the labour market, which shows that it is possible to find solutions that can guarantee flexibility for companies and security for workers. however, we need to do more to deepen economic and monetary union, to strengthen economic governance. i am counting on you to help us deepen this economic and monetary union while maintaining the integrity of the internal market and the cohesion of the union as a whole. of course, the consolidation of public finances and the reforms for competitiveness, although necessary, even indispensable, are not enough to guarantee the growth which, since the beginning of your mandate, you have rightly placed at the centre of the debate in france and in europe. to ensure that growth is sustainable, we also need investment, and the most important instrument we have for investment at european level is precisely the european budget. that is why i am calling on the heads of state and government, who are meeting this week in brussels, to find a compromise that is commensurate with the ambition we have for europe, that allows us to support all the reforms for competitiveness, that allows us to support the european agenda, the europe 2020 agenda, while maintaining the focus on our solidarity concerns. economic, social and territorial cohesion is a principle enshrined in our treaties. we must give priority to the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment, if we are not to have a lost generation tomorrow. we must also strengthen the european union's capacity to act in europe and in the world, as you rightly pointed out. in conclusion, i would like to pay tribute to the courage and determination of france. by standing by the people of mali, you have given the guarantee that europe is also present, by defending our interests and our values, to show that we have a mission which, of course, goes beyond the borders of europe. mr president of the republic, thank you for bringing us today not only the willingness of france but also your personal conviction for integration and solidarity.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr martin, mr president of the republic, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you, mr president of the republic, for your statement, for your european policy, and for allowing us to hold this debate today. i am addressing you today as a fellow citizen, but also, and above all, as the president of the epp group in the european parliament, a group whose members come from 26 member states, and as such i would like to express our concern. let's get right to the point. we are concerned about the european council's proposals for the next multiannual financial framework. these proposals are going in the wrong direction. instead of investing in europe's future, we are attacking one of our best growth tools: the european budget. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the budget for the financial year. without this budget, some member states would not be able to carry out the reforms necessitated by the economic crisis. to reduce it to this is a political failure; we'd better lock the door now and tell the truth to our fellow citizens. but let us not misunderstand ourselves. we are not spoiled children. we are aware of the economic realities and we are not presenting you with a list of gifts, but we are advocating a budget which is credible, a europe which lives up to its own ambitions. but this is not the case with the document before us today. the present proposal is a political renunciation and i say to you at once, mr president, that we will reject it. the more serious problem is that for the first time in the history of the european union, the proposals which have been put before us will lead to a deficit. already for 2012, the budget has a deficit of 16 billion euros. the result of the races was that erasmus was almost sacrificed and thousands of students were penalized. what is the meaning of all this? do the heads of state want to force us into deficits? i can assure you, mr president, that we will not be part of that scheme. there are rules and we will enforce them, starting with article 310 of the treaty which requires a balanced budget. i should like to remind you that it is this same race to the deficit that has led the member states into the present economic situation. it is still incredible what the member states are proposing to us: on the one hand they are asking us to strengthen economic governance with the six-pack, the two-pack, and they are asking us to prevent the race to the deficit; on the other hand they are asking us to strengthen the economic governance with the six-pack, the two-pack, and they are asking us to prevent the race to the deficit; on the other hand they are asking us to strengthen the economic governance with the six-pack, the two-pack, and they are asking us to prevent the race to the deficit; on the other hand they are asking us to strengthen the economic governance with the six-pack, the two-pack, and they are asking us to prevent the race to the deficit; on the other hand they are asking us to strengthen the economic governance with the six-pack, the two-pack, and they are asking us to prevent the race to the deficit; on the one hand they are asking us to strengthen economic governance with the six-pack, the two-pack, and they are asking us to prevent the race to the deficit. on the other hand, they want us to get into bad habits. we are being asked to swallow a budget with 960 billion euros of commitment appropriations against only about 900 billion euros of payment appropriations. any business leader will tell you that such a divergence is suicidal. mr president, it would be too easy to hide behind david cameron; you're faced with a choice between two opposing sides, and you've made your choice clear. so choose the right option, not choose the david cameron option; he wants to tear the european union apart bit by bit. if you choose the european parliament's option for a european union that can rise to the challenge, you must make your views clear to your fellow citizens. mr president, i should like to thank you for having ratified the budgetary treaty by a majority of your votes, because that is a good sign for europe. but i'd like to ask you another question. i can't see where your 120 billion euro growth pact has gone. where are those billions, mr president? tell us what you know! we are legislators and we are of good will, but we have a responsibility to our fellow citizens. we're here to talk and negotiate, but you should know that there are some things we will not compromise. the first is flexibility. we must give the financial framework real flexibility, between budget lines and between years. that is how we will manage our budget properly in a context of austerity and budgetary balance. the second point is own resources. if, in the end, the european budget is financed directly, this will make it possible to reduce the member states' contributions even more and, above all, it will put an end to the bargaining and manipulation systems and, above all, to the system of the famous return checks. and the third point is the introduction of a review clause. the current figures are limited because of the crisis. we are aware of this and i hope, and we all hope here, that in two or three years' time we will be in a better position; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i know some people are concerned that the thursday-friday council is a failure; i'm not like that. i even know a very good way to avoid a bad deal. we work for two or three years with annual budgets, as you said, we take stock, we prepare new perspectives, as you said, we have no problem with that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the budget is 60 billion short. what are we giving up in the name of the 60 billion: erasmus, the european social fund, research programmes? we need to know the truth. where are we gonna find that 60 billion? mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us behave like statesmen and not politicians, because a statesman thinks of the next generations and of youth unemployment. we are witnessing an unprecedented rise in populism from both the right and the left. it is our responsibility to remind our fellow citizens that a europe that protects is a reality. without it we would have been hit much harder by the crisis. and all the ominous birds that predicted the end of the euro, we proved them wrong. mr president, the states can no longer do everything, europe is our chance, it is our strength, europe is our values and, in addition to the states, it protects our fellow citizens. this is no time to destroy our wall and our image.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president, françois, i hear what you are saying! (laughter) the change is now. then let's just get right to it. chica and banco! we don't tell stories to each other, even if there are many spectators. two things. you said something about european values. it is also important to note that for years europe, when it was in league with the dictatorships in the south of the mediterranean, did not defend these values. that these values, when these people rebelled, were universal values that we shared with them. (applause) it's also important to say that there's a difficult balance to strike in politics between shared values and our own interests, and that sometimes when we support saudi arabia or i don't know what other evil western force, it's in the name of our interests against our values, that we may have to, laurent, act like this. but let's face it, it's a contradiction that can be difficult to handle. secondly, when we talk about the future of europe, we must not only talk about the budget but also about a fundamental problem between the council and this parliament, namely, what is the idea or understanding of the added value of the european budget. the biggest stupidity is to say: 'since we are obliged to make savings at national level, we must make savings at european level.' the opposite is true! it is because there is a recession in the member states that we need a budget capable of reviving the economy. joseph daul is right when he says, "where did the 120 billion go?" it is not the fault of françois hollande, but of mrs merkel and mr schäuble. francois hollande is not responsible for the german budget, you have to say that too, joseph. why do i say that? because today the european citizens do not see this recovery. on the contrary, when we see the steel crisis, when we see the automobile crisis, the nation states, france and germany, think they can get by on their own. that's not true! we will not save the european automobile, we will not save the european steel industry, country by country. let us now really launch a challenge of mobility, of industrial redeployment in europe. for example, let's do the eads of the tram, let's rethink mobility in our cities. it will also be an export factor, as airbus already is. so when you say that we need clarity, we need determination and responsibility, i add that we need imagination, otherwise we go round in circles and do nothing new. if we want to build the world of tomorrow with yesterday's ideas, i say that with yesterday's ideas we have built the contradictions of today's world. so sometimes we have to leave the ideas of the past behind us to find ideas for the world of tomorrow. for example, you mentioned the cap - let's not tell stories: there is the british discount and the french discount, that's the cap. today, when you spoke of the cap, you spoke only of agri-food. no, you can't! the common agricultural policy must be at the service of all european farmers and not of a minority of the agri-food sector. that's what you say. (applause) i would like to thank when we know that 80% of the cap money is distributed to 20% of the farmers, i do not call that solidarity, when i know that both france, england and germany are opposed to capping farm expenditure. if we capped expenditure at 100 000 euros - but let us give the figures because we are told that we are completely crazy - those with more than 300 000 euros are 160 farms in france and 1 200 in europe. more than 100 000 euros means 5 000 farms in france and 10 000 farms in europe, whereas there are millions of farmers! let's cap it, redistribute it for everyone against the fat guys! the agri-food sector can defend itself. he does not need the european budget. (applause) finally, you were right about mali, but we have to go all the way now. europe has an important role to play. reconciliation is also reconciliation, difficult, with the tuaregs, and it is also reconciliation within mali. it must also be said that the problem in mali is that countries which are not quite democratic, such as algeria, for example, have not played their part in the region. instead, they are playing with fire by attacking terrorists and supporting them in some other way. we must tell the truth, go to the end of things, and do so internationally. i agree with you on this, it is not france that can do it, it is europe, but it is another story, another fairy tale, because we would need a representative for foreign affairs who is worthy of this post. it's not quite the case at the moment, but that's another problem. (applause) i would like to thank if you really want to make an energy europe, a europe of renewable energy, a europe where by 2030 france will have binding renewable energy targets, all the environmentalists in europe will say: "françois is with us and we are with him!" (applause from the group of the european people's party)
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, mr president of the republic, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to be careful to allow the minority in this chamber to express itself, which perhaps represents, and will probably represent tomorrow, if not today, the vast majority of the peoples outside this chamber. mr president, you have received the warm congratulations of mr barroso of the brussels commission. that satisfied you; that worries me. you have said one thing, and it is true: you fear the mistrust of the peoples of europe. perhaps this word is inspired by your neighbour, who voted "no" in 2005 in the last referendum consultation. the rest is a "fairy tale", as i said a moment ago. mr president, i would like to say to you solemnly, respectfully and cordially, that your dream of the fusion of european nations through integration, the dream of the post-national elites, is a dream that has vanished in the hearts of the people. it has disintegrated because it was woven into a web of lies: the schengen lie, which was supposed to bring us security by breaking down internal borders; the lie of a europe without customs protection, which was supposed to bring us prosperity, the flow of trade - the end of our industry is here, as you know, and mr montebourg laments it every day - and then the euro, which was supposed to bring us growth; the euro, which was supposed to bring us prosperity, the flow of trade - the end of our industry is here, as you know, and mr montebourg laments it every day; the euro, which was supposed to bring us growth; the euro, which was supposed to bring us prosperity, the flow of trade - the euro, which was supposed to bring us prosperity, the flow of trade - the euro, which was supposed to bring us prosperity, the flow of trade - the euro, which was supposed to bring us prosperity, the flow of trade - the euro, which was supposed to bring us prosperity, the euro, which was supposed to bring us prosperity, the euro, which was supposed to bring us prosperity. and then, the power of an oligarchy in brussels, which was finally to meet the trust of the people. today, people are moving away from each other, because everywhere there is austerity, impoverishment, stagnation and a feeling of power that is growing more distant. so we are not solving a problem, mr president, with the thinking that gave rise to it. today, what we expect from you is that you will utter a taboo word in this chamber, a taboo word in the confined environment where the bankers and the markets, the business community and the big profiteers of savage globalization meet: it is the word referendum. for peoples to be able to express their deepest aspirations, we need roots, we need borders, we need protection, we need a stable legal universe, we need not to disturb the right of filiation, we need you to protect our vital attachments. mr president, you mentioned the french president, françois mitterrand. we both belong to the generation that happily saw the berlin wall fall. be careful, mr president! don't walk too far under the maastricht wall. it could collapse on you.
on behalf of the ni group. mr president, mr president of the republic, i listened to your speeches, those of mr daul, mr verhofstadt and mr swoboda. i see that the praise of one another is still the old trick of the days when your predecessor was here. i remember that he addressed the eurosceptics, the eurocritics that we are, in announcing our demise, in a general burst of laughter in this parliament. today, it is clear that the hilarity that accompanied the fiery speeches about the bright future of this european union has given way to laughter. mr president, at a time when your minister for economic affairs has finally acknowledged that the euro is strong, perhaps too strong, he said, at a time when the single currency is above the 1.35 dollar, which is permanently affecting our exports outside the euro zone and, within the zone, our competitiveness vis-à-vis germany, while france's trade balance is in deficit, with an annual record of 70 billion euros, while our public finances are seriously over-indebted, which threatens the solvency of france, more than 1 800 billion euros of debt and 1 500 billion of interest payments already paid since 1973, while we are on the verge of a total endemic unemployment, it is high time that you realised that you have failed to follow your path of deception, that you are pursuing a path of almost money-losing, and that your only objective in the short term is to defend the european union, yes, mr cohn-bendit, and your claim to be a european union of which the european union is a political, economic and social successor, yes, mr cohn-bendit, but also a political game of the european union. this short-term financial return is achieved through wage deflation, since goldman sachs is demanding a 30% cut in wages, with the consequence, as you know, of a real social disaster. however, external devaluation would be necessary for competitiveness. according to a study by insee, a depreciation of the euro by 20% could lead to an immediate increase in real gdp of about 3%. this devaluation would not solve the fundamental problem, of course, because the problem is still the existence of a single currency, shared by so many different countries, but it would give, come on, a little breath of fresh air, a little temporary breath of fresh air. we must agree to deconstruct this single currency together before it does so by itself in the heat and panic of the market halls. i am speaking of europeans, but as a euro-realist, because the peoples you are all supposed to listen to and serve are turning away every day a little more from your crazy federalist project. they turn away because you show no sign of their protection, because you refuse to admit your mistakes and to make a radical change in your course. worse still, mr cohn-bendit, the europe of peace is becoming threatening, even hostile. yesterday in budapest, today in athens, tomorrow in london, as soon as the people show signs of resistance to your globalist dictates, the response of the european institutions is what mr cohn-bendit has just demonstrated: contempt, arrogance, threats and insults. well, well, you won't get away with caricaturing our opponents of this model for very long. in these circumstances, mr president, when will you, on behalf of france and another europe, finally decide to turn your back on this ultra-liberal and globalist economic model which has been destroying the jobs, the standard of living and the quality of life of the french and europeans for more than twenty years?
president of the french republic. - i knew that my coming here to the european parliament would be a useful moment to prepare for the deadlines that lie ahead. and i can assure you that i do not regret my presence here this morning, not to meet with french political partners whom i had not had the opportunity to meet for some months, but to hear various groups ask me to do at the european council what should be their responsibility to the heads of state and government who are close to them. but i must say that i am leaving with all the arguments i can think of to reach a compromise with a high standard. i am aware that what is on the table today cannot satisfy a majority of the european parliament. i will therefore say so to my colleagues, the heads of state and government. i have heard the european parliament, in its diversity, wanting the right level of spending and the right review of resources so that we can look to the future with confidence. i have no doubt that the president of the european commission will also report on these interventions. because sometimes, at the european council table - i will not reveal anything here - i hear a number of people say: 'we will deal with the parliamentary groups of the european parliament!' i want to believe that it won't be this time. so, what are we looking for together? as i said, firstly, we must avoid budget cuts which end up undermining growth, and i feel responsible for the plan which was adopted last june. mr joseph daul said to me: "but where did the 120 billion euros go? " well, they will have to be part of the european financial framework. some of it has already been made available to the european investment bank, whose capital has been replenished to the tune of 10 billion in project bonds, but these appropriations will necessarily be in the structural funds, for those which have not been spent, in the european financial framework, for those which are destined to be spent. in the same way, i cannot defend the principle of solidarity and the principle of growth at the same time and see that some countries continue to demand cheques and discounts, even though they tell us: 'you, france, will have an advantage if we reduce the expenditure on common policy, particularly cohesion policy, because your country's net contribution will be reduced by the same amount.' i don't accept that reasoning. i believe that france should participate fully in the european budget, receive what it can hope for, but not claim a cheque or a rebate itself, because that would mean that mrs thatcher's theses, according to which everyone would come and ask for a fair return for their contribution, would have finally prevailed. (applause) i would like to thank i would nevertheless like to seek a compromise, because it would not be responsible for me, as head of state of a large european country, to wish for failure. i need to find it, this agreement, and you're gonna help me find it. because if we think that there is a need to preserve the common policies - i will come back to the agricultural policy - and also to preserve the growth policies, we can have a figure of 960 billion euros in commitments, but i understood that there was a subtlety in distinguishing between commitments and payments, as mr verhofstadt has very well shown, suggesting that we could make promises and not keep them. but we cannot accept that there should be a deficit in the european budget every year and then it is up to the member states to fill the gap that would be found here at european level. finally, what is the financial framework and the european budget? one per cent, one per cent of european wealth, and we would be asking ourselves whether a little more would unbalance the whole of the national budgets? well, no, you won't. we can ensure that the european budget remains a budget for growth. (applause) i would like to thank it was pointed out that this is all the more necessary as we have to put our public finances in order, and therefore we have to make the sometimes difficult cuts in appropriations ourselves, which is why we need european support. since a number of references are mentioned from other times and other continents, at some point what exists at the federal level, at least here at the european level, must be able to counterbalance what we are doing at the national level. (applause) as regards the priorities mentioned by mr swoboda, he is right to say that 60 years ago we were able to invent the european coal and steel community. there is certainly still restructuring to be done in these sectors today, but there are also industries to be preserved. i believe in the european steel industry. daniel cohn-bendit was calling for us to use our imagination. from this point of view, there is still a consistency in his position to put it in power. (applause) i would like to thank but could we not make the european energy community today and for the next 50 years, where we would put in place the instruments for energy efficiency, the development of renewable energy and less dependence on fossil fuels? well, let us commit these policies, but that also means that there are appropriations that are kept within the european financial framework. true, the easiest way is to go and get future expenses to preserve a number of present or past expenses. i want to talk about agricultural policy. it is not because i will be the representative of france and, of course, simply attached to these credits. i cannot allow it to be assumed that france would not be in favour of a ceiling on agricultural aid. we are in favour of this. i am also aware that today it is animal production that should be favoured over crop production and that there is a real crisis in livestock farming in europe, given the cost of raw materials, and in particular the price of cereals. and finally, i am prepared to accept a reduction in direct aid, but also by having a second pillar, rural development, which would allow all agriculture to be supported by the european union in this way - and i said it well, with rules on respect for the environment, because i know some countries that now want to call into question the greening of agricultural policy, whereas this has been progress, both for agriculture and for the european union. i am also in favour of cohesion policies, not simply to meet the demands of the countries most concerned, but because we need to have this solidarity and we need to have investments that can draw the entire european economy. that is why i will make sure that i defend, not the european parliament, but the simple idea that if we want an agreement, it must then be adopted by the european parliament, and that it would be useless, to please this or that, to find a compromise in two days, including the night, and then wake up with the european parliament's refusal. so let's try together to defend the position that we think is the best! there is indeed a paradox, which will be noted: it is that those who are most keen to see cuts in the european budget are the countries that have the most to lose if we return to the annualization of this budget, and i ask them to think about it. because a number of cheques and discounts will fall if we go back to an annual procedure and there will also be, on a number of expenditure items, more expenditure with the annual budget than there would be with a compromise on the european financial framework. (applause) i would like to thank i also want to thank you for your support of the french intervention in mali. i don't think we could have made any other decision. failure to take a decision would have resulted - this is not a hypothesis, it is a certainty - in the fact that terrorist groups control the whole of mali and thus weigh on the countries of the whole of west africa. dany cohn-bendit has mentioned algeria. i want to say here how much algeria has suffered for years and years from terrorism, and that if there is a country here that is a victim of barbarism, it is algeria. she's been a little more than that these past few days with the hostage situation. i have not discussed what was done by the algerians, on their own territory, to strike at the terrorists who were holding 600 people hostage. we will need algeria in this part of the world. we will need algeria to fight terrorism. we will need algeria to promote a development policy. we will need algeria for political dialogue, including with the tuaregs. i can tell you one thing about mali, madam, coming back from bamako and timbuktu. the people i saw who did not come because they were told to, who cheered not the french president, but the soldiers who were in mali, these people, they were freed from slavery, oppression and barbarism. and what they were asking us to do was to stay. i told them that we will only stay if africans themselves decide to stay and, most importantly, we will stay as long as necessary because we need africans to ensure their own security. one thing is certain - and i promise you this - that if we all want to, we now have the duty, in that region, to be there, to give, not aid, not subsidies, not momentary aid, but a development orientation and support to a region of the world that is among the poorest on the planet, but a region that also contains wealth. in this respect, i would also say that if france intervened in mali in the name of the international community, in the name of europe, it was not to defend an interest. there are no mines, there are no oil resources in mali. there are no french companies i would like to protect. france has no interest in intervening in mali. what we are protecting, however, are the malians themselves, and that is the possibility of economic development. if there is a responsibility that europe must assume now, it is to consider that we must develop these regions. i will also say a word about political dialogue. i am aware, as i am often told, that the hardest part is yet to come. yes, the hardest part is to ensure stability, security. yes, the hardest part is to allow democracy to be restored. yes, the hardest thing is to ensure that the tuareg problem, which goes back a long way and has not been solved, can be solved on this occasion. but this is no longer the responsibility of france alone. it is the responsibility of the whole of europe. i know that with your support today, it will be possible to wear it. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, mr president of the republic, i have found it politically correct at this time to hit britain. in fact, you've done it many times, i'll give you that. for good or bad reasons, britain is publicly challenging the system. besides, what about those who are stealthily killing this system? but you have to face reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is this the europe you want? it is not the one you are putting in place, much to the chagrin of french workers. i am thinking particularly of germany, where agricultural and food workers earn wages of between 3 and 4 euros an hour! the generalization of these practices in sectors not covered by sectoral agreements borders on slavery, according to the german trade unions themselves, and directly threatens entire sectors of the french economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market. we are told that mrs merkel is considering introducing a minimum wage. well, at the very least, she's thinking slowly, since this subject, brought up over a year ago, has yet to be overshadowed by a beginning of goodwill on her part. and with good reason, because you cannot ignore that one of the reasons for germany's economic power is precisely this social dumping. will you have the same courage to denounce these practices and social dumping in germany as you have had to denounce, like all the others, mr cameron's reluctance to see the system as it really is? the future will tell.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the republic, you have rightly stressed the need for a europe of solidarity and you are fighting with your government against a violent division which, as a result of austerity policies, is undermining our peoples. the number of poor people is constantly increasing and there are now attempts to cut off the funds of the european fund for the most deprived, while billions are being given to the banks. do you not think that it is necessary, beyond the european council, to appeal to the peoples of europe to maintain this level of food aid? secondly, every country is now implementing fiscal and wage austerity - and this is also the case in france - supposedly in the name of competitiveness. it's a never-ending screw that grinds down labor and democratic rights. but the overvaluation of the euro, which you mentioned a moment ago, is never combated as a handicap to competitiveness, when it is destroying jobs and businesses. is it not high time to try to change the role of the european central bank and to transform the european stability mechanism into a fund for social, human and ecological development, with the activation of a new credit, instead of the flexibility of work, the reduction of wages and the destruction of our public services? finally, you have just answered a question from mr daul on the growth pact, which surprised me a little. you said you'd recycle it in the next budget. does that mean the funds announced were virtual?
for the greens/efa group mr president, if we have listened to everything that has been said here, we cannot find a compromise for the multiannual budget. i think that my colleague joseph daul's proposal is the right one, namely: let us wait until 2014, let us make two years of budget each year, and let us find out together what is in the general european interest. the budget crisis is a crisis of understanding of what the general european interest is. the european energy community, it is being sacrificed right now in this budget by connecting europe and all the renewable energy infrastructure. you can take a lot of examples where, indeed, today we are discounting everything, and we will not succeed. jacques delors said: 'we must increase the european budget by 20%'. helmut schmidt tells us: 'the european parliament must make a coup, and we must make it happen. so i, as a pacifist, say that a compromise must be found between the council and parliament. and that compromise is no compromise today. let us resume the discussion, the debates and then, in 2014, after the european elections, we can have a multiannual budget that will be democratically controlled by the new parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we are aware of the difficulties facing europe and the doubts that sometimes arise about the very idea of europe, but we also know, and i am convinced, that the only way to respond to them is to affirm, to assume the historical necessity of a more united and stronger europe, as you have done this morning. and i think we have to go in two directions if we want to get the people back on board. firstly, and this is obvious, europe lacks the capacity to decide, and this weakness is what feeds all the doubts. europe is meeting endlessly, but it is not making a decision. we want a europe which decides on a substantial budget - alain lamassoure will speak about this again - on a clean resource, on a real energy policy, on our industrial independence, on monetary issues, foreign policy or defence. deciding is the very heart of politics. mr president, you have just witnessed the intervention in mali. you have seen how crucial it was to be able to make a decision in a few hours to defend the values that we all stand for and share here. there is no crisis where europe is able to decide in good time; we want that to change. but the more europe there is, the more this europe will have to become genuinely democratic in order to be legitimate. the citizens must have access to the leaders of their union, they must know them, they must elect them directly, they must know and validate the political guidelines that europe is implementing for them, on their behalf. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to address the president of the republic here, i am not addressing francis , because it is a pleasure and an honour to do so on behalf of my group. in this troubled time when some are questioning the future of the union - that is the subject of our debate this morning - or even its raison d'être, i would like to recall what we aspire to and what europeans aspire to: more solidarity. solidarity of europeans on the international stage. you have heard, mr president, the broad agreement of this house on the intervention in mali. but because europeans cannot outsource military affairs to just certain member states, a genuine common security and defence policy must be put into practice. solidarity within the community is also important. this is the point of your approach to reorientation of europe. the community budget and, therefore, the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework are a political test of solidarity where our credibility is tested, that is to say, the adequacy of the policies adopted and the means of implementing them. this has been clearly stated by my predecessors in this debate. i would like to say on behalf of our group that we are not, but we will not practice the empty chair policy. as you said, we must take responsibility, we must have the clarity to discuss the conditions under which we can have the budget that corresponds to the policies we have adopted. when we debate the financial perspectives, we must also consider the future prospects for young people, for employment and for growth. this is the raison d'être of the community budget, an investment budget and the basis for pooling our resources, but it can no longer be reduced to national contributions alone. we need own resources, such as the financial transaction tax, to which france has made a major contribution, and which can be a cornerstone of these resources. it is now up to all of us to equip ourselves with modern tools to plan our growth, and are we incapable of organizing solidarity between the peoples of europe? the european fund for the most deprived is a subject which raises many misunderstandings among our people about its future, and which is precisely at risk of losing our credibility. the commission proposal must be heard. the legal form of our action for the most deprived will depend only on our willingness to implement this solidarity without compromising the other policies of the european social fund. at the same time we must devise a european investment plan to create new jobs and reallocate part of the structural funds to projects for young people. beyond the pact for growth and employment, this is the meaning of the guarantee for europe's youth. finally, and i will conclude, we must work together to ensure the legitimacy of all national parliaments and of the european parliament. we must become co-decision-makers in the annual review of growth, with due respect for the sovereignty of national parliaments and for the progress that our parliament can make in democracy.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the republic, in europe, france is a normal country, but it is not an ordinary state. in this period of uncertainty, europe expects two things from it. firstly, that it should be exemplary at home, that it should honour the commitments it has made, that it should play in harmony in the european concert. it has accepted the common partition of the continent, and europe is grateful to you for this, but this partition is being carried out by your government with curious dissonances. and now europe is surprised. as life expectancy increases, france today is lowering the retirement age to between 60 and 62 years. when taxation is everywhere put at the service of the race for jobs, capital, talent, france gives the impression of imposing all forms of success and even punishing those employees who dare to work more than 35 hours a week. (various movements) his partners are cutting back on administrative expenses by the hatchet. france is attacking with a nail file. his government has committed itself not to reduce by a single unit the number of its five million civil servants for the next five years. so in the second largest economy in the union, right now, production is shutting down, factories are closing, unemployment is rising, talent is leaving, and europe is worried. france is also expected to light the way for europe with its most committed partners. you did it in mali, mr president, and parliament welcomed it. this shows that france is only listened to when it proposes a vision for the whole of europe. what we have to invent today, together, is the model of european solidarity, as catherine trautmann said. fortunately for you, we now have to decide on the european budget for the rest of the decade. unfortunately, as president van rompuy himself has admitted, no one at the council table is defending europe. everyone's always talking about him. mr president, you convinced the european parliament when you called for a high budget. now you must convince the president of the french republic. because, of course, the united kingdom has a veto right, but france also has a veto right. you have rightly mentioned president mitterrand. mrs thatcher had a veto, but president mitterrand and helmut kohl felt responsible for europe. they've managed to appease the iron lady while doubling the regional funds. as regards the european priorities, you said, and we agree, that the added value of a european budget is to enable it to reach critical mass where globalisation makes it necessary: on the one hand, the major investments for the future, on the other, europe's influence in the world. you said "weighing the fate of the world". so, tremble, competitors from asia or america, tremble terrorists from all continents! the proposal put on the table would allocate eight-tenths of one billion of european gdp to research and seven-tenths to its external action. and we are told - am i wrong? - behind the scenes: "france is working hard to improve these figures to improve its accounting return". at least this budget will be fair! in your inaugural speech in paris, mr president, you said that justice, fairness, would be the first criterion of all your action. this is an opportunity to put this principle into practice, because the current system of financing the union is the most unfair. five of the richest countries pay relatively less than the ten poorest countries, all of which are new members. parliament has proposed a comprehensive reform based on new own resources and we welcome what you have said on this point. france is fighting. she remembers the principle. but until your speech this morning, it was fighting above all to limit its own contribution, and thus to add to the burden on the poor countries. on the expenditure side, the magic potion secretly concocted by the alchemists of the european council would lead to a reduction, i am saying a reduction, for the next seven years, of the cohesion funds allocated to countries such as greece, portugal, spain or hungary. never have these countries needed europe so much. they've never suffered like this before. they've never made such an effort before. and now we're gonna decide to help them less? silence, you poor people? because they don't have the political means to say no anyway? mr president, to accept a compromise drawn up on such a basis would be to pretend to make the europe of solidarity, starting with social europe, for the whole of your term of office, with mr cameron's european budget. what socialist would accept that? who of us would accept that? the ppe group will not accept it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which reforms the advantages granted to several greek islands in the aegean sea. given their remoteness, the geographical location of these islands increases costs and complicates the supply of foodstuffs. the aim here is therefore to help compensate for these disadvantages and to strengthen the cohesion of the territory.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr papastamkos. it stressed the need for a systematic approach, a thorough analysis of existing needs and a clear strategy to address the structural weaknesses of agriculture in the aegean islands. the rapporteur calls for a review of these, incorporating measures to protect the environment, increase the agricultural dimension of tourism and strengthen agricultural infrastructure in the region.
in writing. the emphasis in this report on the transport of agricultural products from the smaller aegean islands seems to me particularly important: their insularity is a strength but can also be a handicap. the eu must continue to demonstrate its commitment to supporting these regions, to ensure genuine cohesion between our territories while safeguarding their diversity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal from the european commission on specific measures in the field of agriculture for the aegean islands, as i considered that it would make it possible to bring the existing legal provisions on this subject into line with the new provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in a harmonious and streamlined manner. in addition to the traditional constraints on these islands (territorial dispersion, remoteness and isolation), the commission and parliament have recognized that the increase in herd and population pressure has led to greater basic needs. this resolution will therefore increase by 20% the share of budget appropriations allocated to greece under the special supply arrangements, without any upward revision of the overall budget allocated to this scheme.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on specific measures in the field of agriculture for the smaller aegean islands. this report provides for adjustments to the measures allocated under the common agricultural policy, which compensate for the remoteness and fragmentation of the aegean islands, as regards the production, processing and marketing of certain products and their supply of raw materials.
in writing. in the early 1990s, the european union adopted specific measures to support agriculture in the eu's outermost regions (the french overseas departments, the canary islands, the azores and madeira) to address the special situation of these regions. i voted in favour of this text, which modernises the two main instruments: the specific supply arrangements (ssa), which are a system of compensation for the additional costs caused by the insularity and remoteness of the regions concerned, and the measures in favour of local agricultural products (mfpl), which are designed to develop local agricultural production and the supply of agricultural products.
in writing. the programme of specific options for the remote and insularity of the outermost regions (posei) was created in 1991 to provide support to the french overseas departments and was extended the following year to cover the portuguese and spanish outermost regions. the proposal also aims to simplify and clarify the regulation. the report by my colleague mr adrover, which i supported, calls on the member states to improve the programming of support measures for local products wherever possible. the rapporteur also believes that it would be desirable for the european union to strengthen border controls on imports from third countries in order to avoid unfair competition with local products.
in writing. the many economic partnership agreements concluded between the acp countries and the european union reduce or even abolish customs duties on products originating in the signatory countries entering the union, creating a de facto loss of competitiveness for the eu's outermost regions. i therefore voted in favour of maintaining the specific agricultural measures for these regions and for a new allocation of 40 million to support banana producers in the french overseas departments, madeira, the azores and the canary islands. the diversity of crops in the ors is difficult, if not impossible, and therefore only financial support will enable them to remain competitive with latin american producers.
in writing. i support the adoption of this regulation, which will simplify and improve the system of aid for agriculture and production in the outermost regions, which benefits 6 (soon 7 with mayotte) french overseas departments. these territories are the basis of our wealth, our diversity and our radiance: we have a duty to protect them, taking into account the difficulties associated with their insularity or remoteness. the aid scheme allows the maintenance of activity in sectors whose viability would otherwise be threatened. the report stresses the need to ensure that our outermost territories do not suffer from unfair competition due to lower phytosanitary and veterinary standards on products imported from third countries. i support that ambition.
in writing. the outermost regions are hard hit by the economic crisis and the labour market situation is particularly alarming, with a very high unemployment rate: 23.8% in guadeloupe, 28.7% in the canary islands, 28.9% in réunion (eurostat 2009-2010), and an even more worrying youth unemployment rate of up to 60%. it is therefore crucial that the eu provides increased support to local producers. all too often, the latter are dependent on a small number of products, mainly sugar cane, rum, bananas, tomatoes, potatoes and horticulture. in addition, they are weakened by close competition from regions with less stringent social, environmental and health standards than in the european union. with posei, the european union can thus defend the diversity of its agricultural production while maintaining the economic dynamism of the regions most affected by the crisis.
in writing. this report is about the specific programme for agricultural aid to the overseas regions (posei programme). the european parliament has significantly improved the text originally proposed by the european commission. references are made to climate resilience, sustainable production methods (land rotation versus monoculture), reducing the excessive use of fertilisers, local production and short-circuits. the report also calls on the european commission to carry out impact studies in advance of any trade agreement negotiations that would have consequences for farming offshore. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. more than simply amending regulation (ec) no 247/2006 on aid to the outermost regions to clarify its interpretation, this commission proposal introduced the necessary legislative changes in the light of the problems recently identified in the implementation of the scheme. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which will make it possible, in particular, to increase by 20% the ceilings for rsa in france and portugal, to make rsa conditional on the absence of any obstacle to the development of local production or, for the french overseas departments, to re-ship products processed from raw materials from rsa without having to reimburse the advantage.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions of the union. this report provides for adjustments to the posei measures of the common agricultural policy, which compensate for the additional cost of transporting certain agricultural products to remote areas of small size, difficult terrain or climate. the measures also include aid for the development of local production.
in writing. this report proposes to compensate for the losses that banana producers in our so-called 'outermost' regions suffer as a result of the free trade agreements in favour of chiquita and other large mercenary producers in latin america. it also allows the french overseas departments to re-ship products processed using raw materials which have benefited from the specific supply arrangements without reimbursement of the advantage granted. it proposes a significant increase in the annual funding granted to the doms. that is why i support this text. i would like to point out that the 'rupeization' of new territories, such as mayotte, is not accompanied by additional allocations, as the rapporteurs have advocated. the fact that the french government has given in on this point is unacceptable. i also regret that no conditions relating to employment, farm size and environmental considerations are mentioned in the text. i abstain in order to encourage the support that this report can provide for workers in the overseas regions, but i denounce the fact that they are so little taken into account, both in the free trade agreements and in this text.
in writing. i voted for this report, as negotiated between the european parliament and endorsed by the council, because it shows progress for the ors. i welcome the fact that article 349 has been redefined, thanks to the european parliament and the work of the members of the opr, as the legal basis for posei. this was symbolic, since posei was the first programme created by the eu to respond to the specific nature of the outermost regions and the endogenous constraints on their farmers. i am glad that we have succeeded in increasing the objectives of posei from two to three. from now on, one objective will be to compensate for the additional costs of agricultural production, a second will be to maintain the competitiveness of the traditional agricultural sectors (cane, banana), and a third will be to develop and maintain in the long term the diversification sectors (all other agricultural sectors). however, while we can be pleased with the progress made in the new posei, agriculture in the ors also depends on the cap and the trade agreements signed by the european union, and what is consolidated on the one hand must not be withdrawn on the other.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the agricultural sector in the outermost regions (ors) needs to be strengthened. administrative simplification of the programme of specific options for remote and insularity (posei) is also needed to achieve greater coherence. the geographical remoteness of the outermost regions remains a handicap and makes them vulnerable to commercial competition from third countries. specific measures are essential to encourage local production in the outermost regions and to diversify production while maintaining quality. this development must be accompanied by respect for the environment and the preservation of the biodiversity of these regions. measures concerning the banana sector are also essential to strengthen their competitiveness in the face of the gradual reduction of customs duties for latin american countries. finally, there is an urgent need to consolidate veterinary and phytosanitary standards in the face of the introduction of pests into the octs during imports from third countries. the union should ensure the monitoring of the implementation of these specific measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to mobilise new european funding to overcome market failures that are hampering the growth of smes. the text proposes an action plan including a series of policies to facilitate access to finance for europe's 23 million smes and thus make a significant contribution to growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the philippe de backer report, which agrees that the economic success, excellence and cohesion of the european union will depend to a large extent on sustainable growth and job creation which rely on smes. it is therefore essential to facilitate access to finance for smes. to this end, several measures have been established, including the demand for professionalisation of the sector in the face of a lack of knowledge and the improvement of cooperation and exchange of information between smes and creditors, allowing a more regular monitoring of the financial situation of the sme.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european commission's action plan to facilitate access to finance for smes. i believe that the success of the european economy depends on the ability of small and mediumsized enterprises to realize their full growth potential. i welcome the proposed measures to increase the visibility of smes to investors and to encourage the exchange of good practice. i also support the rapporteur's recommendations, particularly with regard to reducing the administrative burden on smes.
in writing. smes account for more than 98% of our businesses and almost 7 out of 10 jobs. they alone account for almost 85% of our job creation. so it is obvious for our jobs and competitiveness: entrepreneurs must be encouraged and supported, and the question of funding them must become a priority. i welcome the fact that this text encourages the spirit of enterprise and calls for a second chance for entrepreneurs. these are the positions i have defended in the drafting of this text and i will continue to advocate them.
in writing. there are now 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union, accounting for 75% of private sector employment. as sources of innovation and growth, smes are the backbone of the union's economic activity. but paradoxically, they have more difficulty than large companies in accessing finance, especially bank loans, to develop new projects or internationalise their activities. it is essential that smes can benefit from easier borrowing and more flexible banking rules, adapted to their needs, for example through the strengthening of local banking networks. banks and other financial institutions need to improve their communication with entrepreneurs so that they are better able to know their repayment possibilities. finally, it is up to the commission to act decisively to ensure that all new regulations limit the administrative burden imposed on smes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which aims to facilitate access to finance for smes. this text is therefore a good way of supporting smes, which remain the main drivers of jobs and growth. it is only natural that banks, which benefited from public aid or the support of the european central bank during the financial crisis, should be obliged to facilitate the obtaining of loans to smes. supporting this network of smes is to support the attractiveness and economic development of our territories. by adopting this text, parliament is showing that its role is to represent the interests of our citizens and economic operators by making their voices heard in the institutions.
in writing. smes account for 98% of enterprises and 67% of employment in the european union. that is to say, the central role they play in the economic and social fabric of our countries. but what we take away from this report is that the banks are not doing, or are doing poorly, their job of financing the economy, despite the hundreds of billions invested in public funds in their perpetual bailouts. this attitude is probably not without consequences for the survival of smes. the problem with smes is that they are praised for their importance, but they die in the most complete indifference. the press is only interested in the plans for mass layoffs: petroplus, goodyear, psa, arcelor, whose workers will be here tomorrow to protest mr. mittal's amoral attitude. they are wrong to come from elsewhere: all you have to offer them is a false compassion and your blind belief in economic principles which are the very cause of their dismissal. a very recent study shows that the vast majority of factory closures in france since 2009 have been small businesses, with an average of 70 jobs lost per closed unit. the "small" waves of redundancies, which are not often mentioned, are a great social and human tragedy for those who suffer them.
in writing. smes are essential to the health of the european economy, and are a major pillar of it. they are the ones who create jobs, drive growth, support innovation and enable the development of our territories. we saw in the crisis that states with a strong network of smes were better able to withstand the crisis. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it provides tools to support european smes and facilitate their access to finance. supporting our european smes is essential if we are to achieve a lasting return to growth, a lasting reduction in unemployment and a continued focus on creativity and innovation in the eu.
in writing. i welcome the position taken by the european parliament on access to finance for smes, which must be facilitated and encouraged. the instruments and the ideas are there. there are now 23 million smes in europe, representing 99% of the total entrepreneurial fabric in the eu, and two thirds of private sector jobs. in times of crisis, entrepreneurship must be fostered, as smes are the engine of growth in europe. this is something we need to look at actively, and the european parliament's proposals seem to me to be going in the right direction: promoting access to venture capital, removing regulatory and tax barriers, allowing for a more flexible state aid policy, supporting entrepreneurs in setting up their projects... the heterogeneous practices in the member states to enable smes to access finance impose costs which are not in the collective interest of the union's member states. we are facing tough international competition, and that is why we must be able to better protect our companies and help them to expand in foreign markets.
in writing. parliament welcomed the commission's action plan, which proposed useful and practical solutions to tackle the vulnerability of smes, in particular their increasing difficulties in (re) financing themselves in the wake of the crisis. however, the amendments it has made will make it possible to emphasise that there can be no one-size-fits-all solution and that the different categories of smes have different needs. in particular, parliament recalled that venture capital was a form of financing for growth which was suitable only for a small number of smes and that other forms of financing should also be supported, such as tax incentives to mobilise the savings of european households.
in writing. the vote on this report is a reminder to all that the economic success of our continent is directly linked to that of small and medium-sized enterprises. the growth potential of smes in europe is extremely high, since they are responsible for 80% of the jobs created in europe over the last five years. among the priorities announced in the europe 2020 strategy, the single market act and the small business act, is the objective of facilitating access to finance for smes to help them grow and innovate. we have therefore asked for 20% of the horizon 2020 programme to be allocated to funding innovation in smes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on improving access to finance for smes. we want to support smes in europe, because they are responsible for 80% of the jobs created in europe over the last five years. however, smes have difficulty in obtaining private and public sector financing. the commission must therefore propose ways of facilitating access to european finance for the 23 million smes.
in writing. this text opposes the obligation on banks which have benefited from public aid to lend to smes to finance the real economy. it also called for "the proper protection of employees in the field of social security and occupational health and safety". that's all it's good for. the rest is just calls for deregulation and investor privileges, without the social or environmental counterpart proposed by the european commission. it reiterates support for the most risky investments, from venture capital to finance. the 'stimulation' of 'business angels' and 'incentives' to mobilise household savings occupy an unacceptable place in the report, and are not explicitly mentioned. this text makes the economy dependent on the goodwill of a minority that should be satisfied. i am saying that we must force him to share, like the majority, in the effort to produce wealth and to distribute it equally among all. i vote against this text, which is bound up in an ideology from another century.
in writing. "how to improve access to finance for smes?" this question must be at the heart of all our thinking. it goes without saying that smes are the largest employer in france and europe. they are also essential to maintaining economic dynamism and jobs in our regions. unfortunately, smes are the first victims of the crisis. their small size is the main reason. and it is up to us, the representatives of the european people, to turn this handicap into an asset. so i welcome this new european strategy with great hope. but now is the time to choose. european action in favour of smes must no longer be confined to national policies. the treaty of lisbon opens up new horizons for us. why don't we do something? what is the status of the industrial policy that has been promised? in an open market such as ours, the best place to meet the new challenges of smes is europe. so let's not be ashamed of our good ideas and let's put them to music today!
in writing. i abstained in the vote on this report on improving access to finance for smes. i share certain observations, such as the importance of smes in the european and national economies, their vulnerability, the responsibility of the banking sector in the difficulties of smes in accessing finance, especially with the consequences of the 'crisis', and the shortcomings of the regulation of the financial sector. i particularly agree with the demands for the protection of employees and their rights, as well as the need to define 'new, stricter regulatory criteria' for banks and 'impose objectives on the amounts and conditions of financing for smes'. however, i cannot accept that the way in which smes are financed should be left to the market. i also regret that this resolution does not refer to the social economy and that social entrepreneurship is reduced to micro-enterprises, ignoring even the minimal proposals made by the commission in this area.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam minister, commissioner, commissioner rehn, i do not wish to disturb the quiet of this early afternoon by raising a few paradoxes. i have heard, madam minister, that you have appreciated the report which was voted on by the committee on economic and monetary affairs yesterday, and i thank you for that. this report was largely the result of the deliberations of the epp, alde and ecr groups. the situation is paradoxical, since the rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs has presented to you what his report would have been if it had been voted. but this is a democracy. the votes count, and when there is no attitude of compromise, it leads to everyone returning to their original positions. that's what happened. but this is not surprising, because i warned from the first time i was in the committee on economic and monetary affairs that the report presented by mrs ferreira was totally unacceptable to us in the epp. i say this calmly because last year i was rapporteur for the european semester. and we had a very large majority, because you have to be able to compromise. and it would certainly have been more astute this year to have taken the report from last year, to have updated what had to be updated, to have inserted some ideas which were of particular interest to the current rapporteur - that is normal - but it was necessary to take this approach. the report which was adopted yesterday in the committee on economic and monetary affairs therefore represents the view of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. that's the rule in a democracy. in the light of this commission proposal, we would like to remind you that we support the european commission in its approach to asking the member states to increase the sustainability and balance of their public finances, i.e. fiscal consolidation, to pursue structural reforms to increase the competitiveness of the european union and, of course, to propose measures to promote growth. but it is not acceptable for us to say that the situation we are in today is the result of austerity policies. in reality, financial stabilisation is essential; we're not going to build growth on water lilies. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is "blue cardboard". on the second point, i think the recommendation is there. the rest, when we compromise, we discuss with the partners who are willing to compromise. as long as the ecr colleagues agreed with us on what we agreed with ourselves, there was no problem in signing amendments with them. i would like to point out, however, and my record in this parliament shows it, that whenever i have had people who wanted to compromise in front of me, we have obtained very large majorities. on all the financial regulation, on the issues for which i was responsible - the rating agencies, the aifmd - we achieved majorities with the left or with the greens, and i think we should rather ask ourselves why this exception could have occurred. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
question for the council mr president, apart from the very good relations i have with jean-paul gauzès, i wonder if he did not charge mrs ferreira for the two-pack discussions, but i let them sort out the problem between themselves. i think that mrs ferreira's position in this two-pack affair has always been to defend what was the position of the european parliament, in particular in favour of eurobonds. mr gauzès, i have the impression that you have a strange conception of democracy in this particular case. you're asking us to leave your report. now, your report was very good last year, but this is last year's report! and since then, there's been a few things that have happened. for example, françois hollande was elected president of the republic in france. for example, the austerity situation has only got worse. for example, the imf has acknowledged that the multiplier used by mr rehn to calculate the impact of austerity measures on the economies of the member states has been published and, to my knowledge, is not academically disputed. so what do you say to the failure of your political group to recognise this multiplier effect?
the answer is "blue cardboard". i didn't say i had to copy my report. i said it was a baseline of what we could agree on last year. of course, it was necessary to update it. we do not agree with the analyses made by the members of your group and, for my part, let me say that daily observation of the newspapers and reading the headlines makes it possible to doubt the relevance at all times of what the economists say. i have a degree in economics. i know the limits.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr eppink, i voted for the same text yesterday as you did, so i will not be speaking on that. i just wanted to reiterate a little point you made earlier when you said that there was a certain contradiction in wanting to save money and at the same time maintain growth. could you simply get the message across to those in your group who are in favour of budget cuts in the european union budget, because it seems to me that the council is going in exactly that direction? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, this morning the president of the french republic said that the peak of the crisis had passed, that the crisis was certainly not over, but that things were getting better. how do you reconcile this finding with your claim that the recipes used were not good?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the euro zone sinks into recession, parliament must send a strong signal to the commission and the council. this requires a broad compromise. the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, would have liked to have obtained this compromise in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, but she was unsuccessful. we had many complaints against the six-pack but today, in view of the urgency of the situation, we could all agree that the six-pack is much more appropriate to the situation than the commission's recommendations. the six-pack recommends that most countries reduce their deficits by 1.5 percentage points of gdp in the midst of a recession, whereas the six-pack recommends only a 0.5 percentage point reduction. one point of gdp less austerity can boost the recovery and prevent tens of thousands of job losses. this is simply the message that elisa ferreira wanted in her report. the six-pack, just the six-pack! ladies and gentlemen, there is still time to reconsider your positions in the plenary vote and to address this sensible and indispensable message before the spring council.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the commission for the excellent collegiality it has shown in this matter. i think it is really good that the various commissioners have been able to work together and that the internal market dimension is included, because it is a growth vector. secondly, i did not expect a colleague from the socialist group to praise the six-pack! it is a good thing that we have not yet reached an agreement, but we are still in the process of negotiating a new agreement. more seriously, there are indeed margins of flexibility in the six-pack legislation, of which i was one of the rapporteurs with elisa ferreira. we do not deny them, and i am happy for my part when the commission, as it has done in the past, intelligently appraises the texts we have adopted. however, it is one thing to have a principle and a little flexibility, it is another to insist on flexibility and possibly forget the principle. i therefore believe that if we agree on this, we are not so far apart after all. last thing, elisa, i think there's been a misunderstanding about a very simple point. that is why i want to say this in plenary. in the text we voted yesterday, as far as i know, in paragraph 32, we retained the provisions on the fight against tax evasion. personally, i care about it a lot. i had made amendments in the two-pack and so i think it is important for intellectual rigor to say that these provisions are in the text which was voted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
madam president, madam minister, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the committee on employment and social affairs calls on the european council to place policies to promote employment, social inclusion and the fight against poverty at the heart of its political guidelines for 2013. at this stage of the european semester, we must defend a genuine european social pact in order to put an end to the vicious circle of deepening the recession. we must meet the challenge of sustainable growth and employment, as the french president also stressed this morning. this social pact must be based on a long-term strategy to combat unemployment, particularly among young people. the youth guarantee mechanisms are thus the first concrete measures to combat youth unemployment, and it is essential that the member states make specific, strong and concrete commitments in this regard. we have a democracy issue. the european citizens must be able to make the european semester their own. but today, this semester is unknown, it is not understood. we must publish it and disseminate it and make it clear to the public so that they can take ownership of this very important instrument.
madam president, commissioners, madam president-in-office of the council, we are discussing two reports here. the report of the committee on employment and social affairs and the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we have reached a very good agreement in the committee on employment and social affairs, with the definition of two priority messages, in my view. the first is the urgency of an agreement on a 'youth' guarantee which, within four months, will ensure that young people do not find themselves without a learning situation, without qualifications, without training or without work. the second important agreement we have reached is that the pace of consolidation should take account of what we have seen, and what the imf is telling us about the multiplier effect of austerity measures, and adjust the timing of consolidation to take account of these observed data, which, if not taken into account, risk sinking europe as the only area in crisis at the time when the others are emerging from the crisis. we have obtained this agreement in the committee on employment and social affairs and i understand, when i observe the preparations for the european council, not in march but in june, that the actors are preparing to take up this differentiated pace. prime minister elio di rupo has already made this clear. i am told that chancellor merkel is considering how she will adjust to this deadline. so why should the european parliament be so timid as to dare to say something that it is observing, that is happening and that is going to happen, when we propose to say it today? a final word, madam president, on the fight against tax havens and the need for fiscal consolidation. i do not accept those who say to us: "there is a small paragraph and it is not worth having a recommendation". if you have recommendations and you are removing all the provisions on tax harmonization, then you are not really fighting for tax harmonization.
madam president, it is clear that the six-month period is now a major step forward in the construction of europe, since we have finally understood that in reality we cannot get out of the crisis on our own and that we must move forward unitedly. this is probably the main lesson that parliament has learnt so far from the economic and financial crisis. but behind the new tool we have, there are also national policies. we can say whatever we want, if national policies do not follow, if they do not organise themselves so that there is growth, innovation and investment for the future, all this will have been for nothing. what is this european semester? it's a willingness to work together. it is the collective realization that the old nations of europe are no longer the only ones to carry the weight of the concert and that they can only do so if they find the new vessel which is this common march towards progress and innovation, together. ladies and gentlemen, if the semester is to be a success, it is because the states will understand that they must not hide behind it, but on the contrary accompany it.
the committee on budgets - mr president, elisa ferreira, who is rapporteur, is unable to speak and has asked me to replace her, in particular to say that she regrets the paradoxical and unnatural alliance that has been made within the committee on employment and social affairs to distort the report for which she was responsible. we, socialists and democrats, regret that federalists - and there are some in this paradoxical alliance - have given in to the eurosceptic views in voting on this report. the report, if it is adopted as it was in the committee on employment and social affairs, no longer has an annex. it no longer has any recommendations, particularly those to which federalists can be attached: recommendations on economic governance, on strengthening the role of the european stability mechanism, on the democratic leap and, in particular, recommendations on the role of the european parliament in the european semester and in the annual growth review, recommendations on the fight against tax evasion. you can understand that in the list i am drawing, these are recommendations that eurosceptics do not like to see in a report of the european parliament. i would also like to address my friends in the alde group. i was recently pinned by sylvie goulard. i thought, however, that the alde group, centrist, was pragmatic and that it made alliances according to necessity. in this case, we are calling for pragmatism. yes, we have fought the six-pack but yes, we say that today it is much better adapted to the situation than the current commission recommendations. it's not even about using the flexible part of the six-pack, it's about applying the six-pack and nothing but the six-pack. we regret that the federalist declarations of faith made this morning by mr verhofstadt, who invited all federalists to assemble, were not implemented in the vote in committee. that said, there is still the vote in plenary. we shall table amendments again, which you will see will be extremely constructive. we have a little time left to find, if necessary, a new compromise and a compromise of the federalist and pro-european forces in this parliament. i invite you to study them, my friends from the alde and epp groups. it's important for the rest of the story. it is important for europe.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank mr groote for his question. the council is working on the european union position for this conference of the parties, cop 16, and will adopt a decision ahead of the conference. parliament will, of course, be informed of that decision. the presidency will make sure that at cop 16 in march in bangkok, as at previous conferences of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), the eu member states act jointly to defend the agreed position of the union and that they therefore speak with one voice. this year, cites celebrates 40 years of existence. during these years, the convention has proved itself to be an important instrument against over-exploitation of our natural resources. constant discussion and improvement of its implementation have shown many times that it is possible to have sustainable trade and also to attain the objectives of the convention if all parties apply the rules and accept necessary restrictions. as usual, the agenda for this conference covers many issues, from strategic questions to enforcement, compliance and conservation. each issue involves a different degree of complexity and, at times, may lead to controversy. the future effectiveness of cites and its role in a global, complex and regulated world will be influenced by decisions on many specific items. the decisions taken, whether on plant or animal species, will show whether cites parties are prepared to find acceptable solutions between different countries and views, between conservation needs and economic justification. we have always maintained that any amendments to the cites appendices should be based on the conservation status of the species concerned and the listing criteria developed by cites. they should, furthermore, take account of the contribution that cites controls can make to improving conservation status, minimise unnecessary administrative burdens and ensure that the parties’ resources are directed towards issues of real conservation concern. it is not by chance that several proposals touch the question of livelihoods. the eu and its member states have always tried to find a way forward in cooperation with other parties, especially those who are not in the position of having sufficient resources for the satisfactory implementation of cites. i am hopeful that other parties will share this view. however, we also go to bangkok having put a number of important proposals on the table. as at previous cops, we will again try to ensure the enhanced protection status of sharks. we have also tabled proposals on the transparency of voting and on conflicts of interest, both of which are essentially about increasing transparency. transparency should be at the heart of the development of conservation policies and practices within the convention, for a number of reasons. firstly, the use of secret ballots can cast doubts on the basis on which decisions are made within cites. indeed, it becomes impossible to demonstrate that such decisions are based on the use of the agreed scientific criteria. secondly, the proposals seek to translate within cites some of the outcomes of the rio+20 summit last year with regard to the kind of institutions we want in order to achieve sustainable development. finally, we remain convinced that undertaking specific steps to move such governance reforms forward will not only result in tangible benefits in terms of increased protection and better management practices, but will also sustain and reinforce the spirit of partnership amongst parties, in the realisation of a common objective. we are, of course, particularly encouraged by the strong and consistent support of the european parliament in this respect. the presidency, together with the commission and the member states, is determined to play an active role in ensuring that cites continues to be an effective tool, in order to attain its two main objectives: conservation and sustainable management of our natural resources. it is our intention to engage with other parties not only in promoting our proposals but also in looking for acceptable solutions that encompass the need for species conservation and, at the same time, respect for the means of subsistence of populations with fewer or insufficient resources. we are therefore prepared to conduct the upcoming deliberations in a spirit of cooperation, mutual understanding and shared interest in the protection of species threatened by trade, in order to maintain a diverse environment for our future generations.
member of the commission. − mr president, as matthias groote said, this is prime time. to begin with i would like add something which is basically connected with the debate on the european semester which you have just held. it is my dream that the environment commissioner will some day be part of the debate on the european semester, because you will certainly recall that in the treaty – i think it is chapter 3 – it says that sustainable development consists of three pillars. these are the economic, social and environmental pillars, and the european semester is definitely the story of sustainable development for europe in the future. but focusing now on cites (convention on international trade in endangered species), i would first like to thank parliament and mr groote in particular for their interest and involvement with a view to the next cites cop (conference of the parties). when the parties to the convention meet in bangkok in march, significant issues will be at stake. cites is a key international treaty for the regulation of trade in endangered species. it is widely seen as a very effective tool for the protection of biodiversity and promotion of sustainable trade. it has a direct impact on trade, due to the legally binding nature of its decisions and its robust compliance tools. the rio+20 conference also recognised its importance. the european union has been a leading force within cites in terms of tabling proposals to extend its scope and strengthening its implementation. the european union has been at the forefront of promoting a fully science-based approach within cites and is the main donor to the secretariat for the implementation of the convention. as you know, we have tabled a draft council decision containing detailed positions on all of the proposals put forward for this cop. as you have heard, discussions in the council have started, and it appears that on the vast majority of issues we will easily find common ground. we have also started outreach to third countries and will intensify these efforts in the remaining weeks leading up to the cop. i am pleased to say that this time round the european union will team up with other countries when tabling proposals for listing, in particular with latin american countries on some marine species. let me now set out what priorities the european union should pursue at this meeting. first, making sure that the convention is fully used for the protection of marine species which are threatened by international trade. marine species deserve the same level of protection as terrestrial species, and we think that cites can have a very important role to play when this is justified. this is why the european union has proposed listing one shark species (porbeagle) in appendix 2 of cites and it is co-sponsoring the proposal by brazil and latin and central american countries to list three hammerhead shark species also in appendix 2. those sharks are particularly vulnerable to overfishing. they are caught in very large numbers for international trade, notably for their fins but in some cases also for their meat. today no clear regime exists to ensure that such trade is sustainable. a cites listing is more justified than ever. the upcoming meeting is also the occasion to finally make progress on the definition of ‘introduction from the sea’, which is about the responsibility of flag states when chartering is involved. the commission has proposed a solution to this issue, taking full account of the need to fight against illegal fishing, and we are working hard with member states to find common ground for cop 16. second, making the convention more transparent. at the last cop, most decisions on controversial issues – marine listing or ivory trade, for example – were taken through secret ballots. today if temporary parties so decide, the decision is voted upon secretly. we propose to change that. in our view, requests to have a secret ballot vote need to be supported by a majority. this would put cites more in line with what one expects of an international convention on the environment in the 21st century. furthermore, we want to introduce a clear policy on conflict of interest in the scientific committees set up under the cites convention. there are currently no provisions at all on this point so we need to ensure that these committees base their deliberations on sound scientific reasoning only. finally, our third priority is implementation and enforcement. we should not look for new listings or delisting proposals unless this is justified on the basis of scientific criteria. what we do need is that the provisions of the cites convention are properly implemented. failure to comply with cites requirements does not only result in biodiversity loss but also represents a loss of income for legally operating actors and for government authorities. wildlife trafficking is more and more associated with transnational organised crime. this is especially the case of illegal trade in ivory and rhinoceros horns which is at its highest level in a decade. we believe that the cop should focus on the most effective ways and means to address these problems. enforcement needs to be made a priority in range states, transit countries and countries of final destination. if necessary we should use all measures foreseen within the cites framework to address persistent failures to take priority measures against poaching or illegal trade. to strengthen international cooperation and capacity building the commission supports interpol with almost eur 2 million to strengthen its efforts to combat wildlife crime. a further eur 2 million will be used to prolong our support to the monitoring of the illegal killing of elephants, the so-called mike programme, which is a unique mechanism which monitors and addresses elephant poaching across the african continent. there are many other important items on the agenda of the next cop. we will define our position on these on the basis of the criteria agreed by the cites parties, which rely on science and the need to convince local populations to participate in the protection of wildlife so that it can actually be successful. let me assure you that the commission will do its utmost for the european union to arrive in bangkok with a well-coordinated position also in cooperation, of course, with the presidency, in order for us to pull our full weight at this important conference. some of the issues, such as polar bears, which were also addressed in the opening remarks by mr groote, i will touch upon in my conclusions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora plays a central role in the conservation of biodiversity. cites shows that environmental requirements can be combined without compromising economic needs. in the face of the collapse of biodiversity on all continents, it is urgent to ensure that the 16th conference of the parties, to be held in bangkok in march, is up to the challenge. it is essential that the decision-making process be more transparent. we can no longer afford to let cites be held hostage to vested interests when the survival of iconic species is at stake. any change in the classification of a species between appendices must be based on several independent scientific studies. these changes cannot, under any circumstances, be the result of approximations or the result of economic or popular pressures. in times of economic crisis, the temptation to relax the rules can be strong, commissioner. we will not tolerate it! the european union must maintain its leading role in the conservation of biodiversity and, above all, train its partners in this direction. our commitment to cites is absolute and our vigilance will be unwavering.
mr president, i came to listen to the debate on the cites convention, which i fully support, because it is absolutely essential to protect endangered species. it is a laudable intention, but as a result of the speeches of certain colleagues, the debate has literally turned to the anti-hunting crusade, and i regret that. if some species are endangered - which i recognize - it is not because of hunting. a well-managed management plan in a number of countries is quite healthy and can do no harm to the species, far from it. be assured that hunters are doing everything they can to preserve the species. i'm on my way back from reno, where i attended the safari club international convention. this very large association raises, every year, 450 million dollars of private funds - private, i insist - that it reinjects in the protection of species and in the protection of habitats. only hunters can do that. so, i would like to anyway thank you for not cutting the mic ... hunters do it for the species and for ...
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion on corporate social responsibility, i would like to stress that the committee on development was almost unanimous in pointing out that voluntary good practice is not enough. in a context of intensive exploitation of the natural resources of the countries of the south, the abusive actions of european extractive companies are unfortunately numerous. i could mention, for example, perenco, a franco-british company which is exploiting oil in northern guatemala, with catastrophic health, environmental and social consequences, or areva in niger. i would like to take this opportunity to put forward three proposals. first, binding legal obligations are needed for foreign investors in developing countries. secondly - and i stress this point - transparency cannot be optional. it must be accompanied by an effective control system and the initiative for transparency in extractive enterprises must be written into trade agreements. finally, we can only speak of corporate liability if european companies and their subsidiaries are held legally liable in their home countries for breaches of their obligations. as you understand, colleagues, the matter is not there.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank our two rapporteurs, with whom we have been able to work in a consensual and effective way on a subject which, a few years ago, divided our respective political groups. today we have a consensus between the legal affairs committee and the employment committee, and even beyond that, between the socialist party and the epp group. this is proof that corporate social responsibility has become a matter of course for everyone. the implementation of csr must therefore be promoted at several levels, both european and national. at european level, parliament will support all initiatives of the european commission to promote csr in companies of all sizes. multinational companies must lead by example and act in a socially responsible manner, even in third countries where they have subsidiaries and subcontractors. smes, as job creators, need to be effectively supported in communicating their csr efforts, so that csr is no longer seen as an additional administrative burden. the european union also has a role to play in gathering and analysing measurable social criteria which will allow a framework of good practice in social standards to be drawn up. unlike environmental standards, social standards are not measurable scientifically. a social standard applied in a small or large company, in the construction or textile sector, will not have the same impact at all. secondly, at national level, member states must also promote csr through legal taxation and the creation of numerous corporate rating agencies. for several years now i have been campaigning for csr to have a social dimension equal to or greater than its environmental component. today it is certainly investors, but above all our fellow citizens, who want to be able to identify companies which are working to improve their working conditions and their environment. these virtuous enterprises deserve recognition, identification by means of a label, a label, a distinctive sign. csr is not a matter of the will or the obligation of business leaders, it is above all a matter of political will.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to return to two points which were not supported by the committee on foreign affairs in its opinion and which have only been partially introduced in the reports under discussion today, although i believe they are absolutely fundamental. first, csr can become an effective tool for monitoring the activities of enterprises and this monitoring is essential to the achievement of the commission's objectives of building a more inclusive society and initiating a transition towards a sustainable economy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the public, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take this into account in its future work. secondly, it is essential that when companies or subsidiaries they control commit violations in third countries, they can be held responsible for these violations in their home countries and not only, as the current wording suggests, for the worst violations of fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our report to the committee on employment and social affairs calls for the principle of corporate social responsibility to be applied at every stage of the production chain, both for subsidiaries and for suppliers. it also recommends that firms should provide more systematic information on their social and environmental activities. but he avoids mentioning the most important point for us, namely the urgency of making csr legally binding without a binding legislative framework. companies are not exposed to any sanctions and are randomly tracking their social and environmental responsibility. my amendments, which refer, more or less, to the progressive introduction of binding standards, mandatory measures or effective control mechanisms in the field of csr, have not been taken into account. we, the environmentalists, therefore consider this report to be too weak, as does the commission's method of communicating the 2011-2014 csr strategy. since its 2002 communication, the european commission has made fewer and fewer commitments in this area. we cannot ignore this backsliding of the commission. that is why our group will abstain on this report from the committee on employment and social affairs. finally, it is not appropriate to have two reports from two different parliamentary committees on the same subject. this creates confusion and sometimes leads to conflicting positions. in future, let us ensure that we have a consistent distribution of our reports in the european parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i should first like to welcome the proposals put forward by the european commission to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. we should know that, according to figures from the world health organization, 2% of heart attacks in european countries are attributable to a traffic noise level of more than 60 decibels. noise from rail transport, and especially from road transport, is responsible for 50,000 fatal heart attacks and 200,000 cases of cardiovascular disease in europe each year. it was therefore urgent, more than urgent, to revise the european standards on vehicle noise levels, which date back to 1996. in the committee on transport we wanted to complement the commission's proposal by putting more emphasis on the need for an integrated approach, the requirement of minimum noise for electric and hybrid vehicles, and the promotion of noise emission from vehicles at the point of sale. in my report i have made a point of defending realistic and, above all, achievable objectives. the committee on transport's opinion therefore proposes that new limit values be adopted over a longer period of time. we have therefore considered reducing the noise level by 4 decibels in eight years, i.e. 2 decibels two years after the entry into force of the regulation, and 2 decibels six years after that, a figure applied eight years later to all vehicles put on the market. this is a compromise amendment with the ppe group, which was voted overwhelmingly by this committee. this compromise amendment was taken up by our colleague, judith merkies, with a compromise amendment relating to the gue, green and alde groups. in the period of crisis in the european automobile industry, it seemed to me crucial to give manufacturers sufficient time to adapt to the many european environmental laws. the european automobile industry is undoubtedly in favour of technological developments which could reduce the noise pollution emitted by motor vehicles. nevertheless, this reduction in noise pollution must be done in a pragmatic spirit, which does not call into question the fundamental economic-industrial balance in this period of major crisis in europe. this amendment by mrs merkies is a good compromise amendment because it is more flexible than the limit value proposal which was proposed by the commission. the draft regulation should help industry to implement the developments needed to achieve ambitious and realistic targets within a reasonable timeframe. a sustainable european strategy will inevitably require the pooling of research on the fuel-efficient car, the management of conversions and fairer trade. that is what i wanted to say to you, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism.
mr president, it is clear that at this stage we must strike the right balance between values which are more respectful of the health and well-being of citizens and, nevertheless, the competitiveness of our automobile sector. there is, however, a problem with this report, namely annex iii, with the thresholds proposed by mrs merkies, which do not seem to me to correspond to a technical or scientific logic. when we talk about a silent engine, we really have to take into account the vehicle's rolling, the contact with the ground, the pavement and the condition of the tyres. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented, but i am saying that it is not possible to do so without the commission's approval. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. so we want to oppose amendment no 68, just as we obviously oppose amendment no 51, because we think it goes too far. it is really important that in this case we do our job for the electorate in this difficult time, which is to find that right balance between making progress on health and also maintaining the competitiveness of our businesses.
mr president, i have repeatedly drawn your attention to the absence of political relations between our parliament and the president of the european council. i have written to suggest that he be invited to this preparatory meeting so that we can split the legislative aspects with the council and the political aspects with the president of the european council. it is long since the president of the european council has been accountable to the european parliament under article 15 of the treaty, and i regret that because the exercise we did with the president of the french republic yesterday should have been with the president of the european council. i regret that he did not accept - but perhaps he was not invited - to come and debate on the eve of an important european council which must negotiate with our parliament on the financial perspective. i would be very grateful if you would ask the president of the european council to come and establish political relations with the european parliament. i hope that one day you will be able to attend all the european council meetings and that the president of the european council will attend our meetings in parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr martin, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, yesterday in the debate with president hollande we made it very clear what we expect from the council. what we want, first of all, is a realistic budget, which continues to be a source of investment and growth which maintains our common policies. we are in a realistic, constructive and responsible environment. we need flexibility between years and between budget lines. it is a common sense approach that should enable us to use our financial resources. we also want a review clause, which should enable us to review the financial framework in two or three years. it is very clear that we will never accept an austerity budget for seven years. to do so would be to give up and believe in an endless crisis. i cannot believe that the member states are so pessimistic. it is with the same sense of responsibility that we call for the european budget to be endowed with own resources. we had a long debate on this yesterday. we cannot continue to go from one bad negotiation to another. as political leaders, we understand and live with the economic realities. but our responsibility is also, and above all, to our fellow citizens and to our treaties. the member states are transferring more and more powers to europe. in their declarations they are very ambitious for europe and, in the same debate, these same states freeze and reduce the means by which the european union can carry out its tasks. this is the best way to destroy the european union bit by bit and our fellow citizens will not forgive us for this. this parliament is a co-legislator and responsible. we have more than the right to say "yes". we have the right to say 'yes' or 'no' to this budget. and if the proposals - and i explained this in technical detail yesterday - which we have at the moment are the ones which the council will adopt this week, i would say 'no'. no, because they are a bad choice for europeans. i can already hear those who will cry irresponsibility. i will simply say that it is irresponsible to provide for payment appropriations which are less than the commitment appropriations. i think that we have a really good reason to say no. this would lead to a budget deficit. we are not going to ask the european union to repeat the mistakes that plunged our various countries into an economic crisis. it's not about a ceiling. i really believe that we in this parliament have a duty to say 'no' to this. my group believes in the community method. europe is a political project for generations which, in addition to the states, guarantees security. we are responsible and i would like to remind you of that. i am not criticizing the heads of state and government, but rather the services around them, which treat us as irresponsible. i got proof of that yesterday. we are as responsible as the officials in the various governments. i would also like to say that the council must respect the treaty and article 310. these decisions, which are taken behind closed doors, i am sorry to say, sometimes give me the impression that they do not take into account the european added value and the common good. when i hear the negotiations that are going on, i feel like i'm in a market. my dear lucinda, you must be in a lot of pain. when i look at it, it is not a european policy or vision, it is a market where everyone comes to pick his or her own carrot and peas. we are determined. we are responsible people and we are able to discuss with you the issues of the future. we are ready to negotiate, but we are ready to negotiate for real. 890 billion of payments, that is 890 billion that is actually guaranteed by the heads of state and government. that does not correspond to 960 billion commitments. with the 16 billion that are not yet found to balance 2012, that makes 86 billion deficit over the seven years. where are we? if that is the only thing that comes out of the summit, it is non-negotiable rebates and that too we will not accept. it is common policies, it is investments, it is security. i'll tell mr cameron that it's a piece of shit. let us keep the annual budget, put everything on the table and discuss what european policy we want for the next 50 years. and for a year or two, we will be discussing together, between parliament, the council and the nation states, the policies and the funding we need. i'll take that bet and parliament will be in. as you know, states cannot do everything, but 60 years ago - and this is why i am fighting - the founding fathers fought to make europe a project of lasting peace. let us be as visionary as they are and let us not hesitate to revive this real debate in parliament. we have the power and we must exercise that power with the council. we preferred negotiation first, but not under certain conditions. i thank you for your attention and i also believe that citizens are much more realistic than many of us politicians, and i deeply believe that citizens believe that europe is protecting them, following the crisis we have just experienced.
question for the council mr callanan, i'm not here to defend the french government, as you know. i just have one question. if i remember correctly - i am looking at the commission - the united kingdom has never asked for a reduction in its agricultural policy envelope during this debate and negotiation. i never will! so don't criticize others for not asking for what you don't ask for yourself. i call the people at this table as my witnesses because i follow these negotiations very closely. why don't you ask for a reduction in your envelope? because you don't want to! you want the budget cut, the cap to stay and the cheque to stay! you are very good at the financial level, and i congratulate you, but you have never asked for a reduction in the cap budget! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, just two comments before this european council which is to set the union's finances for the next seven years. i was very interested to hear mr swoboda, for the socialists, mr daul, for the christian-democratic group, and mr verhofstadt, for the liberal group, cry out loudly for own resources for the union, that is to say, 'because we have to call things by their name', a new european tax. i was going to say one more thing because, ladies and gentlemen, you already have your own resources and, in particular, customs duties on products imported from non-european countries. but you have continually endorsed policies which have consistently lowered these tariffs, thus bringing about free trade on a world scale, which has nothing to do with the free trade which was originally intended, between european countries only, within a protected market. one last thing, though. we want to finance democracy and freedom in the southern mediterranean states. that is very commendable, but should we not start with this parliament and not want to deprive the minority groups of the rights that the majority groups have, as mr verhofstadt and mr swoboda do?
mr president, on the eve of the next european summit, the debate on the financial perspective for 2014-2020 is entering its decisive phase. in 48 hours, we will be settled on the intentions of the heads of state. parliament will have to decide whether or not to approve the multiannual financial framework which will be proposed to it. this decision will have to be weighed on the scales of europe. will this budget still be a european budget, that is to say, a budget which will make it possible, despite the economic crisis, to pursue the european union's development policies? or will it be an anti-european budget, that is to say a seven-year perspective which plans the regression of the most emblematic european policies? then it should be rejected. our group hopes that this parliament will live up to the responsibilities it has since the lisbon treaty gave it the power of codecision in budgetary matters. the absence of a multiannual financial framework will, on balance, be less serious than the adoption of an anti-european financial framework.
mr president, madam president, it cannot work like this. this is the budget, not for one year but for seven years. not for one country but for the 28 members of the union, 500 million citizens. democracy was born on the day the representatives of the people said no! when they demanded and got the financing of the budget and its use decided by them. since then, budget has meant transparency, information, public debate, democratic voting after public explanations of vote. the negotiations are being conducted between 28 people, behind closed doors. this is a much better-kept secret than the u.s. state department's, because no wikileaks site has ever had access to it. neither the national parliaments nor the european parliament are informed today of the content of the figures and the matter that will be on the table. so no one has been able to debate it before, no political party in any country has been able to give an informed opinion. in these circumstances, the agreement which may be reached in the european council will not put an end to the debate, on the contrary. he will simply allow the debate to begin. the democratic phase of the budgetary debate will then begin and the final decision, the only democratically acceptable one, will be that which is voted by the european parliament.
in writing. my first words will be to regret that the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, has not come to listen and hear the positions of the european parliament, which must, as has been repeatedly stated, be in co-decision for the european financial framework 2014-2020. on this subject, i am pleased that the idea of a review clause in 2016 is making its way. i think it is necessary to give the member states a break in the financial sphere. they have to deal with the recovery of their public finances, the contribution to the union budget and the financing of the european stability mechanism. in 2016, we will have a new european parliament, a new european commission, a new president of the european council. by 2016, the majority of the states that signed the treaty on stability, coordination and economic governance (the 'golden rule') should have ratified it. by 2016, we should have endowed the eu with its own resources. in 2016, the united kingdom may leave the european union. before 2016 and during the 2014 european elections, we will be able to bring into political debate all the subjects related to the financial framework: agriculture, cohesion funds, scientific research, etc...
in writing. the role of the community budget is crucial, especially for the eurozone countries which cannot devalue their currency. it is understandable that the uk, whose currency is appreciating or depreciating against the euro, is sceptical of our budgetary debates. the eurogroup's purpose is to deal with the specific problems of the euro area. parliament should have a parallel structure to counterbalance it. but there are other people responsible for blocking the budget debate. a consensus of opinion is being formed around the president of the council to reach a lower amount of the 2007-2013 budget. the agreement would lead the european union to a deadlock, depriving it of any budgetary policy at all, while budgetary discipline is imposed on the member states. less for cohesion and the cap, too little for competitiveness! it is the result of intergovernmental bargaining. the union needs to be endowed with sustainable own resources as a matter of urgency. all the means are at hand: the ftt, the european corporation tax, the loan. this must be the horizon of european fiscal policy in 2020. the signal sent to the council this week will be decisive, or it will not be.
madam president, i would like to speak on the basis of rule 213 of our rules of procedure. madam president, we had an extraordinary solemn sitting in the presence of the president of the tunisian republic, moncef marzouki. i would like to express my regret that on this occasion - and this is provided for in the rules of procedure - we did not play the european anthem, since the european anthem is normally played to welcome heads of state and at each formal sitting.
in writing. the report aims to adapt the rules of international trade. with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union (eu) has expanded its customs union. under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the eu must open negotiations with the wto members concerned to agree on compensation. this kind of text comes up every time there is an enlargement, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. it was required under wto rules to open negotiations with the wto members concerned to agree on a compensatory adjustment. the agreement is not a new one, but it is a new one.
in writing. this text emphasises the central role of employment in the europe 2020 strategy to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. i therefore supported this text, which is a reminder of the commitments made in 2010 and which should be fulfilled in the light of the current situation.
in writing. the employment policy guidelines adopted by the union in 2010 should be maintained. the following priorities, which are in the right direction, should drive member states' action up to 2014: increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment; developing a skilled workforce able to meet labour market needs, promoting quality jobs and lifelong education and training; improve the performance of education and training systems at all levels and increase participation in higher education; promote social inclusion and combat poverty.
in writing. in line with the europe 2020 strategy to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion, the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the adoption by the council of broad economic policy guidelines and employment guidelines. the report endorses the commission's proposal and invites the council to inform parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by parliament in 2010 or if it intends to substantially amend the text approved by parliament. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, pervenche berès, endorsing the council's decision to maintain, in the same terms, the member states' employment guidelines adopted in october 2010. for the record, these guidelines define the european employment strategy by ensuring, inter alia, the promotion of lifelong learning, social inclusion and the fight against poverty. the persistence of the economic and social crisis calls for us to continue our efforts to combat unemployment and not to concentrate solely on austerity policies and the consolidation of public finances.
in writing. for the third year in a row, ms berès and the majority of this house support the 'employment guidelines' drawn up by the commission in 2010. these are signs of the destruction of labour rights throughout europe. they make wages and employment contracts the priority adjustment variable to maintain price stability and offset fiscal austerity. they advocate the abandonment of collective bargaining in the name of a "movement in labour costs" which should be "consistent with price stability and productivity developments". they call for an increase in the retirement age and for "a reform of public expenditure on old age", particularly in the areas of pensions and health. i am voting against this report. i denounce this reactionary blindness which is at the root of the social crisis in europe.
in writing. the ep enthusiastically endorses the council's proposals on the employment policies of the member states. the council's 2010 decisions in the context of the european employment semester are already producing the pitiful results we are seeing. the 27 million unemployed in europe should be proof of this. the increase in the retirement age and the flexibility of the labour market have continually added to the precariousness of workers. it is therefore not enough to have a paragraph that encourages 'skilled labour', 'lifelong education and training' or 'social inclusion and the fight against poverty'. economic and employment policy are linked in the treaties, the latter being conditional on respect for the 'golden rule'. how can we believe that we can reduce structural unemployment without tackling the current austerity economic policy? the 1500 arcelormittal employees from belgium, france and luxembourg came to remind us of this even in front of parliament on wednesday when we met them. our group has therefore voted unanimously against this report.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of the revision of the 1989 directive on the transparency of pricing procedures for medicinal products. this text introduces new elements to facilitate effective and practical implementation of deadlines. the aim is to ensure that a realistic common framework can be respected within the union as regards the time limits for fixing the price and reimbursement of medicines, while enhancing transparency. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i support the report by mrs parvanova, who shares the view that the overall objective of the proposal is to update the existing legislative framework in order to clarify the procedural obligations of the member states and to ensure the proper functioning of the single market.
in writing. the european parliament has today delivered its opinion on the revision of the 1989 directive on the pricing of medicinal products. the text lays down the procedures to be followed for fixing the selling price and the conditions for reimbursement of medicinal products. the most controversial point was the introduction of new processing times for applications which were considerably shortened, unrealistic and accompanied by a clause of tacit acceptance of the price requested by the laboratory in case of non-compliance with the deadlines. such a measure is neither proportionate nor in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity! we were able to extend the time limits, which makes the text acceptable, but the tacit acceptance clause was only removed for requests for price increases, which is regrettable, even if the main thing is that the authorities have the necessary time.
in writing. while the european union has a uniform market in terms of the free movement of workers, goods and capital, there are still huge differences between member states in terms of the functioning of health and reimbursement systems, policies that are the responsibility of the member states. for example, some drugs are now reimbursed after 700 days in some states. without encroaching on the exclusive competence of the member states to set prices and reimburse medicines, it is necessary to provide for minimum rules to encourage the production of medicines, the entry of generic medicines onto the market and the research and development of new medicines in order to make medical treatment affordable for all european citizens.
in writing. a perfect example of social europe! while it is absolutely not within its competence, the european union will be able to limit and control the ability of states to decide on the prices of medicines and all the social and health policy that goes with it. with a big beneficiary: the pharmaceutical industry. and the big losers are the patients and the social security systems! several member states expressed concern about this abuse of power and the clear violation of the principle of subsidiarity by this text. it is a pity that not all national parliaments have played their role as guardians of this principle. it is also a pity that the majority of this parliament has decided to reject the legal basis which recognises the responsibility of the states for the management of health services and the resources allocated to them, in favour of the one which favours the free movement of goods. it's a symbol of something.
in writing. i am very interested in public health, which is generally one of the major concerns of european citizens. the mediator and the third generation pill scandals, more recently, have increased public distrust of government authorities and regulatory agencies, which are seen as ineffective in risk prevention and unresponsive in decision-making. the member states and the european commission must be more vigilant in ensuring a high level of public health, but they must also encourage all measures and initiatives which enable pharmaceutical research to produce innovative medicines. transparency in the measures governing the pricing of medicines is also a necessary measure, as it avoids unfair practices and facilitates rapid access for patients to these innovative medicines. all efforts by the member states to shorten the time limit for admission to reimbursement and for fixing prices should therefore be encouraged.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which i thought was a good compromise between the commission's original proposal and the member states' competence to set prices and reimburse medicines. the commission's intention was to introduce minimum procedural requirements in this area, in particular to facilitate access to affordable treatments for all patients in the european union. the commission proposed, for example, that time limits be introduced for fixing the price and reimbursement of medicines. the amendments adopted by parliament have extended and simplified these new deadlines, which will now be 30 days for generic medicines and 90 days for other medicines.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft directive to increase the transparency of measures governing the pricing of medicinal products for human use. the time limit for a member state to decide on the price and reimbursement of generic medicines has been reduced to 60 days in order to improve the availability of these products. the proposal for a directive should guarantee minimum conditions of transparency throughout the european union.
in writing. according to the european commission, generic medicines are on average 40% cheaper than original brand products. companies are using various means to extend the period during which they can market their products exclusively, without competition from generics, to the detriment of patients and national social security systems. action is needed to remedy this situation and i support this legislative resolution which sets a 60-day deadline for the pricing and reimbursement of generic medicines, with a view to speeding up the availability of these products. in addition, the competent authorities in the member states will have to make public the names and declarations of interest of all their experts and members, in order to ensure the transparency and integrity of their decision-making process, and will have to publish, at least once a year, a list of medicines covered by their public health insurance system together with their price. these provisions seem to me to be real progress and i hope that the negotiations which are about to begin with the council will be concluded as soon as possible in order to allow a rapid adoption of the text.
in writing. this report deals with the marketing authorisation of a medicinal product before it is marketed. the rules in place are intended to ensure that the quality, safety and efficacy of medicines are properly assessed before they are given to patients. the evaluation is mainly the responsibility of the member states, but certain basic conditions of transparency must be met at european level, in particular the measures concerning the fixing of prices and reimbursement of medicines, the time limit for which is shortened here. but under the guise of transparency, the report gives even more power to the pharmaceutical industry, leaving them free to market their products at whatever price they want when the authorities do not take any decisions within the considerably shortened time limits. the objective of rapidly making new treatments available cannot be achieved at the expense of the sick or the already fragile budgetary balance of public health insurance systems. i therefore opposed this text, as did all the members of my group.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has once again proved to us, through the commission's proposals for reform of the common fisheries policy, that it is aware of the importance of restoring the fish stocks on which the future of our fishermen depends. what's important is that this consciousness is shared. i think it would be absurd to oppose those who would have been for the reconstitution and others who would have been against it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. it is important to remember that the pillar of sustainable development has three pillars. the environmental pillar, of course, but also the economic pillar and the social pillar. the latter two are the forgotten ones of history. that is why i voted in favour of amendment no 15, which would have allowed a margin of tolerance to be set in the area of the ban on dumping. the total ban on discards is an unrealistic measure and, above all, it seems to me to be unworkable, which shows a lack of awareness of the realities of the fishing sector. it will put a considerable number of fishing businesses and jobs at risk at a time when unemployment in the european union is already at historically high levels. the objectives are the same for everyone, from the legislator to the fisherman, which is why the legislator cannot offer a sustainable future to the fisherman if it is opposed to his present.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which reforms one of the major policies of the european union. the text, which was supported by a large majority in parliament, updates the european fisheries framework for the coming years. for the first time, environmental issues are fully taken into account, and i am pleased about that. particular attention has been paid to the sustainability of the resource by ensuring that stocks can be renewed. however, i would have liked to see some adjustments to this report to facilitate the implementation of these rules.
in writing. both for the preservation of stocks and for the safeguarding of jobs in the medium and long term, the reform of the cfp was highly anticipated. the good philosophy that is now emerging from this common policy clearly shows a path towards a more sustainable fisheries in europe. that's great news. the criteria for the annual renewal of stocks are designed to ensure the survival of the fisheries. traditional fishing techniques are recognised and will be preserved. conserving fish stocks and ending discards - more than a quarter of catches are wasted each year - are crucial for the future of small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing. for france, which is, as we will recall, europe's leading maritime interface, these are considerable steps forward, and should be welcomed as such. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common fisheries policy' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. the report by ulrike rodust sets out a total ban on discards. i have refused to vote on this report because after consulting the fisheries sector it is clear that it is difficult to put such a rule in place. it would be more sensible to provide for a more flexible timetable for different species. even if a total ban is a long-term goal, it is not achievable in the short term for the professionals.
in writing. i voted against the report on the reform of the cfp to express my support for french fishermen. the epp wanted to play an active part in the reform, in particular by voting in favour of amendment no 297, which respects the principle of the landing obligation by arranging it in such a way as to enable the fisheries sector to adapt to this measure. unfortunately, this amendment was not adopted. the reform of the cfp has important social consequences for fishermen. it therefore deserves special attention to support this already highly fragile sector.
in writing. i voted against the rodust report on the common fisheries policy. after three years of work in the parliamentary committee, there is one essential point which i cannot accept in this reform. this is the strict obligation to land all catches with a time limit that is too tight and not applicable today. this is a dogmatic measure, which is why i tabled a compromise amendment which proposed that the landing obligation be made more flexible and realistic. unfortunately, it was rejected, which motivated my opposition. i am, however, pleased that the european commission has proposed the abolition of transferable fishing concessions. as the author of the amendment to abolish these monetised fishing rights, i am pleased that my colleagues in parliament followed my proposal, which was the only reasonable one. the abandonment of transferable fishing concessions remains a significant victory, as it avoids the disappearance of our european fishing model.
in writing. while 65% of european seafood consumption is imported, the eu has a responsibility to do everything possible to prevent the offshoring of our food production capacity. the compulsory landing of all discards risks destroying our fishing enterprises and the most fragile jobs, particularly in the multispecies fisheries. this text should have respected the balance between the necessary renewal of the resource and the sustainability of european fisheries activities which contribute to our food self-sufficiency.
in writing. today, europe's fish stocks, particularly in the atlantic and the mediterranean, are threatened by overfishing. with over 350 000 europeans living off the fisheries and processing industries, a lasting reform of the common policy is needed if we are to preserve this important sector of the european union's economy in the medium and long term. under the new common fisheries policy, the annual renewal criteria will help maintain fish stocks. traditional fishing techniques will also be recognised and preserved. conservation of fish stocks and an end to discards - more than a quarter of catches are wasted each year - are also key elements in the continuation of small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing. this new common fisheries policy is a major step forward for france, which is europe's leading maritime interface.
in writing. with this report on the reform of the common fisheries policy, parliament is attempting, by means of amendments, to counteract a commission in brussels which is deaf to demands and which is holding to very restrictive positions which are endangering the future of our fishermen. the commission is trying to impose on a profession already weakened by foreign imports the fisheries policies dictated by an ideological and technocratic vision that opens the door to social, environmental and health dumping. the principle of maximum sustainable yield will further reduce the number of fishermen in the fishing industry, which will further destabilise coastal regions. the infantilization of a noble profession which contributes to european food security by offering quality products is outrageous. if some of the amendments are in the right direction, we cannot put french fishermen and their work at risk.
in writing. as we know, overfishing destroys the marine environment and poses a serious threat to the populations that depend on fishing. financing increasingly efficient boats with incentives to fish more and more, short-term interest, centralised management, waste of almost a quarter of the total european catch. after 30 years of failed implementation of a european fisheries policy, the situation is grim. today, for the first time, the european parliament has had the opportunity to express its views and to play its role as a co-legislator in this fisheries area. to prevent our oceans from becoming deserts by 2050, a positive vote by the european parliament was essential. the aim is to exploit fisheries resources in the spirit of 'maximum sustainable yield', to avoid bycatch, to give aid to sustainable practices and to bring fisheries management closer to the ground. today's vote is a step towards a virtuous cfp, in its economic, social and environmental dimensions, which benefits everyone.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the main principles of a new common fisheries policy which succeeds in reconciling the preservation of stocks and the safeguarding of jobs in the medium and long term. this text paves the way towards a more sustainable fisheries in europe focusing on traditional, small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing techniques. the conservation of fisheries resources and the end of discards - over a quarter of catches are wasted every year - are key elements of this report and should be welcomed.
in writing. i voted against this report because it endangers the survival of european fisheries. we must support sustainable fishing to preserve our fisheries resources. however, the reform of fisheries must be done in a fair way, without prejudicing fishermen who are already in a difficult situation. the immediate requirement to land all fish caught, even those unfit for human consumption, is a dangerous measure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not displaced. the rejection of this amendment, which respected the principle of the principle of the fishermen's right to adapt, threatens the survival of european fisheries. this amendment was a realistic compromise which would have allowed this obligation to be implemented within a reasonable time. this regulation needs to be revised in order to strike the right balance between preserving fisheries resources and taking account of european fishermen, in particular small-scale fisheries. the latter would not survive an unrealistic policy. the actions undertaken by the profession over the years to promote sustainable fishing are a remarkable step forward and demonstrate its commitment to exploiting resources in a sustainable way.
in writing. i voted against the report by ulrike rodust on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). while the cfp needs to be reformed to make it more sustainable, the final position of the text seems to me problematic. i considered that we must succeed in reconciling the restoration of fisheries resources by 2020 with the maintenance of good conditions for fishing activities. the need to respect fishing quotas in the context of maximum sustainable yield (msy) is undeniable. however, the timing of implementation is problematic. moreover, as regards the practice of discarding at sea, the obligation to land all catches will not make it possible to combat this waste. we prefer other alternative solutions such as selectivity and management plans. with my french socialist colleagues, we hope that the further negotiations will lead to a more balanced legislation.
in writing. the reform of the common fisheries policy was urgent and the european commission's proposal was highly anticipated. while it is essential to combat overfishing and to restore the fish stocks on which the future of our fisheries depends, the report presented contained, in my view, a dangerous imbalance between environmental and socio-economic considerations. the total ban on discards is an unrealistic and, above all, unenforceable measure which will endanger a considerable number of fisheries and the jobs they create, at a time when unemployment in the european union is already at historically high levels. the amendment tabled by alain cadec, which would have allowed a margin of tolerance to be set in the area of the ban on discharges, was not adopted, so i voted against it.
in writing. by significantly increasing the environmental constraints on fisheries and implementing them within such tight deadlines, the rodust report simply proposes the death knell for the sector. under the guise of good intentions, such as zero waste, and under pressure from the environmental lobbies, the european parliament has given in to demagogy and shown its total ignorance of the realities of this profession and the constraints it already faces. fisheries professionals presented alternative solutions that were environmentally friendly and ensured the future of their sector, but they were not heard. the small-scale fisheries will of course be the first to suffer. it is our food security, the maintenance of jobs and the economies of our coastal areas that are at stake. this report, which purports to advocate a balance between the sustainability of fisheries resources and the economic and social sustainability of the fisheries sector, is in fact a radical and ideological reform. this is proof, if there is any, that europe does not like fishermen. i voted against mrs rodust's report.
in writing. this report removes the obligation to privatise fishing rights, the worst is avoided. it confirms the implementation of the maximum sustainable yield and its postponement to 2020. it establishes a multiannual fisheries management system which is coordinated by all the players in the sector and which is in line with the best scientific advice, a provision which will make it easier for fisheries undertakings to read the text. it takes account of the social and economic viability of fisheries activities and endorses the introduction of sustainable aquaculture and shellfish farming in the cfp. that is why i support this report. i would point out, however, that while the so-called zero-emission measure is intended to increase the selectivity of fishing gear, it should not condemn the sector. its application will have to be conducted by fisheries, on a case-by-case basis, after feasibility and socioeconomic impact studies. fleet modernisation planning is needed to enable selective, sustainable and safer fishing for seafarers. this report does not provide for any such provision. i am voting for the many advances in this text, but i am denouncing this serious shortcoming.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the common fisheries policy. this report takes similar directions to those which emerged from my report for an opinion on the cfp in the committee on regional development. i am also pleased that my proposal for the creation of an advisory committee on the outermost regions was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament's plenary. as regards the overall challenges of the cfp reform, we must bear in mind that the disappearance of fish will bring with it the disappearance of fishermen. if we continue at the current rate of predation, there will be no fish available for commercial fishing by 2050. there is an urgent need to limit overfishing and ensure the recovery of fish stocks. this is a major issue for the protection of biodiversity and the sustainability of the fisheries sector, which parliament has taken fully into account. i regret, however, that no compensatory measures have been provided for fishermen, especially the most vulnerable. the report is a real breakthrough in environmental matters.
in writing. i voted against the proposal for a regulation on the common fisheries policy, because despite the progress made in committee, this text did not strike the right balance between the need to renew resources and the sustainability of european fisheries, which is part of our food self-sufficiency. i particularly regret that the maximum sustainable yield (msy), a tool that allows scientifically to measure what can be fished without jeopardising the renewal of the resource, has been over-emphasised, leading to the aim of 'beyond' msy by 2020, a vague and arbitrary notion. i also regret that no concrete proposals have been made to improve the scientific knowledge of stocks. finally, i regret that parliament has approved the compulsory landing of all waste, a job-destroying measure which will legalise the marketing of waste processed into animal flour. there were better ways of eliminating waste and keeping it alive, through increased selectivity of gear, modernisation of ships and their technologies, management plans. i will remain committed to ensuring that the discussions in the trilogue continue to make positive progress on this reform.
in writing. the vote on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) improves the commission's proposal by linking the allocation of fishing rights to environmentally and socially responsible management. the proposal for transferable fishing quotas was rejected and discards of fish not corresponding to the species sought are strictly controlled. the amendments adopted take account of small-scale fishing and call for it to be distinguished from industrial fishing. but i would have liked parliament to go further and adopt the gue/ngl amendments on taking better account of the socioeconomic aspects of the conservation of fisheries resources, in particular through compensation for fisheries and local economies. i also regret that french rups are not treated like other european rups. this vote by the european parliament is a clear signal that the current cfp is a disaster and that the reform proposed by the european commission is not enough to put an end to overfishing, which at the current rate is a real threat to fisheries resources. the ball is in the council's court, whose delays raise fears that a real reform of the cfp will be postponed until 2020.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am of course in favour of measures which will help to protect public health and the environment by reducing the noise level of motor vehicles. we all know that noise pollution is a source of stress, anxiety and even illness, and that it is a matter of concern to many of our citizens. but do we really have a sense of priorities? we are struggling to recover from an economic and financial crisis which has left our industries either completely exhausted or severely weakened. growth in the european union is almost zero, unemployment is stagnating at a historically high level. is it really the priority, in such a context, to add new constraints, new standards to our car industries? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there is now a consensus on the priorities for the coming years, namely growth and employment. we must therefore work in line with these objectives and not, it seems to me, adopt contradictory legislation. let us try not to shoot a bullet in the foot of a european union which, at the moment, is already having so many difficulties in moving forward, so many difficulties in being legible to our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to limit the noise of motor vehicles while allowing manufacturers time to adapt. the european parliament also recommended the introduction of a labelling system to inform consumers of the noise levels of new cars. noise is a public health issue that needs to be addressed.
in writing. millions of europeans suffer daily from noise pollution from motor vehicles. but technology now exists to reduce these inconveniences considerably. the time limits mentioned in this report seem to me to be reasonable and easily digestible by the automobile industry. on the contrary, a major amendment adopted today by the european parliament will make it possible to install minimum thresholds on electric vehicles to prevent accidents with people with sensitive hearing. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which has produced a good compromise.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr ouzký, which supports the commission's proposal on the fight against noise emissions from motor vehicles, particularly for the population in urban areas. i would also like to stress the importance of reducing the noise emitted from the road surface via the tyres and not just from the car itself.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because improvements can be made in terms of noise generated by vehicles. however, we must be careful that any new legislation does not worsen the economic situation of our european companies, as the automobile industry is already weakened by the crisis. i voted in favour of amendment no 66, which focuses on hybrid and electric vehicles. they are too silent and therefore a source of accidents for the visually impaired and for young children, so we want an ad hoc sound system to prevent this kind of risk.
in writing. noise is a public health issue for me. it can cause exhaustion, health problems and the development of diseases. more than half the population of the european union is exposed to noise levels above 55 db. 1.8% of heart attacks in europe are attributed to excessive noise levels, and noise from rail and road transport is responsible for 50,000 fatal heart attacks and 200,000 cases of cardiovascular disease each year in europe. it was therefore urgent to revise these standards, which were almost 20 years old: technology allows advances and progress to reduce these human tragedies. of course, we must not ignore technology and productivity: in the period of crisis in the european automobile industry, it seemed crucial to us socialists to give manufacturers sufficient time to adapt to the many environmental laws. so reducing noise levels by 4 decibels in 8 years seems to me to be the responsible balance for the health of europeans and the future of our car industry.
in writing. the position adopted by the european parliament in this vote is courageous and ambitious. by voting in favour of this text, we make a clear choice not to sell out the health of our citizens or our competitiveness. we refuse to set unrealistic environmental targets: we do not want to sacrifice our jobs when there is a middle way that does not endanger our health. the european parliament wants a realistic reduction in noise emissions, for a europe that protects its citizens, their health and their jobs.
in writing. there is now evidence that persistent exposure to high levels of traffic noise is harmful to human health, leading to both physical and mental illnesses. half of the union's urban population is exposed to road traffic noise exceeding 55 decibels, and the limit value for noise in a car set by european legislation is 74 decibels. legislation was therefore needed to further limit the noise pollution caused by motor vehicles. by also looking at the quality of road surfaces, aerodynamics and tyres, the european union is promoting a balanced approach to reduce noise production, noise pollution and to preserve the quality of life of people living in urban areas, but also in favour of the automobile market players. noise emission limits will be scaled according to vehicle types and vehicle noise labelling will provide adequate information to car buyers. finally, it should be noted that hybrid and electric vehicles will be equipped with acoustic warning systems, in order to maintain a sound level sufficient to ensure the safety of visually impaired pedestrians.
in writing. the last time the noise limits for vehicles were lowered was in 1995. so while the result may not be what everyone expects, i believe that the final result strikes an acceptable balance between public health requirements and the interests of the car manufacturers who are facing profound difficulties in europe at the moment.
in writing. on wednesday 6 february, the european parliament adopted the report on the noise level of motor vehicles. i understand the interest in lowering the maximum decibel thresholds for different categories of vehicles, because noise pollution can poison the lives of city dwellers in particular. however, the french automobile industry is in a serious crisis. its sales are continuing to fall, forcing some of its historical companies to restructure and close down sites. this alarming situation must not be aggravated by unrealistic proposals which would merely deliver the final blow to an already weakened industry. that is why i rejected the amendments calling for a lowering of the maximum decibel thresholds to a level which seems to me to be excessive in the present context. i also rejected the amendment on the test conditions for measuring the noise level of vehicles which was based on new tyres, which did not correspond to real traffic conditions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the noise level of motor vehicles. as constant exposure to high levels of traffic noise has a negative impact on health, it is important to lower the noise limits of cars. a first phase would apply to new vehicle models, and a second phase to all new vehicles entering service. vehicle noise emissions also depend on road surfaces, tyre noise and aerodynamics. the new cars should also be labelled with their sound characteristics in order to inform the consumer. finally, electric and hybrid vehicles pose a threat to pedestrians and should in future be audible with a vehicle acoustic warning system.
in writing. half of the european population living in urban areas is exposed to noise emissions from traffic above 55 decibels. constant exposure to high levels of noise can cause physical fatigue, organ dysfunction and cardiovascular disease. i supported the report by my colleague ouzký, who proposes new noise limits for vehicles (reduction from 74 to 68 decibels for standard cars). these new standards would be introduced gradually to allow industry to adapt (with a delay of 6 to 8 years). the text also provides for new cars to be labelled with their sound characteristics in order to inform consumers. electric and hybrid vehicles are too quiet, endangering pedestrians and the visually impaired. the introduction of a 'vehicle warning system' is provided for in the text, which i believe is beneficial to ensure the safety of all. although these elements seem to me to be positive, it also seems to me important to pay some attention to the road surface, the noise of the tyres and the aerodynamics of the vehicles, which have an impact on their noise emissions.
in writing. noise pollution is a public health issue. nearly 70 million europeans suffer from excessive noise exposure, severe sleep problems, anxiety and heart problems. one of the main sources of noise pollution is urban traffic, which exposes half of the european urban population to noise levels above 55 db. i therefore supported the commission's proposal for a directive to limit noise emissions from motor vehicles. i have, however, been keen, together with my political family, to correct and improve this proposal, taking account of the latest technical innovations and the overall feasibility of the objectives. it was also appropriate to create a specific category for cars produced in limited series. i believe that we have succeeded in proposing realistic objectives which will ensure both the improvement and innovation of vehicles, without imposing excessive constraints on our manufacturers, and better protection for european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to increase the co-financing rate by the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals. this concerns certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states which are experiencing or are likely to experience serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability and need to remain able to manage applications from third-country nationals.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports by mr torvalds, which contain provisions which would increase the rate of union co-financing and thus reduce the co-financing needs of the member states concerned.
in writing. the management of migration flows is an issue affecting all european countries and the eu member states must therefore show solidarity in this matter. this is particularly true in times of economic difficulties, when some countries face obstacles in implementing their migration management mechanisms. i therefore welcome the adoption of this measure, which will make it possible to increase the co-financing of funds for refugees, for return and for integration.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to show that the european union as a whole has a duty of solidarity on the crucial issue of migration flows, particularly towards the states most affected by the economic and financial crisis, so that they can fulfil their commitments at the external borders of the european union. it is unacceptable to leave countries like greece, which are suffering from austerity, alone and without the means to receive asylum seekers or immigrants in a decent way, in compliance with international conventions. i therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's proposal to increase the co-financing rates for the external borders fund by 20 percentage points for member states receiving financial assistance from the union.
in writing. this text, which i voted in favour of, introduces the possibility of increasing the eu co-financing rate by 20 percentage points for certain programmes adopted under the 'european refugee fund', the 'european return fund' or the 'european fund for the integration of third-country nationals' by member states receiving financial assistance from the european union. i believe that it is in the most difficult times that we should be most united with one another, and that one of the primary tasks of the european union is to promote economic cohesion among all the member states, which will also be beneficial to all.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european refugee fund, the return and integration fund for third-country nationals, to increase the eu's co-financing rate and thus enable certain member states in financial difficulties to continue to finance projects in these areas.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the two reports on the increase in the co-financing rate for member states in financial difficulty and on the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals. indeed, the impact of the economic and financial crisis on public finances has been severe in many member states. most of them have had to take, or have been forced to take, drastic austerity measures. as a result of these economic difficulties, the member states can no longer meet the requirements for co-financing by the european union. the libe reports propose that the co-financing rates for member states experiencing serious difficulties with their financial stability be increased as quickly as possible. i can only support it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to increase the co-financing rate from the external borders fund for certain member states which are experiencing or are likely to experience serious difficulties with their financial stability. the external borders fund promotes a fair sharing of responsibilities between member states for the establishment of an integrated management of the external borders of the european union and the implementation of common asylum and immigration policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports by mr torvalds, which contain provisions which would increase the rate of union co-financing and thus reduce the co-financing needs of the member states concerned.
in writing. this measure will enable states in difficulty to benefit from an increased co-financing rate from the european union for their expenditure on managing migration flows. if one state is no longer able to manage its migration flows properly, all our states are likely to suffer. with this vote, we are joining forces to ensure that the economic crisis does not have a detrimental impact on our migration objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to show the necessary duty of solidarity of the whole european union on the essential issue of migration flows, in particular towards the states most affected by the economic and financial crisis, so that they can fulfil their commitments at the external borders of the union. it is unacceptable to leave countries like greece, which are suffering from austerity, alone and without the means to welcome asylum seekers or immigrants in a decent way and in accordance with international conventions. i therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's proposal to increase the co-financing rates for the external borders fund by 20 percentage points for member states receiving union financial assistance.
in writing. this text provides for the possibility of increasing the eu co-financing rate for certain programmes adopted under the 'external borders fund' by member states experiencing or likely to experience serious difficulties in terms of financial stability. i voted in favour of this text, as i voted in favour of its equivalent for the programmes adopted under the 'european refugee fund', the 'european return fund' or the 'european fund for the integration of third-country nationals'. i believe that if the states fail because of the economic crisis, the european union must avoid weakening the protection of the external borders.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european external borders fund to increase the european union's co-financing rate, and thus to allow certain member states in financial difficulties to continue to finance projects in this area.
in writing. i supported this text which maintains technical conservation measures. these are rules that fishermen must observe every day when they go out to sea to ensure that the way and place of fishing is sustainable. these measures concern minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh sizes of nets and fishing areas. the aim is to encourage the use of more selective fishing gear in order to protect the marine environment.
in writing. technical conservation measures are rules to be observed daily by fishermen throughout the european union to ensure that the manner and location of fishing activity meet the criteria of sustainable development. i therefore give my vote to the rapporteur, pat the cope gallagher, who recognises the need for these measures, but also points out that they must be formulated and designed in harmony with the evolving nature of fisheries management and in accordance with scientific advice. the rapporteur points out that poorly designed or inappropriate technical measures can result in unsustainable fishing practices.
in writing. i voted for the gallagher report on technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources. i believe that it was necessary to update the existing measures in line with the latest scientific advice. this report will ensure that fish stocks are fished sustainably and that ecosystems are maintained and protected. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, especially since inappropriate technical measures can result not only in unsustainable fishing practices but also, in certain circumstances, in endangering the lives and safety of fishermen.
in writing. according to the european commission, 80% of fish stocks in the mediterranean and 47% in the atlantic are affected by overfishing. a major reform of the common fisheries policy is therefore urgently needed, and i supported this text, while at the same time being concerned to protect small-scale and recreational fisheries from excessive restrictions. the main points are as follows: - maximum sustainable yield: from 2015 onwards, no more should be fished than a given stock can produce in a given year - stocks should thus be restored by 2020. - end discards based on species or size - one quarter of the eu's total catch: mandatory landing of all catches in accordance with a timetable setting specific dates for the different fisheries, starting in 2014. - long-term planning: multiannual fish stock management plans to improve market predictability and help the sector to invest and plan for the future. negotiations with the member states will begin, and i hope that we will reach an agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on technical measures on which i was rapporteur for my group. while the vote on this text was only intended to extend transitional measures until january 2014, pending the adoption of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp), our discussions anticipated the complexity of the technical overhaul to come. while the cfp basic regulation is intended to define the broad guidelines of fisheries for the next ten years, the technical regulation defines the rules applicable by geographical area, trade, target stock, period of the year, etc. a genuine work of art, which makes it possible to put into practice, as closely as possible to the territorial realities, a policy conceived in a global way. the work on this transitional text has thus made it possible to put the cfp debates in perspective with reality and to ask the question of the implementation of many of the measures proposed in the reform, which are beautiful on paper but whose feasibility in everyday life is questionable, such as the compulsory landing of waste, for example. the follow-up in 2014...
in writing. violence against women is still too widespread, including in european countries. i am fully committed to this cause and that is why i supported this text. i voted in favour of this resolution, which recalls europe's commitment to combating such violence, including support for the launch of a global campaign to raise awareness of the prevention of violence against women and girls and gender-based violence.
in writing. violence against women and girls remains one of the most widespread human rights violations in the world, regardless of country or class, in both the private and public spheres. this is why i have voted in favour of requiring: 1) at union level, that the commission present a strategy against violence against women, including a directive setting minimum standards; 2) at the level of the council of europe, that the eu and the member states accede to the convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence; 3) at the united nations level, that the union subscribe, at the 2013 session, to the recommendation of the expert group recommending that the un commission develop a comprehensive action plan to eliminate such violence and discrimination, which should be adopted by all member states and launched in 2015.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which recalls that efforts to end violence against women and girls require a coordinated and multi-sectoral approach. the resolution also recalls that one of the main priorities in the fight against such violence should be the elimination of discriminatory socio-cultural behaviour which accentuates the subordinate position of women in society. in this respect, there is therefore a need to accelerate progress in the development of international legal standards and policies.
in writing. today, the european parliament has made its voice heard: europe must be a leader against violence against women. in this text we call for the establishment of a genuine european strategy to end violence against women. we need to take binding measures. the 57th session of the un commission on the status of women, to be held in march 2013, should be an important step towards achieving this goal. with this report, parliament sets out clear ambitions, those of an end to violence, all violence, and against all women, whatever their condition or geographical situation.
in writing. despite numerous awareness and prevention campaigns, violence against women, the most widespread form of human rights violation, remains a scourge in the european union and worldwide, across all social classes. today, one in five european women is a victim of moral harassment or physical and sexual violence. this unbearable reality, which is contrary to the most basic human rights, must be constantly combated, especially in europe, which is supposed to be an example in the field of human and women's rights. the european union must devote more resources to safeguarding the rights of women and girls, both in its external action through international cooperation, notably in humanitarian crises, and in the implementation of its internal policies.
in writing. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and as a feminist activist, i voted in favour of this text, which recalls the priority given to the fight against all forms of violence against women and girls. violence against women is one of the greatest violations of fundamental rights and remains the greatest gender inequality. in this text, parliament once again calls on the commission and the member states to define a common strategy within the union. efforts to eliminate and better prevent violence against women, such as rape or domestic violence, must be strengthened and continued. at the international level, my colleagues and i confirm the european union's commitment and support for the beijing agenda. and we hope very much that the 57th session of the un commission on the status of women will result in a comprehensive agreement next march.
in writing. unfortunately, women and girls are still subject to all kinds of violence (domestic violence, sexual assault and harassment, prostitution and human trafficking, etc.) throughout the world and within the european union itself, violence which often deprives them of their full civil and political rights. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which reiterates our support for programmes and bodies which combat violence against women and calls on the member states and the european union to increase their financial support for them. we also call on the european union to put in place an ambitious strategy to combat violence against women, including through the launch of a global awareness and prevention campaign, and greater intransigence towards third countries with which we have political or commercial relations, in terms of respect for women's rights.
in writing. we voted a resolution on the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls, in preparation for the 57th meeting of the un commission on the status of women. as a member of the european parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality, i can only welcome the fact that members have expressed strong support and commitment to this approach, calling for forward-looking conclusions that will help to put an end to this unacceptable violence.
in writing. the un figures are alarming: one in three women worldwide has been a victim of violence by a partner; between 40% and 50% of women in the european union reported sexual harassment in the workplace; and in france, a woman dies every three days from the beating of her husband. i voted in favour of this resolution because the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls is now a global priority. in the run-up to the 57th session of the un commission on the status of women, the european union must become more involved than ever in the protection of women. in this sense, it should encourage cooperation between member states and harmonise national plans to put in place an effective european strategy. at the same time, the union and its member states must support all those involved in this struggle, including civil society actors such as ngos and associations.
for the greens/efa group mr president, like my colleagues, i believe that the process which has begun in turkey is of the first importance, even historic, and that in this respect it is not like previous attempts - which have all failed so far - to negotiate peace between the turkish state and its government and the kurds. it's about ending a decades-long cycle of violence, a cycle of repression and rebellion, which has caused the deaths of tens of thousands of people, and i have to say that for the families, whether they are mothers, daughters or sisters of police officers, soldiers, guerrillas or civilians, the pain is the same. it is therefore important to put an end to this pain in order to restart a new stage of democracy in turkey, since the kurdish question is the taboo issue which today - as we see in the debates in the turkish national assembly - is revealing and clarifying the political landscape. it is a departure from those who favour progress on citizenship, equal rights, local and regional governance and a repressive political stance that is a relic of the nationalist past. there are also - and this has been said and is very important - considerable regional issues which both motivate the government's determination to move resolutely towards peace and negotiation and which, at the same time, will have major stabilizing effects at the regional level. of course, after decades of suspicion, violence, and even hatred, trust is not easy to establish. it is not easy to be positive and it is not easy to find the language of reconciliation, peace and democracy. it is not easy, but not to do so would be a historic mistake with tragic consequences. the population itself showed this very simply when it welcomed the bodies of the three kurdish women activists in diyarbakir, without any provocation from any side. the people have expressed their determination for peace and have been respected in their aspiration for peace. i believe that this very strong message, sent by the population, must be today the positive energy that allows the actors to transcend their quarrels and, sometimes, their hatred of the past. it's going to be complicated, everybody knows that, there are many dimensions. it is a process that will take place in the national assembly, through the constitution, and that will require direct discussions with the armed wing of the pkk, with the militants who are numerous here in europe, with the population and with the political representative of the kurdish population, the bdp. all these actors must now converge in the same spirit in their various fields of action to contribute to peace and democracy. since mr öcalan is recognised as the leader of all these components, and since the government has in some way acceded to this vast campaign by the population to take mr öcalan as an interlocutor and negotiator, this recognised leader must have the means to carry out this historic task. we must strengthen mr öcalan's working conditions, we must enable him to dialogue with the various components of the movement in order to find the best synthesis, the one which will enable all parties to be winners in the common interest of peace and democracy in turkey.
the question is "blue cardboard". i would just like to ask our colleague if he has looked at what was on the agenda for our meeting this afternoon. it is not a question of turkey joining the european union or of fighting immigration of any kind, but of supporting a peace process which needs all our support, beyond our divisions.
mr president, it is with great emotion that i rise to speak in this house today. on 9 january, three kurdish women activists, sakine, fidan and leyla, were murdered in cold blood in the kurdistan information centre in paris. i knew one of them personally. this horrible murder has caused an unprecedented wave of emotion. many democrats have discovered the tragedy of the kurdish people. in paris, 50,000 people gathered on the saturday after the assassination. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. from the day of the murder, i have said and said again that we must let the french judiciary do its job and ask the french government to ensure that this judiciary works in complete independence. this murder, like others, and various other manipulations in turkey and other countries of the european union can only be seen as attempts to destabilize the peace process which is just beginning in turkey. this is a historic moment. the european union must put its full weight on the balance sheet, and not just in terms of financial aid, commissioner. she has to put her political weight in the balance. she's done it somewhere else. anyone who is aware of the situation in turkey knows how the turkish authorities are using the fight against terrorism to imprison kurdish activists and all those who are fighting for democracy, whether journalists, lawyers, intellectuals and many others. eight to ten thousand people are political prisoners in turkey. this can't go on. the european union and its member states must not allow criticism to be heard in this area. political cooperation can no longer continue without a clarification of the very definition of terrorism. the pkk, with which the turkish government is openly negotiating today, must be removed from the european union's list of terrorist organisations. all men and women living in turkey have the right to peace and to respect for their rights in the same way. it is indeed the future of the region that is at stake. the european union must help all the stakeholders to overcome what i would call their tensions. it must actively support the peace process and weigh its weight so that it can finally be brought to a conclusion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, iran, syria, burma, china and i could name many other countries where, today in 2013, human rights are still being violated and suppressed. it is our duty as europeans to guarantee human rights and to promote our values of humanity, solidarity and fraternity. i therefore welcome the speech by the vice-president/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and i also welcome the ambitious resolutions of the european parliament in view of the 22nd session of the un human rights council, which will meet in geneva from 25 february to 22 march. it is our responsibility, mr president, to ensure that human rights are respected and promoted in the world. it is up to us to lead by example and to stand up for all those who are victims of discrimination or violations of these rights: civil, economic and political rights but also individual rights such as the rights of women, minorities and lgbt people. we need to address these issues that are too often forgotten or overlooked. the failure to respect human rights leads to xenophobia, racism, intolerance. i want to believe, mr president, that the european union, with the tools at its disposal today, can and must strengthen freedom and tolerance. the eu's human rights policy framework is indeed bold and ambitious, but we must have the dream that one day everyone will have the opportunity to enjoy these rights everywhere in the world. i hope that my colleagues who will be going to geneva for the council will be able to carry our voice and our vision of a world where we will no longer have to fight for the universality and indivisibility of human rights. it is up to us to build a better world where everyone can live in dignity and freedom.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i do not really understand the relevance of the debate we are having today. the rule of law and freedom are european values and even obligations: a number of you have mentioned this, including the commissioner. bulgaria is making efforts to comply with them. it is also to be welcomed that a bulgarian electoral code has been drawn up, which sets out clear rules and thus prevents strategic and undemocratic changes a few weeks before the elections. all the international organizations recognize this. on january 8, 2013, the council of europe's group of states against corruption (greco) commended bulgaria for its reforms. it is also worth noting that the country has the second highest score in freedom house's "freedom in the world 2013" report for civil liberties and political rights. i cannot help but wonder about the reasons behind this debate. is it considered that a failed gas pistol attack at a national congress is an event of european significance? it is a dramatic event for the person who witnessed it, everyone recognizes it, and it is condemned. in fact, the bulgarian police arrested the perpetrator and the alleged perpetrator of this really reprehensible attack, but is that a reason to debate it today? is this, i repeat, an event of european significance? unfortunately, these things happen. there are unbalanced people in every european country, including france. for example, the president of the french republic, whom you heard yesterday, suffered the same thing. he got his ass kicked during the campaign and didn't make a big deal out of it, if i may say so. another unfortunate example is that of the mayor of paris, bertrand delanoë, who was the victim of a dramatic attack a few years ago. he was stabbed, remember? everyone supported him in this dramatic case. in short, there are imbalanced people everywhere, but is that a reason to take a european parliament hostage? it is not acceptable that this parliament should be used as a vehicle for a debate on national policy. this is an internal matter. the commissioner mentioned this at the beginning of the debate. i note that the bulgarian elections have been the subject of genuine harassment by a number of political groups in parliament for some time now, whether in the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, or in the last plenary session during the debate on corruption, when this was not necessary, and during a number of political hearings. this national problem must be solved in a way... (the president cut the speaker off) (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i said the police have arrested the culprit. of course, i condemn this act, as everyone else has done. that's not fair. the unbalanced man was arrested by the police and is currently in prison. the police did their job and the courts did theirs. and i think that everything was done in a way... (the president interrupts the speaker for a technical problem)
i tell ana that the police have arrested the suspect and that he is in the hands of the law at the moment. what's more natural than that? is that a satisfactory answer, ana?
madam president, commissioner, madam representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the next climate conference, called cop-19, will be held in warsaw, poland, in november and december 2013. this conference will be crucial. the last climate conference, in doha in december 2012, achieved only modest results, even though the stakes are high. we got the bare minimum, no more, no less. in the absence of a thorough reform, the kyoto protocol was extended. the european union, with a clear and united position, has been able to lay the foundations for a comprehensive agreement which should start during the period 2015-2020. the next cop in warsaw will have to transform the test and finally get this global agreement. we have to be ambitious. we cannot be satisfied with looking only for the lowest common denominator between countries. few would argue against the urgency of tackling climate change. the consequences are many and dangerous - human, economic and ecological. the european union has maintained its global environmental leadership and has not waited for its partners to act. the united states, china, russia, india and so many others must urgently invest more. this is a responsibility for all, but these efforts require funding because they are very expensive. they are a burden on our companies. the risk of curbing our competitiveness and thus our economic recovery exists. however, it is clear that by investing today, we also ensure our competitive advantage for tomorrow. let us face it, sooner or later, all of us, without exception, will have to deal with climate change, which is an inescapable reality of the coming decades. i have many other things to say to you, but what i want to say, commissioner, is that the european union must reform its ets system to have an effective climate policy.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an emergency. time is running out and europe must, by 2015, strengthen its role as a driving force to persuade, as our commission president, matthias groote, said earlier in his speech. as you recalled, commissioner, in lille last week, where we were together in a debate on adaptation to climate change, only 14 member states have a national strategy for adaptation to climate change. if we are to be credible on the international stage, the other 13 must move quickly. it's about our credibility. i trust you, madam commissioner, i trust your determination, as you have already shown since you have been in office. for greater efficiency, all initiatives on climate change should adopt a transnational perspective to better identify the financing needs of each state, especially with a view to the establishment of a green fund, the financial contribution of which by the contributing states should be specified. yes, there is an emergency. time is of the essence, as is shown, for example, by the many floods that regularly affect my constituency in northwestern france. we're starting to live in a changed climate. that's why it's urgent. i trust you, commissioner, that together we can convince.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the amflora potato, after the gmos, after all, do you remember the episode of the production of rosé wine from white wine coupled with red wine, which the commission is proposing to us today? the idea of re-launching discussions on allowing certain producers, particularly american producers, to use the terms 'château' and 'clos' to identify and market their wine. i am french, but as my colleagues have just reminded me, this is not a french specialty. we have historic wine-growing areas in europe and some names have a special connotation because they come from a long tradition of know-how. in particular, the term 'château' for bordeaux and 'clos' for burgundy are known throughout the world and are synonymous not only with high quality wines but also, as astrid lulling said just now, with heritage and even european terroir. of course, it is understandable that the united states would like to be able to use these mentions to take advantage of the aura of these wines that accompanies them, of their reputation that has been built up over the centuries by winegrowers. but, commissioner, such an authorization would have very serious consequences if there were no identical conditions of reciprocity for production. there would be, as has been said, a risk of deception, a kind of deception for the consumer which we cannot accept. of course, we cannot forbid the americans or the chileans to have "castles" and "clos" but it must be a reality. so let's not sell our heritage, our heritage, let's come to our senses.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to complete the speech made by astrid lulling a few moments ago by comparing three definitions. at community level, the term 'château' is protected as a traditional term under articles 118 duovicies and tervicies of regulation 1234/2007. article 57 of regulation (ec) no 607/2009 provides for a community definition and a harmonised framework for the use of a number of traditional terms relating to a wine-growing operation. in 2007 and 2009, the commission was before codecision, and the commissioner probably thought that this made sense. at the same time, the united states defined in title 27, paragraph 4.25 of the federal regulatory code the term 'château' as a wine produced in the region of a designation of origin by a producer or a group of producers, from grapes from vineyards that have traditionally been exploited by those producers using on the label the term 'château' as an integral part of the brand name as defined in title 27, paragraph 4.33 of the federal regulatory code. it is therefore a trademark. this definition, which attempts to imitate the community definition, is unfortunately wrong and does not correspond to reality. it does not even correspond to the definition of the wineamerica association on which the claim for the benefit of the term 'château' for its members is based, which sets out a definition of a completely different nature in its resolution of 24 march 2009, authenticated by a bailiff. none of the elements indicated by the commission in its publication in the official journal is included in this definition published by wineamerica. in these circumstances, there can be no equivalence of definitions and the american request is not acceptable. if community law allows for the recognition of a ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me essential today, commissioner, that the commission should ensure that this request is fully in line with the provisions of the european regulations for the protection of designations of origin, geographical indications and traditional terms applicable to third countries. the use of these indications is authorized provided that they meet the same or equivalent conditions as those required of our member states. if this is not the case, this unlawful authorization would create unfair competition between american and european wines bearing the traditional terms 'château' and 'clos'. firstly, because american wines, unlike european wines, are not made exclusively from grapes harvested from a single holding and whose winemaking is entirely carried out on that same holding. secondly, because it would be misleading consumers about branded products unrelated to a farm. finally, because such authorization would constitute a misappropriation of the reputation acquired through decades of work and identification efforts. we would thus be exposing ourselves to the risk that these traditional terms would no longer be protected against competition from other parts of the world. this would set a dangerous precedent which, in the future, could affect many other traditional european names such as abbazzia, casa, torre and burg. in view of the economic situation and the cultural challenges facing our european viticulture, commissioner, can you honestly assure us that the american application is admissible and above all fully complies with the conditions of validity concerning the traditional term and, in particular, its definition as provided for in community legislation?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as early as 2012, we were concerned about the european commission's proposal to allow the sale in the union of bottles of american wines bearing the words "château" and "clos", which are traditionally used in french wine-growing regions to ensure that consumers are assured of a quality artisanal product. there are many constraints to obtain this label, which designates a wine with a controlled designation of origin, made from 100% grapes harvested and vinified on the property. in the united states, it may be a simple trademark, based on a purely industrial approach, without any guarantee of origin. while we have fought to maintain planting rights, the guarantee of quality regulated viticulture, the european union would expose our european wine growers to unfair competition, leading to a large-scale misappropriation of reputation. i hope therefore that the commission will come to its senses and defend our wine growers at all costs.
in writing. european wine labels indicate specific production and winemaking methods and are thus intended to provide clear information to consumers. these are the keys to the originality of our wines, and many producers have to work hard to achieve them. in europe, the appellation château guarantees a wine made from 100% grapes harvested and vinified on the same property. in the united states, it is a simple trademark, which can be used for wines made from grapes harvested from different estates and by different producers. the use of the designation 'château' may not be granted to wines from third countries as long as their winegrowers do not take into account european production and winemaking requirements. the consumer must not be misled about the product, and competition must be fair and based on the principle of commercial reciprocity. i therefore call on you, commissioner, not to give in to the sirens of american marketing and to allow the sale in the eu of wines which strictly comply with the european criteria for the 'château' label!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, responding to the crisis, closing the deficits, stabilising public finances: the european union is facing an economic situation which calls for pragmatic and rapid responses. this is the whole point of the rapid reaction mechanism (rrm) against vat fraud. allowing member states to intervene quickly means that they can better combat tax fraud and evasion. since the beginning of my mandate as a member of the european parliament, my battle horse has been the same, simplification: simplification of european procedures, simplification of european policies, simplification of european communication. unfortunately, the need to take into account the interests and concerns of all leads us down the opposite path, that of complication. but today i am pleased to speak in defence of a text which is really in the direction of simplification. the aim of the text is to simplify the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. in this time of budgetary austerity, when we are looking for the least savings, here is an effective way to find extra money. vat fraud costs the european union and national budgets several billion euros a year. we can't afford that luxury anymore. this therefore contributes to the restoration and maintenance of public financial stability. it would be unjustified if the effort were not distributed equally among all european citizens. this rapid reaction mechanism, which allows a member state to get rid of a formal authorization, will nevertheless have to be well supervised. we cannot afford to let major distortions of vat take root in the european union. it is about the coherence of the single market. this easing of administrative procedures is to be welcomed and pursued. however, the need to combat tax fraud and evasion also reminds us of the need to embark on a new european stage. many of us feel that the need for full tax harmonization has become urgent, oh, how urgent, within our union. this text gives me the opportunity to call again for progress in this direction, commissioner. the taboos of a genuine european tax policy must be broken. simplification and efficiency are what we must seek in all areas of our europe.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, commissioner, welcome mr president of the european investment bank and congratulations on your appointment. i would like to say a word to my colleague, mario mauro, to congratulate him on his report. i rank him among the most brilliant politicians of his generation and i am happy to have this debate with him today. first, a word about the timing. we're working on the 2011 report. mr president, i would like to propose that we speed up our time for reflection. it is 2013, can we not have these debates a little earlier, as we did with the landfill? as regards the capital increase of 10 billion, the president of the french republic was asked about the famous growth plan, which we expect to produce results. your bank has been called in, mr. president. could you tell us frankly when we will see real results? because i'm wondering how consistent that $10 billion is with your capital. i think that this is 230 billion, and the member states have only paid 10 or 12 and, with the reserves, you have 50 billion of capital. frankly, what good is this 10 billion if the member states are not able to pay what they already owe on the 230 billion they have subscribed? how do we ensure consistency with your statutes, since you can only lend two and a half times the subscribed capital? now, they say that with 10 billion, you're going to lend 60. could you shed some light on this? as regards investment, we proposed that the commission should entrust you with a study on financial resources for investment. you have a lot of financial engineers, both public and private, in your bank. i think it would be interesting if you could tell us how we could finance this great investment plan we are waiting for. i regret that the commission does not want to propose it, because we could have public-private partnerships, guarantees, subsidies, cooperation with the regions and an idea of an investment section of the european union, commissioner. we are lacking in our budget a real investment section to house multiannual operations, such as galileo or iter. a word about prudential supervision. mr president, you have no supervisory control in your bank. it's still not normal. the heads of state and michel barnier tell us that no bank will escape supervision. for five years parliament and the committee on budgetary control have been asking for you to have a supervisory control. can you tell us what you think? i forgot to greet your predecessor, philippe maystadt, with whom we worked a lot and who agreed that, for example, the ecb, on the basis of article 127 of the treaty, could carry out this task, or the future banking union, or that this should be done on a voluntary basis, mr president. i would like to conclude on the rules of competition, also in relation to other credit institutions. if i may say so, we want the european union to become a partner in the bank. we've been asking for it for three years. your predecessor was in favor of it. i'd like to know what you think. finally, we would like you to maintain your aaa rating. please do everything you can to ensure that this is the case, because we have a feeling that the eib is a bit over-the-top, that you are asked to do a lot of things, some of which are not banking. we really rely on you to be very vigilant so that we have a strong bank, well-chaired, well-managed with a triple-a rating. i thank you for your attention to the members of parliament because you are not obliged to do so, since you are an intergovernmental body. we are very moved by your presence, and also in our parliamentary committees, where you come to debate with us.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr skylakakis, distinguished member of the committee on budgetary control, you said: 'we need a plan five to ten times more ambitious'. do you not think that through our political groups and with national parliamentarians we can convince our governments to pay what they owe to the eib? of the 230 billion commitments, they have paid about 12 and 50 billion. they have about 180 to 200 billion to pay. if we were to do a ten-year plan, that would be 20 billion a year, multiplied by six. with 200 billion payments over 10 years, that would give us an investment plan of almost 1.2 billion. what do you think of the idea of convincing the member states to put together a kind of ten-year business plan and convincing them to pay the capital they have subscribed to?
mr president, the report is about the eib, which is presented as indispensable to the achievement of europe's objectives. if i believe the report, europe would be on the right track having taken drastic measures to improve discipline and monitoring of national debts and budgets. europe, which should take active steps to improve inclusive growth, which would need high-quality job offers, better productivity and blah blah blah blah blah... what europe needs most of all is for those who are leading it to remove the beam from their eye, the beam that prevents them from seeing that we are going straight into the wall. what europe needs most of all is for its leaders to stop, once and for all, smoking the illicit substances that make them so high that they often feel as if they were living on another planet. without a strong political will, without the implementation of innovative political, economic and social policies, aimed primarily at meeting the needs of the peoples of europe, we are headed for an explosion. the peoples of europe are willing to put their courage and intelligence to work for the building of a new european society in which everyone has a place. to achieve this, they need an end to this political logic which destroys everything in its path, which has no feeling for either man or nature. that economic predators - whether they are called mittal or otherwise - be put out of harm's way and that a stop to all stock market layoffs be decreed immediately throughout europe. the austerity policies that are destroying the social fabric and preventing economic recovery must be stopped. that public services, which help to protect the weakest, stabilise our societies, enable social and human development, be safeguarded and strengthened. the money should be used to meet the needs of women and men. that our territory be protected from social, environmental and fiscal dumping, which only serves the interests of the richest. here you go. this is weird! all of that is never discussed here.
mr president, i would like to make a point of order. yesterday, while a delegation of steel workers was being received in this parliament to discuss the future of the european steel industry, outside their colleagues were being beaten, gassed and tasered. this is unacceptable. the workers were just coming to discuss the future of the steel industry and they found themselves completely surrounded. we've set a trap for them. i want this reported. it took the intervention of meps to stop such abuses. this is unacceptable! the social dialogue must allow everyone to express himself in a calm manner. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. demographic trends in the european union are characterised by an ageing population. this calls for a change in attitudes and a better consideration of the needs of the elderly. this resolution echoes that and that is why i supported it in the vote. for example, in addition to adapting infrastructure, it is important to prepare the population for ageing several years in advance through specific public health programmes. for example, physical activity should be promoted to ensure healthy ageing.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing. i welcome the emphasis on the relationship between people and the environment and the need for regions and cities to adapt to the needs and capacities of their ageing populations. with a view to a society adapted to all ages by 2020, i also advocate a participatory approach to assessing the real needs of ageing populations. this report proposes some sensible measures and i welcome its adoption.
in writing. this report sets ambitions to take better account of the specific needs of our elderly, by promoting a change in attitudes. the need now is to adopt a global view of ageing, which is not an isolated condition but has roots and consequences in both social and health terms. we therefore have every reason to rely on technological innovation to solve the challenges of isolation and mobility. there is still untapped potential to be explored in this direction, and i hope that this report will encourage each of us to innovate in this area.
in writing. the continuous increase in life expectancy of europeans has the consequence of an ageing of the total population of the union. the number of people aged 65 or over is expected to double by 2060 to 151 million. this is an unprecedented demographic revolution, for which europe must prepare itself by adapting its territories, its public spaces and transport, its places of life, to the specific needs of this population. the aim is to promote healthy ageing everywhere, as analyses have clearly demonstrated the interaction between place and person, the influence of conditions in the immediate and more distant environment on how people age. this means that beyond equipment and facilities, the availability of appropriate care services and treatment must be addressed. the work is immense, as many studies show that the european union is not prepared for these demographic and spatial changes. the commission's proposed approach, which is based on partnership with regional and local policy-makers and the incentive to increase the participation of older people in decision-making and policy-making, is a step in the right direction. all generations, including the youngest, must now feel concerned by this problem.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to support the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing set up by the european commission. its aim is to extend the healthy life expectancy of eu citizens by two years by 2020. the partnership aims to focus on the prevention of ageing-related diseases and to stimulate innovation in healthcare technologies. this initiative brings together public and private actors, who are committed to achieving results to improve the health and quality of life of older people and to strengthen the sustainability and efficiency of health systems. the ageing of the population is one of the most serious problems facing europe. the number of europeans aged 65 and over will double over the next 50 years, from 87 million in 2010 to 148 million in 2060. this is a challenge for european social and health systems. information and communication technologies (ict) must enable us to preserve the autonomy of older people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing. demographic change is marked by the increasing proportion of older people in our societies. the category of people aged over 65 is expected to double over the next 50 years and reach 148 million in 2060, up from 87 million today. this challenge calls for concrete measures and arrangements, both at the level of infrastructure and health systems, services, social protection and employment. the analysis is done, and now we must act so that these people are not seen as a burden but as a driving force in our societies.
in writing. this report is in favour of raising the retirement age. he advocates the privatisation of pension systems and claims that it is the 'personal responsibility' of workers to 'think about what they can do to secure their retirement'. it even calls for the "crucial role of the family and intergenerational solidarity" to replace the welfare state. it also supports greater flexibility in the labour market and the proliferation of à la carte contracts. i am of the opinion that active ageing is the right to a decent pension at the age of 60. i am voting against this text and denouncing its cowardly social hypocrisy.
in writing. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora plays a central role in the conservation of biodiversity. i voted in favour of this resolution for future negotiations. it is important that the european union maintains its global leadership in the field of the environment, and this requires, in particular, ambitious targets for the preservation of biodiversity.
in writing. preserving wild fauna and flora is not only a requirement for our environment, it is also about ensuring that our future generations have a diverse and rich planet. europe must set strong ambitions to end poaching and protect endangered species. the over-exploitation of our resources cannot be justified. but for that to happen, europe must start speaking with one voice. this ambition is crucial and urgent. the future of some rare species is at stake.
in writing. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is the main global tool to prevent the overexploitation of protected species. the activities of cites, of which the 27 eu member states are members, are already helping to reduce illegal trade in protected natural species, but the hunting of certain species, such as sharks or polar bears, should be subject to even more stringent controls. all member states of the convention must also pay particular attention to the poaching of elephants and rhinos, which are still hunted for ivory and horns. finally, if the objectives of cites are to be praised, it is essential that its action programmes are adequately resourced to be effective. the eu member states must become aware of these biodiversity challenges by increasing their financial contribution.
in writing. as rapporteur for the 7th eu environment action programme, i attach particular importance to the protection of natural capital and the preservation of biodiversity in the eu and globally. i therefore welcome the resolution adopted by the european parliament in view of the 16th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora to be held in bangkok from 3 to 14 march 2013. in particular, the union is invited to strengthen the protection of marine biodiversity by including certain shark species in annex ii. the union is also encouraged to continue the fight against elephant and rhino poaching, which is a serious threat to the future of these species. as regards the polar bear, its transfer from annex ii to annex i should be considered, provided that a scientifically based approach is favoured and that the classification conditions laid down in the convention are met. finally, we expect the union to speak with one voice to give the best weight to the decisions of cites and to advocate the introduction of a more transparent voting system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the cites resolution. however, while some voices in the debate argue that the protection of species would require the limitation and prohibition of hunting, i believe that a well-managed management plan cannot harm species, far from it. hunters are investing heavily in conservation, as was witnessed at the international safari club convention in reno, nevada, u.s.a., where large sums of private funds are being invested by hunters in conservation projects.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which highlights the savings made in the european parliament, such as the freezing of meps' allowances. in fact, in a time of crisis, it seems to me essential that the european institutions also make efforts to reduce public expenditure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague monika hohlmeier on the priorities for the 2014 budget, including that the institutions should continue to limit or freeze their administrative budgets in solidarity with member states in economic and budgetary difficulties, without prejudice to the quality of the institutions' core activities, compliance with legal obligations and the need to invest in development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which was intended to give parliament's opinion on the general framework and priorities of the 2014 budget. in this resolution we reaffirmed that the institutions should continue to limit or freeze their budgets in solidarity with member states in budgetary difficulties and urged them to strengthen their mutual cooperation in order to more easily identify the savings that could be made by pooling human and technical resources. the resolution also recalls that the european parliament has committed itself to a process of spending moderation, including by freezing the allowances of members at the 2011 level until the end of the parliamentary term, as well as those of staff missions.
in writing. the report welcomes the budgetary restrictions put in place by the european parliament 'as a sign of solidarity with the member states'. i would point out that this parliament has so far approved most of the policies which destroy states. the majority of this house will not remedy the damage it is doing to the peoples of europe by cutting its budget by a few million euros! moreover, while some budget cuts implemented, such as the freezing of the 2011 level of members' allowances until the end of the parliamentary term, are justified, others are completely unjustified. i denounce the principle of demand-driven translation and interpretation services which this text welcomes. multilingualism must be respected. it is impossible for us members of parliament to work without having immediate access to the texts and speeches produced in the european institutions in our own language! it is equally unlikely that citizens cannot access institutional information in their own language. where is the transparency that the commission and so many meps claim to defend? the european construction is becoming a conspiracy led by a secret-speaking sect. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to set up a new eu strategy for corporate social responsibility for the period 2011-2014. in this time of crisis and questioning, it is essential to support any initiative aimed at promoting responsible behaviour, including within companies.
in writing. while european citizens are still suffering the effects of the crisis, the reports by richard howitt and raffaele baldassarre are a reminder that europe's recovery must be sustainable. while the hallmark of csr is its voluntary nature, a policy combining the regulatory and voluntary approaches is necessary to ensure that csr is taken into account on a widespread basis. the un smart mix is not the enemy of business as some, fiercely opposed to any regulatory approach, would have us believe. companies have taken the lead and are innovating in csr: the vast majority of the largest european companies are already communicating on this subject. the regulatory power is lagging behind the market. the two reports adopted on csr are a first step towards recognising its added value in the social market economy. the commission must now put its idea into practice with a legislative proposal on the transparency of non-financial information published by companies. france has led the way in this respect. since the new economic regulations act 2001 large companies have been required to publish social and environmental information in their annual reports. this obligation is about to be strengthened and extended.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague raffaele baldassarre which abolishes the dichotomy between voluntary and compulsory approaches. the commission has so far focused its discussions on csr. in addition, the report aims to improve transparency and self- and co-regulation processes and to make csr more attractive to businesses. a central element in these sectors is progress, which increases citizens' confidence in business and reduces the gap between citizens' expectations and what they actually perceive from business.
in writing. we have just sent a strong signal to the commission to effectively implement its 2014-2020 csr strategy, to governments to promote csr through legal or tax incentives, and to business leaders to dare to set ambitious social and environmental standards regardless of the size of their structure. the application of csr in europe is now a matter of political will. but it is also a legal issue, because if csr is to remain on a voluntary basis, it needs to be promoted through public procurement, trade agreements, reporting of non-financial activities. without these legal tools to encourage csr, the political will may not be sufficient to spread it as a 'normal' practice across european companies of all sizes.
in writing. businesses, especially smaller ones, would benefit greatly from having better access to existing information and good practice. because they have a direct impact on their communities, because they are the main job creators in europe, i welcome the angle taken in this report, which gives a central place to smes.
in writing. corporate social responsibility, which means the voluntary integration by companies of social and environmental concerns into their business activities, should guide european companies in their activities, especially abroad, and especially when investing in countries where social and environmental standards are less stringent than in europe. while many european companies have subscribed to the principles of csr as set out in the un global compact for business, progress remains slow, with some european companies even being prosecuted for human rights and labour rights violations. europe must give substance to the social dimension of private sector activity and set an example in moralizing business practices. csr must be applied by all european enterprises, especially smes. to achieve this, a flexible and cooperative approach is needed, allowing for the flow of information and the dissemination of good practice. csr must become a shared issue and be thought of as a worthwhile and positive investment. the union must also integrate a strong social dimension into its trade policy and always mention csr in trade agreements with third countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to strengthen corporate social responsibility while preserving its voluntary nature. companies must be accountable and transparent to citizens about their activities. however, this approach must remain voluntary if companies are to go beyond compliance with the minimum standards in force. it is not by imposing new rules that companies will become more responsible. nevertheless, the european institutions can help and support the changes in mindsets in the business community so that they comply with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. voluntary 'good practices' are not enough and transparency should not be an option. it is essential to break with this purely voluntarist approach to corporate social responsibility and move towards legal obligations. in a context of intensive exploitation of natural resources in the south, there are many examples of abusive behaviour by european companies in the extractive industry, with the dramatic health, social and environmental consequences we know. a system of controls and binding instruments must be put in place, and the extractive industries transparency initiative must be included in all trade agreements. as it stands, in this report, the account is not there. so i refrained.
in writing. i welcome the positive signal given by the european parliament on corporate social responsibility. csr is defined as the responsibility of enterprises for the effects they have on society. in other words, concerns and values in the social, environmental and ethical fields are no longer the preserve of large companies but extend to the business world as a whole, as the actions and activities of companies have a direct and indirect impact on society. businesses contribute to the development of our economies and the flourishing of our societies when they are realistically and respectfully anchored in them. csr is an ambitious but achievable objective which must be borne by the companies themselves, because they know better than anyone else their possibilities and limitations. the csr approach must be implemented in a timely manner without the additional regulations and administrative burdens that would hinder its appropriation. we must encourage our companies to respect social, environmental and ethical principles and values, and we must support them in this process, not impose on them an additional burden which would ultimately lead to a lack of confidence in europe and harm their competitiveness.
in writing. in its new strategy, the european commission proposed to redefine corporate social responsibility (csr) as 'the responsibility of companies for their effects on society'. parliament welcomed this new definition, which abolishes the dichotomy between voluntary and compulsory approaches that has so far polarised discussions on the subject, and which clearly shows that csr development is based on several processes. however, it amended the commission's proposal, rejecting any approach to csr which would involve the taking over by enterprises of the functions of public authorities, and in favour of an approach to csr which is guided mainly by enterprises themselves, on the basis of their own possibilities and needs. i therefore voted in favour of this amended version.
in writing. i decided to abstain on the report on corporate social responsibility, transparent behaviour and sustainable growth. while the report seems to be a real step forward in the area of corporate responsibility for the effects it has on society, it does not contain any real binding measures which could determine, in practice, the behaviour of companies. it is a pity that the european union is once again limiting itself to good intentions.
in writing. this report highlights the european union's commitment to socially responsible business behaviour. although very much focused on 'statements of intent', this report foreshadows a more concrete draft text, which is being prepared by the european commission. i voted in favour of this text because it is important to rethink the role and action of enterprises in european society.
in writing. while european citizens are still suffering the effects of the crisis, the reports by richard howitt and raffaele baldassarre are a reminder that europe's recovery must be sustainable. while the hallmark of csr is its voluntary nature, a policy combining the regulatory and voluntary approaches is necessary to ensure that csr is taken into account on a widespread basis. the un smart mix is not the enemy of business as some, fiercely opposed to any regulatory approach, would have us believe. companies have taken the lead and are innovating in csr: the vast majority of the largest european companies are already communicating on this subject. the regulatory power is lagging behind the market. the two reports adopted on csr are a first step towards recognising its added value in the social market economy. the commission must now put its idea into practice with a legislative proposal on the transparency of non-financial information published by companies. france has led the way in this respect. since the new economic regulations act 2001 large companies have been required to publish social and environmental information in their annual reports. this obligation is about to be strengthened and extended.
in writing. csr helps to mitigate the social effects of the current economic crisis by providing a set of values towards a sustainable economic system. however, many companies in the european union have not yet fully integrated csr into their behaviour. i therefore support the rapporteur, mr howitt, who says, in particular, that the public authorities can make a significant contribution, through regulation, to advancing csr. it also recommends that member states develop and implement national csr action plans.
in writing. we have just sent a strong signal to the commission to effectively implement its 2014-2020 csr strategy, to governments to promote csr through legal or tax incentives, and to business leaders to dare to set ambitious social and environmental standards regardless of the size of their structure. the application of csr in europe is now a matter of political will. csr goes beyond the prerequisite that eu companies must meet in europe and in third countries where they operate: respect for the oecd guiding principles, human rights, ilo standards. we need to support companies engaged in csr and attract hesitant smes through tax or legal incentives and through the creation of various rating agencies that will allow better communication with investors and consumers and that will allow them to be identified by a specific label or labelling. csr is a response to the social expectations of citizens, because if it is applied by the largest number of enterprises, it will allow for better social convergence.
in writing. i voted in favour of the howitt report on corporate social responsibility (csr). in the present context, i believe that csr is indispensable if we want to restore confidence in business and a lasting economic recovery. i welcome the emphasis on european support for global initiatives and on collaboration between the public and private sectors.
in writing. corporate social responsibility, which means the voluntary integration by companies of social and environmental concerns into their business activities should guide european companies in their activities, including abroad, especially when investing in countries where social and environmental standards are less stringent than in europe. while many european companies have subscribed to the principles of csr as set out in the un global compact for business, progress remains slow, with some european companies even being prosecuted for human rights and labour rights violations. europe must give substance to the social dimension of private sector activity and set an example in moralizing business practices. csr must be applied by all european enterprises, especially smes. to achieve this, a flexible and cooperative approach is needed, allowing for the flow of information and the dissemination of good practice. csr must become a shared issue and be thought of as a worthwhile and positive investment. the union must also integrate a strong social dimension into its trade policy and always mention csr in trade agreements with third countries.
in writing. voluntary 'good practices' are not enough, and transparency should not be an option. it is essential to break with this purely voluntarist approach to corporate social responsibility in order to move towards legal obligations. in a context of intensive exploitation of natural resources in the south, there are many examples of abusive behaviour by european companies in the extractive industry, with the dramatic health, social and environmental consequences we know. a system of controls and binding instruments must be put in place, and the extractive industries transparency initiative must be included in all trade agreements. as it stands, in this report, the account is not there. so i refrained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this parliament resolution, which welcomes the commission's communication on corporate social responsibility, in particular the emphasis on european support for global csr initiatives, while stressing the need to strike a balance between regulatory and voluntary approaches, although minimum regulation is essential. it stresses in particular the need to respect and apply international standards on csr, in particular those of the oecd and the un agreement in principle.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which proposes a new definition of corporate social responsibility as 'the responsibility of companies for their effects on society'. companies must start a process to integrate social, environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer concerns into their activities. we should, with this new strategy, create a community of values for owners/shareholders, as well as for other stakeholders and society as a whole.
in writing. the vote of our assembly shows that the concept of 'corporate social responsibility' (csr) is not a dirty word, but must be seen as a catalogue of best practices in social and environmental matters, to guarantee jobs and sustainable growth for our companies. i supported this text, which encourages the promotion of these fair and responsible standards and practices, because it appears to be a means of strengthening confidence in the private sector and its attractiveness. csr is a lever for competitiveness, growth and employment, and i am pleased that many companies, especially smes, are implementing these good practices. this is part of our objectives to combat social disintegration and environmental degradation, in order to promote the sustainability of entrepreneurship in europe. if our companies commit themselves to the csr approach as we advocate in parliament, the expected benefits will be considerable for our employment pools, without any additional cost. the added value of these practices is therefore immediate, and that is why i am in favour of channelling european funds to the most socially and environmentally responsible companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to simplify administrative procedures at european level. this concerns a rapid intervention mechanism to combat vat fraud and tax evasion within the member states. the eu is now able to adopt measures more quickly, although the european commission continues to monitor these actions to prevent abuse.
in writing. in recent years, we have witnessed several large-scale vat fraud cases. such practices must be better combated. that is why i support the creation of a rapid reaction mechanism, which will make it possible to combat fraud attempts in the future quickly and effectively. by simplifying the procedures for this response, it is helping to create a strong europe, capable of responding effectively to fraud of all kinds. this measure will prevent the diversion of billions of euros, which can now be used for the benefit of our economies as a whole.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to reduce tax evasion in the field of vat. with the public finances of many eu member states in the red, the union needs to implement concrete measures to recover the billions of euros that member states lose each year through vat fraud. a strong fight against such fraud will also make the european internal market work more fairly and efficiently.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the european semester, which aims to coordinate ex ante the economic and budgetary policies of the euro area, in connection with the stability and growth pact and the europe 2020 strategy. this will allow for better coordination of european responses at economic level. we will gain in coherence and therefore in efficiency.
in writing. reducing deficits in europe will not be possible without re-igniting the real engines of growth. at this level, the outlook for 2013 may be very bleak. with unemployment rising, investment falling sharply, what future are we collectively preparing for? i think that the balance of this report did not take sufficient account of the increasingly strong recommendations for more flexibility. moreover, in the absence of a european recovery plan for major infrastructure projects, in the absence of an ambitious plan to lift young people out of poverty, i remain convinced that 2013 will once again be a missed opportunity to reorient europe. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − the vote on the annual growth survey was very sensitive. the alde group has voted in favour to give a clear signal: the recognition in the ags 2013 that sustainable growth is needed in strict compliance with the six-pack. the alde group has voted against several amendments: one on the redemption fund as proposed by the greens because conditionality was not sufficient. the alde group has also voted against a certain number of topics that had no place in this report such as the budget. this particular vote does not prejudge the commitment of the alde group for a strong eu budget and a well-conceived redemption fund.
in writing. i voted against this text because i believe that the commission's approach to overcoming the crisis is largely wrong, since it is limited to blindly pursuing the objectives of reducing deficits and accelerating structural reforms. austerity policies have so far only produced destructive effects and are unable to bring growth back. the imf itself recently admitted that it had underestimated their impact. i regret that the european right has rejected the amendments of my group, the alliance of socialists and democrats, which proposed to slow down the implementation of deficit reduction measures. a slowdown would, however, free up up to €80 billion a year to finance recovery and major infrastructure investments to boost growth and jobs. the same is true of eurobonds, which would help to relieve the debt of the states hardest hit by the crisis and to free up room for investment. i also regret the lack of transparency and democratic debate in the european semester, which should involve the european parliament and the national parliaments more.
in writing. the european semester is the direct implementation of the six-pack, to use european jargon. it is the implementation and, in this case, the control by the european parliament of austerity policies with the same leitmotif: the reduction of excessive deficits. the socialist rapporteur (mrs ferreira) asked to have her name removed from the report, as the epp had hardened the text in the plenary. this does not detract from the infernal logic of austerity policies which was also used by the same socialist members in the lope fontagné report. it is no longer possible to ignore that these policies are leading the eu right into the wall, since even some economists at the imf are starting to sound the alarm. more than 8 million people have already lost their jobs since 2008, including 2 million last year. more than 25 million europeans, including 10 million young people, are currently unemployed. more than 25% of the european population now has an income below the poverty line, compared with 17% in 2008. the gue/ngl will continue to reject all these policies in general and to promote alternative policies based on a different distribution of wealth.
in writing. i voted against the elisa ferreira report because it was unacceptable to approve it following the rejection of key amendments by the right wing of parliament. yet these amendments merely underline a reality acknowledged by mrs lagarde's imf, namely that it has underestimated the consequences of the austerity measures imposed throughout europe, which are killing the economy and increasing unemployment and poverty. the attitude of the conservatives and liberals is inconsistent and irresponsible, since parliament is consequently unable to send a clear message to the commission and the council to draw the consequences when they are drawing up economic policies for the coming year. the aim was not to refuse the reduction of public debts and deficits, which is essential, but to adjust the pace of reduction in order to stimulate growth and employment and to avoid plunging a large part of europe into the infernal cycle of greece, due to the dogmatic application of the neoliberal mantra of austerity. simply relaxing budgetary discipline under eu rules would free up €80 billion in 2013 for use in stimulus policies.
in writing. i welcome the message sent by our assembly to encourage states to continue their efforts to control their deficits and reduce their debt. i regret that the greens and the socialists have tried to downplay the need for consolidation of public accounts and have sought to divert the european semester from its primary purpose, which is to ensure that member states' budgets are in line with the stability pact, which they voted for. the euro zone is barely better off than they would be if they were to relax deficit-control efforts. but the fight against deficits is not a whim of eurocrats: on the contrary, it is the essential condition for economic recovery in europe, and the citizens have understood this. the savings we are going to make must enable us to reduce the tax burden which is currently being borne by workers and businesses beyond what is reasonable. this is the only way to restore our competitiveness and to stop the closure of businesses in europe. it is high time the left woke up and realized that letting government spending go unchecked will not lead to economic recovery, quite the contrary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the european semester, which aims to coordinate ex ante european social policies. this makes sense in the face of the crisis and aims to achieve coherence by coordinating member states' policies at european level.
in writing. unemployment is striking europe in exceptional proportions. this is clearly the main battle of the coming months and years. the report first of all gives a fair assessment of the seriousness of the situation, particularly as regards the unemployment of the younger generations. it also provides useful perspective on recipes which have proved effective in many member states. training, development of work-sharing programmes, mechanism for assistance and incentives for re-entry into employment; it is our duty to implement the methods that work as widely as possible. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the rapporteur believes that the political orientation should be to achieve all the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is in this context that i decided to give my voice to my colleague veronica lope fontagné, who draws attention to youth unemployment and the need to strike a balance between fiscal consolidation and measures to promote growth and job creation.
in writing. the annual growth survey is the first step in the european semester, which allows us to better coordinate our budgets and economic policies, for greater efficiency. i particularly support the emphasis on supporting young people, to help them enter or remain in the labour market. this echoes our recent vote to create a youth guarantee. with this vote, the european parliament is committing itself to the young people, to stronger growth.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report which calls on the commission to take account of the impact of austerity on employment and social conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states. similarly, if the europe 2020 goals are to be achieved, economic models need to be redefined so as not to delay future investments such as training, education and lifelong learning. the question of the democratic legitimacy of the european semester is also still unresolved. national parliaments and the european parliament must be more involved in the political orientations of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is a response to a communication from the european commission on the governance of the single market. the european parliament, by voting in favour, supports this initiative and also calls for even more transparency. this requires a more coherent body of legislation, restructured to make it more readable and effective.
in writing. while the single market has a crucial role to play in stimulating growth and employment and has untapped potential, its benefits have clearly not been fully exploited. the european commission has therefore proposed to step up implementation and enforcement actions. i decided to support my colleague andreas schwab, who insisted on closer cooperation between member states and regular assessment of the state of the single market.
in writing. the single market holds great untapped potential for our economies, jobs and growth. however, some of its operating rules are not properly applied or are not applied in time. these obstacles to the success of the single market are holding back the recovery, to the detriment of all europeans. this report is ambitious and makes the right diagnosis. the europe of a europe which needs to go further and act more forcefully to finally achieve its single market. it recommends, for example, that administrative burdens be kept to a minimum, particularly for smes, and that the intelligent use of technology by enterprises be made as widely as possible. these measures are essential and urgent if we are to return to growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for better coordination between member states within the economic and monetary union in order to improve the governance of the single market. with the eurozone in recession again, it is essential that europeans agree on the organisation and decision-making processes within the eurozone in order to pull the continent out of this economic slump. the latest developments have helped to calm the markets' frenzy, but we must maintain the course and move forward to ensure that the euro area remains stable for a long time and that the periods of calm we are experiencing are not just periods of calm before a new storm!
in writing. we voted today in favour of the own-initiative report on the governance of the single market. recognised as one of the main elements in support of growth and employment, the single market must be the basis for the restoration of europe's competitiveness and stimulate sustainable growth. this single market governance cycle should be seen in the light of the european semester, which we have discussed at length in this plenary session, and even integrated into it. it also incorporated amendments i had tabled on the importance of the mobility of citizens, students, professionals and businesses. finally, i believe it is essential that cooperation between the european parliament and the national parliaments in this area should be stepped up to ensure that european provisions are implemented more appropriately, more rapidly and more effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market. the single market is one of the main factors in growth and employment. this is why the correct application of single market legislation is particularly important. however, the lack of transposition by member states and the increasing number of infringement procedures raise concerns. we hope that this report will strengthen the measures to complete the single market.
in writing. the persistence in lining up increasingly widely denounced nonsense and falsehoods is fascinating indeed. how can we still dare to say that 'the increased competition resulting from the integration process is a powerful incentive to offer european consumers a wider range of cheaper and better quality products'? the reality speaks for itself, especially after the widespread breakdown of public services. the ep also calls for a "zero tolerance policy towards member states that do not apply the single market rules properly", the establishment of the necessary mechanisms "for member states to apply the eu's social recommendations", and "reforms to ensure the sustainability of pension schemes". the commission is also proposing to reduce early retirement, reduce labour costs and implement the services directive, known as the bolkestein directive, without delay. i was not surprised to vote against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is an acknowledgement of the importance of the proper functioning of the single market in the annual growth review. it proposes a coherent framework for the governance of the single market, based on objectives and priorities addressed to member states on cross-cutting issues, such as better transposition of single market legislation, or specific issues, such as the services sector, the digital agenda, energy, transport networks and consumer protection. i am also pleased that we have managed to introduce genuine social democratic added value into the text, in particular by stressing the balance between the recovery of growth, competitiveness and employment and social inclusion and consumer protection. we also stress the respect for social rights and the need for a strengthened dialogue with the social partners, and the development of a single market strategy to improve social welfare and workers' rights, rejecting social dumping and ensuring fair working conditions. the single market must be made an opportunity for europe and its citizens, in order to strengthen integration and cohesion between states with and without the euro.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important, as the 22nd session of the united nations human rights council (unhrc) approaches, that the european union continue its action in the defence and respect of human rights. in parallel, it is also a matter of supporting the european parliament delegation to the 22nd session of the unhrc in geneva. the european union is internationally involved in the defence of human rights, and a special eu representative for human rights was appointed on 25 july. the union is concerned about the situation in some countries and regions of the world, notably syria, egypt, the central african republic, mali and the congo. the eu should work more closely with the unhrc on the reintroduction of moratoriums on the death penalty in japan, india and saudi arabia; and the fight against torture. it is important that the union continue to cooperate with other international actors and encourage the commitment of its member states to the defence of human rights.
in writing. i am fully committed to supporting the development of judicial training and coordination in the european union. this is a key objective if we are to develop genuine mutual trust between our legal systems, to enhance their effectiveness and the implementation of european rules. i therefore voted in favour of this report, not least because it contains a number of innovative ideas on how to support such coordination. we must make full use of the existing digital opportunities and not hesitate to develop new ones.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mario mauro, which encourages better institutional cooperation between the eib and other european bodies, as well as greater synergies with existing programmes and funds. on transparency, it encouraged the establishment of an appropriate framework for the monitoring and control of the eib's activities in order to contribute to the fight against corruption. i am of course pleased that this report expresses support for the increase in the capital of the eib, a measure which is not only part of mr hollande's pact but which has also been discussed by european countries for several months (as is the case with several proposals by the french president).
in writing. the european investment bank (eib) is a key tool for our growth, and is set to play a pivotal role in helping europe return to strong growth. i support the clear ambitions of this report, particularly when it considers that its action will have to focus on a number of key areas, including smes and the mediterranean countries. the eib has a role to play both within and outside the european market, reflecting our ambitions for a strong internal market for a europe that shines beyond its borders.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the annual report of the european investment bank. the eib's priorities should be to support smes, entrepreneurship, the social economy and young entrepreneurs. we encourage the establishment of a framework for the supervision and control of the eib's activities in order to increase the transparency of its operation.
in writing. the eib finances investments inside and outside the eu. the eib's executives report to the ep each year on their activities. in 2011, 18% of eib loans went to smes, which were hit hard by the crisis. an instrument dedicated to the cultural, educational and creative sectors has been created and eu policies towards the countries of the south, including those of the so-called arab spring, pass through it. it is better than nothing, but the eib finances itself on the markets and must respect the competition rules, especially in relation to other credit institutions. i'm not going to comment. i also regret that the eu's policies towards the south are essentially based on these lending mechanisms which add to the debt of the countries concerned. the eib is thus tunisia's largest creditor, owning almost 15% of its debt. it should set an example, and why not accept a moratorium on debt repayment, while an audit is being carried out to identify odious debt or at least restructure this debt to the benefit of new investments. like the rest of my group, i chose to abstain.
author. - mr president, sombath somphone has indeed been missing since 15 december. his family, his relatives, big ngos have all expressed their concerns. indeed, videos have revealed that police forces may have been involved in his abduction. the laotian authorities have suggested that the abduction may be linked to a personal conflict. if they want to be taken seriously, they cannot be content with laconic statements. they must conduct a serious investigation into this disappearance which involves, directly or indirectly, the police forces. the european institutions must press for this. mrs ashton's statement is not enough. there are limits to the language of diplomacy. the wto seems to be overshadowing this kind of reaction as negotiations in this area are progressing well. once again, economic concerns seem to be taking precedence over human rights. mr. somphone is an exemplary activist. he was one of the main actors at the forum of the peoples of asia and europe last october. it fights against the confiscation of farmers' land for megaprojects financed by international institutions and companies, including european ones. he's bothering a lot of people. we must not let him down. everything must be done to ensure that he can be returned to his family.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the adoption by parliament of a resolution concerning sombath somphone. his situation is of great concern and has been since his disappearance in december last year. mr somphone is a man of national and also international standing. he is, as we have just heard, the recipient of the ramon magsaysay award, often referred to as the asian nobel prize. he also played a key role in organising the asia-europe people’s forum in the context of the 9th asem meeting in november 2012. we share the concerns expressed in your resolution and will continue to work through all possible channels for his safe return. we will do this by continuous interaction with the lao authorities, strongly calling for the investigation to be stepped up. we are also in close contact with the many equally concerned countries in asia. high representative / vice-president ashton issued a statement on 21 december expressing deep concern and urging the authorities to investigate this case. we have followed up with a démarche, most recently in the context of the local human rights dialogue with laos, in vientiane on 4 february. following a recent visit, mps from asean countries have also expressed their deep concern at the disappointing results of the investigation so far. with every day that passes, our concern grows. strong international mobilisation for mr somphone is crucial, including at un level. we call on the lao authorities to involve mr somphone’s family in the proceedings and to accelerate the investigation. we salute and join this parliament resolution in favour of mr somphone, along with the strong message of support and the call for his safe return to his family. to ms jäätteenmäki, who referred to the need for better cooperation, as far as i am informed, our office on the spot is really reaching out to the other eu member states. furthermore, the démarche that i just mentioned was actually supported by the us, japan, switzerland and singapore. there is therefore a high level of awareness that it is important to cooperate and have the same concerted message between our own member states. in conclusion, the eu will continue to work with laos, supporting its political, social and economic development and integration into the international community, but we very much hope to see mr somphone safe and free very soon.
author. - mr president, we are discussing today a new resolution on zimbabwe. zimbabwe is one of the worst human rights countries in the world. its president, robert mugabe, is a true dictator. no one doubts that. the authoritarian ways of his regime are evident, as is his personal enrichment at the expense of the zimbabwean people. that's been said before. the country is almost bankrupt and is appealing for international solidarity to finance the cost of the constitutional referendum and the next elections. the policy of indigenisation, to use the local language, marked by strong anti-white racism, but of which zimbabweans are also victims, has so far not had the desired results and here again, we know why. it has mostly been used to line the pockets of mr mugabe's friends. police and military repression is rampant and getting worse as elections approach. human rights activists are the first victims of this and it is not new. okay machisa is unfortunately just one of the latest victims of this repression, as are leo chamahwinya and dorcas shereni. we have just voted in january on a resolution on the eu's economic partnership agreement in this region, in view of the situation in zimbabwe. i found her - excuse me, colleagues - a little timid. let's get the goat and cabbage! but it has the merit of calling for the suspension of economic cooperation with that country to be maintained and for the introduction of a mandatory human rights clause. we reaffirm this in this resolution. this is the minimum to really support human rights defenders in zimbabwe. let's all put pressure on the government to release them.
in writing. the human rights situation in zimbabwe is worrying, with the arrest and detention of human rights defenders in recent weeks. despite the establishment of a coalition government in 2009 and the creation of a human rights commission, arbitrary arrests and disappearances of human rights defenders have increased. faced with the inability of the human rights commission to work in a neutral and independent manner, its chairman, professor reg austin, resigned last december. the european union and the international community must act urgently as the next elections and constitutional referendum approach. laws restricting fundamental rights must be amended as soon as possible, and the judiciary and police must be able to work in a neutral and independent manner. finally, the european commission must rapidly review its strategy, given the absence of a mandatory human rights clause in the economic agreements with zimbabwe.
author. - mr president, in pakistan the fight against polio is a dangerous one. this country is one of the last three countries in the world, along with nigeria and afghanistan, where the disease continues to be endemic. after a deterioration between 2007 and 2011, significant progress was made in 2012, with the number of patients falling by two thirds. the government has been involved in the struggle but it is facing strong resistance, especially from religious groups. vaccines are blamed for all ills and the murder of those who are fighting against this scourge is unbearable. the majority of them are women, and it's no coincidence. they need to be protected. we can only applaud their courage and support the ngos working in this field by all means, including by contributing to the development of health education campaigns.
mr president, i hesitate to speak because i have spoken on this subject so many times. we shall be debating the next european councils on wednesday and we shall also be debating a resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 7 and 8 february. my question is simple: has president van rompuy been invited? if so, is he the one who refuses to come? i think that wednesday morning would have been particularly appropriate: his presence would have allowed us to discuss with him the conclusions of the european council of 7 and 8 february and to get his opinion on the council of the following day. i would therefore like to express my regret that i saw in his agenda that he would not be here that he was absent; but i want to know if we didn't invite him or if he refused to come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming months we shall be discussing the question of railway reform in europe. on paper, it is always the same: the european commission proposes reform, with the sole aim of obsessively opening up the market by liberalizing the system. however, if we are to succeed in reforming railways in europe, we must first integrate two dimensions which are currently absent from the commission's guidelines. first, it is imperative to invest in developing quality infrastructure in all the member states of the european union. this requires support for an ambitious european budget with the means for future investment. but it is not. the council, at the last summit on the 2014-2020 budget, cut the budget for infrastructure by around €10 billion. secondly, it is necessary to invest in a common social base for all railway workers in europe, to ensure decent working conditions for them. my group will not make concessions on these issues. otherwise europe will turn against its citizens and open the way to all kinds of populism.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on development, the commission and our partners in civil society for the valuable contribution they have made to this text. the 11th edf is in a special context as it will be the last under the cotonou agreements. it also comes at a time when the union is undertaking a major reform of its development policy. finally, the 11th edf will be launched as 2015 marks the redefinition of global development goals. on this last point, i note that with less than two years to go, many of the objectives are unlikely to be met. the figures are there to prove the scale of the challenges to be met, since at the moment we are talking about 1.4 billion people, or about 20% of the world's current population, living in extreme poverty. more than 2.6 billion people lack access to sanitation and about 1 billion lack access to safe drinking water. and chronic hunger affects more than 800 million people, most of them in sub-saharan africa. that is why, like the icd, our parliament wants at least 20% of the funds of the next acp edf to be used to meet basic social needs such as health, education, access to water and sanitation. in view of this, we cannot but deplore the amount of the edf budget as decided by the council a month ago. we therefore hope that the need for flexibility and mid-term review, which our assembly calls for in the next multiannual financial framework, will also allow the edf to be upgraded by 2017. budgeting has become a necessity, not only for obvious reasons of democratic control, but also to enhance the visibility and coherence of the union's external actions. the commission must therefore stop procrastinating and present a clear roadmap detailing a timetable for the budgetisation of the edf after 2020. this context of severe budgetary constraints should encourage us to move as quickly as possible towards the introduction of innovative financing. the financial transaction tax recently adopted by the eleven member states is to become a source of revenue for development aid. fortunately, there are other ways to strengthen our commitment to developing countries. the agenda for change has provided some ideas, including support for the private sector and the mix of loans and grants. as regards the private sector, we want the resources of the 11th edf allocated to it to be used as a priority to support local enterprises in order to bring know-how to the fore in the acp countries. otherwise, there is a great risk of promoting development and growth that would be neither sustainable, nor inclusive, nor balanced. for the loan/donation mix, the 11th edf will have the investment facility mechanism, the ceiling of which has been increased substantially compared to the 10th edf. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and regardless of their level of development. i think that's very important. while these countries have an interesting way of presiding over their own development, they are also home to the majority of the world's poor. that is why we must stand with them as they make the necessary transition to reduce inequality in a lasting way. i am therefore convinced that community development aid can still add value in certain middle-income countries in specific areas, such as tax reforms or the establishment of social security systems. these countries are of vital diplomatic importance to our international objectives, for example in the fight against climate change.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on the 11th european development fund. it is important that the european parliament recalls its priorities for the 11th edf, since it finances the european union's actions in the acp countries and, in part, also in the overseas countries and territories. in this report we call for the budgetisation of the edf, for better appropriation by the recipient countries, for the member states to respect their commitments to allocate 0.7% of gdp to development aid and for aid to be more effective through joint programming and thematic concentration. in a difficult budgetary context, it is crucial that our aid to the acp countries is as effective as possible, but it is also crucial for our credibility at international level that the edf amounts meet all the challenges.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current overseas association decision (oda) of 2001 linking the overseas countries and territories to the european union expires at the end of this year. the renewal of this association framework became indispensable, as the regional and international context in which the overseas countries and territories operate has changed considerably. the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges and the risks of climate change are all new issues that they are facing directly. long before overseas countries and territories are made relays of eu development policy, it is important to ask the question of the challenges linked to the development of these territories themselves. due to their physical characteristics, the octs face a number of challenges linked to the fragility of their environment and the need to firmly anchor the environmental pillar of sustainable development. this is why the revision of the dao for the period 2014-2020 was undertaken with a view to realism and put the notion of partnership at the heart of the text. i would also like to stress that this new dao has been the subject of intensive preparatory work, since the reflection was launched in 2008 with a wide public consultation, via a green paper which led to a commission communication in 2009 and the signing of a common position document between member states and the octs two years ago. finally, as you know, the committee on development also contributed to this reflection by organising a hearing on the octs last september. overall, i am particularly pleased that the future eu-oct partnership marks a significant change of direction, moving from an approach based mainly on poverty reduction to a development framework that is truly adapted to the specific needs of the octs. nevertheless, certain points need to be examined in depth if this association is to be firmly oriented towards the future. the first point concerns the four priority objectives of the dao proposal. the commission proposes, in sum, few lines of action to implement the first objective of increasing the octs' competitiveness. as octs' competitiveness can only be based on low costs, innovation and entrepreneurship are essential to meet the challenges they face. in addition, areas of cooperation for sustainable development could include competitiveness and refer to community programmes on innovation, research and enterprise. the second part of the dao proposal could include provisions to improve oct participation in these programmes, develop operational local information relays and facilitate oct membership of networks such as the europe-enterprise network. we also know how important trade issues are for those regions which are highly dependent on community markets. the union's trade policy has also led to a gradual erosion of the octs' tariff preferences, which puts them in direct competition with third countries with lower production costs. finally, the commission does not go far enough on the question of rules of origin, although it intends to make it easier for oct companies to access eu markets and continues to treat better certain acp island countries such as mauritius or the seychelles, whose exemptions from the rules of origin are automatically renewed, which is not always the case for the oct. another point which seems to me to be essential is the simplification of procedures to ensure the best possible implementation of the 11th edf. beyond the legitimate challenge to the financing of the octs through the edf, the provisions of the implementing regulation of the dao will have to take account of the institutional links between the octs and their member state of attachment, as well as the existence of strict public management rules guaranteeing the safe use of the edf by the octs.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and collaboration on the report on the overseas association decision. this is the first time that the european parliament has spoken on the relations between the european union and the overseas countries and territories, and i am pleased as an oct mep. in addition to the question of the creation of oct-specific financial instruments which would respond more effectively to the challenges facing the octs, i would also like to stress the new paradigm which the commission proposes to develop in the context of the new overseas association decision. this is a major step forward and it should be emphasized. the aim of the partnership with the oct is no longer the fight against poverty, as is the case in the acp countries, but the development of competitiveness or the regional integration of the oct. one of the important points of this report is the establishment within the various dgs of a oct reference point which should enable the oct to be better taken into account in the community programmes in which they can participate. this is a major breakthrough.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, obtaining redress for a consumer after a dispute is a fundamental right, but it is also a condition for him to be confident, to keep the economic machine running, which we need in these times of crisis and in all our countries. but going to court under any circumstances is a cumbersome, intimidating, and lengthy procedure that frightens many. that is why, thanks to these texts, which we are going to vote on today, i am sure that all mediation procedures will become more widespread, thanks to arbitrators, conciliators and mediators. this, without depriving the consumer of the right to go to court if he really wishes to do so, allows for quick win-win agreements, i.e. without necessarily implying that one party is wholly at fault and the other party is free from all liability. but while it is guaranteed that these legislative texts are clear as regards the powers, independence and impartiality of ombudsmen, we will nevertheless have to remain very vigilant in the future application of these provisions. first of all, all consumers must be properly informed of the new rights they will have. but for this to happen, the professionals, and in particular the smes themselves, must be prepared. it will be a major effort to provide and the mobilization will have to be general. it will be necessary to ensure that the information is clear and is clearly displayed on the trader's website or in the general conditions of sale. it will then be necessary to ensure that the establishment of mediators, where there are none at present, does not come at the expense of the quality of what one legitimately has to expect, and that care is taken to avoid any conflict of interest. the internet platform, which will have to be created to allow these mediations to be processed online, will also have to be very accessible, particularly through the 'europe is yours' portal, as mrs thun said. this will be an important task for your services, commissioner, as you yourself have said. finally, i welcome the fact that in the member states where there are internal ombudsmen - in france, for example - they are fully recognised. we shall now strengthen the criteria in these texts to ensure that they are truly independent and impartial.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, last october it was announced that the european union had been awarded the nobel prize for bringing peace to our continent. we can be proud of the achievements of the european union. it has brought peace, stability and prosperity – all on the basis of freedom, democracy and rule of law. but we should never be complacent about our achievements. the fact that we need to organise a europe-wide week against racism is a clear indication that europeans still live under the shadow of discrimination, prejudice and aggression. the council stands firmly alongside this parliament in rejecting all forms of racism, xenophobia and homophobia. these are violations of the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu’s charter of fundamental rights prohibits all discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, ethnic origin and religion or belief. furthermore, the treaties provide the union with the competence to take appropriate action to combat such discrimination. all the institutions of the eu must stand shoulder to shoulder in defending fundamental freedoms and fighting all forms of discrimination. we can never rest until the scourge of discrimination has been completely banished from our societies. let me first address the situation in which we find ourselves today. sadly, as fresh research published by the fundamental rights agency has shown, discrimination in europe is far from being a thing of the past. lgbt persons, ethnic minorities, including jews and roma, and other groups continue to face prejudice, discrimination, harassment and worse. it is unacceptable that europe in the 21st century should still be a witness to homophobia and to racist attacks against jews, roma and others. i commend this parliament for keeping this issue high on the agenda. in your resolution of may last year you called for more determined action and referred to specific concerns in some third countries. i also recall your recent report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2010-2011), which paints a disturbing picture and which also rightly calls for further action. this leads to my second point – what is the eu doing? the treaties provide the union with a number of powers, and these have been used successfully to introduce a range of legislation. the council has in particular taken steps to protect european citizens from all forms of racism and xenophobia. the council’s framework decision of 2008 ensures that such behaviour constitutes an offence across all member states. amongst other provisions, it requires member states to criminalise public incitement to violence or hatred directed against persons belonging to a group defined by reference to race, colour, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin. it also demands that such conduct be punishable by effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal penalties of at least between one and three years imprisonment. more generally, the eu has taken a number of measures for tackling discrimination. the legal protection which the eu offers to racial and ethnic minorities is already fairly broad, covering employment, social protection, healthcare, education and access to goods and services. we have also taken steps to combat discrimination in the workplace on the grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. president, honourable members, allow me to conclude by addressing the issue of what more might be done. we already have extensive legislation in place, and more legislation is under discussion on protection against discrimination in areas outside of employment. in addition, member states have their own domestic laws covering these areas. but the reports from the fundamental rights agency clearly show that the adoption of legislation is not in itself sufficient. it also has to be implemented and properly enforced and we also have to raise awareness. events such as the action week against racism play a vital part in keeping these issues in the public eye and so bringing abuses to light. all of us have a role to play in this regard – and i know that this parliament in particular takes these responsibilities very, very seriously. the european union should be encouraging the development of a society based on equality, tolerance and respect for human rights. those are the values on which it is founded. bigotry and discrimination have no place in the europe of the twenty-first century. the nobel prize was a way of honouring the european union. let us live up to the ideals which it represents. it is in that spirit that the irish presidency put the question of hate crimes on the agenda of the informal meeting of justice and home affairs ministers in dublin in january. this subject is at once very focused – concern about the growth in xenophobia, anti-semitism, homophobia and other extreme forms of intolerance and how to take effective action at national and at eu level to combat these evils – and very broad, in that it touches on fundamental questions about the rule of law and the effective functioning of political and public institutions in the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens. a specific theme of the discussion by ministers was that the solution is not just about legislation, but about getting into the minds of people and encouraging positive attitudes. the irish presidency suggested that a mechanism to better support protection of fundamental rights and the rule of law in member states, by sharing best practice, benchmarking practice and outcomes in an objective way and formulating appropriate recommendations and guidelines for action, would provide such a holistic framework for effective responses to these issues. jha ministers agreed to invite the commission to give further consideration to this matter and to initiate a broad public debate taking account of the commission’s annual report on the eu charter of fundamental rights with governments and public institutions in member states, to include national human rights and equality bodies, civil society etc. so as to raise awareness and understanding of the importance of the rule of law, common values and protection of the fundamental rights of all in europe. the commission will then come back during the course of 2014 with the results of this process. the fundamental rights agency has a very important role to play in providing expert and independent analysis in this process.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, it is important that parliament raises these matters because we all know that recent reports by the fundamental rights agency show that racism, xenophobia and hate crimes remain a matter of concern all over europe – and it is not just the fundamental rights agency which tells us this, as we read about it constantly in the media. many of the hate crimes, we know too, remain unreported, meaning they are not prosecuted and that those who commit them are not punished. so the problem is even greater than we can see. that is why i am very grateful to my colleague alan shatter who, to start the irish presidency, held a gathering of the justice ministers in dublin in january this year in order to discuss the problems of racism, xenophobia and hate crimes, anti-semitism, islamophobia, anti-gypsyism and homophobia – all those manifestations which are completely incompatible with european rules and with the basis on which europe is founded. we have had for many years now a solid framework to address these hate crimes at eu level. the commission monitors the transposition and implementation of this eu legislation, which prohibits discrimination and hate speech and hate crime. i will report on the application of the race equality directive and the employment equality directive, as well as on the transposition of the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. you know too that the commission, together with parliament, always insists that the equal treatment directive – the so-called article 19 directive – should be taken in hand by the council but progress is slow, if not to say non-existent. as you know, the council has to adopt this text by unanimity; nothing is moving on this. in addition to legislation, of course, the commission lends its support to a number of activities to prevent acts of intolerance and also to remember our common past, because only if you know the roots on which you are growing can you prevent things from happening again. the commission supports activities aimed at preserving the memory of the mass violations of human rights during the period of nazism and stalinism. under the new citizenship programme of 2014-2020, i have proposed an increasing amount of financial assistance to be provided for remembrance projects. i hope it will remain in place, so i appeal to parliament to have a look at this because i believe it is important for our next generation to know the horrors on which europe has been built, in order for these horrors not to happen again. you know also that the fundamental rights agency is crucial for the collection of data on hate crimes and that our roma integration work is crucial in order to prevent more and more negative developments from happening. may i inform you that the national roma contact points are in place to ensure that national strategies are implemented. a progress report on these national strategies will be given to this house in the spring. jointly with this report, i am working together with the experts to come up with – and i have not told you this yet but think it is necessary to take this step – a council recommendation in order to open new avenues to improve the effectiveness of measures by member states to achieve roma integration in real terms and not just on paper. concerning hate crime: you know that we have the 2008 council framework decision on racism and xenophobia. this is our central tool in fighting hate crimes. it requires all member states to penalise hate speech and to ensure that a biased motivation for any other offence is taken into account in the severity of the penalties. this is european union law. but laws are only as good as the extent to which they are enforced and implemented in practice. the treaties prevent the commission from launching infringement procedures in respect of this type of eu law, because it is a framework decision and it will be a framework decision until 1 december 2014. nevertheless, the commission will put a report on compliance by member states with this eu law on the table at the end of this year. this house also knows that we have completed the victims’ rights directive, which gives victims of crime a broad set of procedural rights, including access to justice, compensation and restoration. particular attention is paid to the special categories of victims of hate crime. so these instruments – that is the european protection order which was decided by the council last week and which will become law very soon – provide for the mutual recognition of protection measures when victims move to another country. this will also be of utmost importance in fighting those kinds of crimes. racism, xenophobia and hate crime are a common concern to the whole of the eu. no member state can boast a clean record when it comes to these crimes. fighting these crimes requires both preventive and corrective action and i thank parliament for helping us to ensure that this happens in real terms.
madam president, a racist act, a xenophobic act, a hate crime is not just a crime or an ordinary crime; it is a double-pronounced and unjust act. unfortunately, this is still a reality far too much in europe. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. let us not give in to the old demons of withdrawal and scapegoating so easily invoked in times of crisis. there is an undeniable and indisputable reality of attacks on individuals because of their supposed membership of a community, ranging from hate speech to simple, but equally cruel, discrimination when looking for housing or employment, to repeated and abusive checks. we can applaud the unwavering commitment of associations and ngos which continue to confront us with this reality, which is too often forgotten, as is done, for example, in france, by licra, sos racisme, and other ngos throughout europe and even the world. the european union has, for example, been involved in the work of the fundamental rights agency, and that is a very good thing. we have a collective duty to denounce these racist and xenophobic acts and all discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation, and we ourselves, in particular, as politicians, to be irreproachable in our words and to recall the infallible equality of rights of every citizen. more active promotion of tolerance should be encouraged, in particular through family and school education, from an early age. it is also essential to collect more reliable data that allows us, beyond a few troubling facts that are reported, to better understand the evolution and reality of racist, xenophobic and hate crimes. finally, special support must be given to victims, to encourage them to denounce the acts and discrimination they are subject to and to protect their rights. if they know that they will be heard and that proceedings will be initiated, the acts will be reported more often. that is how justice and our societies will advance. this is what nicolas sarkozy has done in france, for example, by instituting the "rights defender". it is a unique institution which protects the rights and freedoms of each individual and upholds the equality of citizens. this is the principle that should guide all our actions, for "living together" must prevail over hatred. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs mathieu, you just gave us a very nice speech against hate. i just want to know if, with this speech, you are denouncing the remarks of nicolas sarkozy against the roma community in 2010.
answer is "blue cardboard". mr nicolas sarkozy has not made any hateful statements against the roma community.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, violence based on the rejection of the other, of those who are different or who are perceived as different, remains a daily reality in the european union. the migrants, the roma, are the main victims, but they are not the only ones. antisemitism is still there, and islamophobia. mrs reding, i thank you for daring to say that word, contrary to our resolution. many other groups are affected, including homosexuals, the disabled, and of course women, who make up the majority of the population. it is difficult to know the reality of the figures, since the statistical tools vary from one country to another. in fact, in these surveys, the countries with the most impressive numbers are those with the best tools and best enforcement. this is the case in germany. we all know that in this period of social and political crisis, some people are playing on fears, including at the highest political level in some member states. nicolas sarkozy was the sad example. we can still talk about european values, we can rush to collect the nobel peace prize, but all this is ridiculous if we are unable to fight against hate crimes. the irish presidency wants to put this back on the agenda. that's good. we expect the commission to react, to act, in particular by proposing the signing of the un convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination and to do everything possible to ensure that the equality directive is adopted and applied. the council's attitude in this area is intolerable. i would add that prevention and education must be the priorities of any policy on the subject and not just memory. children don't know hate, it's adults who lead them down this sad path.
mr president, the difficult climate we are living in today is that of a europe under the pressure of blind austerity, marked by the breakdown of the social bond. racism, xenophobia, and hate crimes are thus finding fertile ground and feeding grounds for an alarming increase. our values - those of democracy, solidarity and tolerance - are under threat. hate speech is constantly creeping into the heart of mainstream political movements, uninhibited and surfing on the fears of the most vulnerable to extract electoral successes because, alongside visible violent extremism, we also have to respond to all the remarks, allusions, mockery and other phrases that are insidiously spread on a daily basis, especially through social networks. if we do not change our knowledge and our reactions to these phenomena, we will be allowing a guilty inertia to take hold. i regret that mrs weber, who was referring earlier to the situation in france with regard to the roma, has left, because i would have liked to raise her level of knowledge of what is happening in france with regard to this community, because she has obviously missed an episode. in the last two tools for recognising such discrimination, victims must have access to a complaints system that they trust and which leads to action. finally, i call on the member states to unblock the proposal for an anti-discrimination directive and to step up their efforts so that we can turn words into action, because, while much has been done, there are still many wishes to be fulfilled.
madam president, on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i would like to express our very serious concern at the hasty adoption yesterday by the hungarian parliament of a series of amendments to the constitution whose compatibility with the fundamental principles and law of the european union is not assured. the same concern was expressed by the council of europe and the commission, and the same concern is evident among the hungarian people. we request that the relevant parliamentary committee the committee on civil liberties, justice and foreign affairs be immediately seized to examine this amendment to the hungarian constitution in the context of the report on the situation of fundamental rights: standards and practices in hungary, in accordance with the european parliament resolution of 16 february 2012. we also expect an assessment by the venice commission of the compatibility of these amendments with the echr, as indicated by the presidents of the european parliament and the commission. (applause) i would like to thank
(without microphone) ... the president of each plenary session to decide on the change of the agenda.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, this chamber has just voted on the correia de campos report, and i would like to make the following declaration on behalf of the commission. first, the commission welcomes the agreement reached with the council, as well as the adoption of the correia de campos report, and we look forward to an early conclusion of this file. however, as regards the eligibility of projects of common interest for eu financial assistance in the context of trans-european energy infrastructures, the commission would like to state that it considers it important that the support from the eu and national sources extends to grants for works to enable the implementation of projects of common interest, enhancing the diversification of energy supply sources, routes and counterparts. the commission reserves the right to make proposals in this direction based on the experience gained from the monitoring and foreseen in article 16 of the regulation on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructures.
president of the state of israel. − mr president, my dear friend martin schulz, distinguished members of the european parliament – of this great house of freedom and peace, that has changed the history of europe and affects the future of the entire world – i want to thank you for the privilege of addressing you. it is, for me, an important opportunity and it is a meaningful occasion for the people of israel. i stand here before you with burning memories in my heart and great hope in my soul. i carry profound pain concerning the past, and i look with great confidence to the future. i immigrated to israel in 1934, at the age of 11. in 1942, most of the inhabitants of my town were burned alive. had my family delayed their emigration by eight years, we would have been exterminated. a year before the creation of israel, in 1947, i was recruited to the haganah headquarters. since then, israel has been attacked seven times in 65 years of existence. we were outnumbered and outgunned. we had just one choice before us: to win or to die. i also participated in the confrontation of another enemy – the desert. we won. we made the desert bloom. i have many memories, but i carry many dreams as well, and i did not come to reminisce. i have come to continue my dreams. people age. dreams are ageless. we changed. europe changed. i come to express our admiration for the changed europe. europe picked itself up in the wake of the worst war in history. it divorced the past, it created a new europe. you converted the divided europe of the last thousand years into the united, modern europe of today. you replaced military camps with scientific campuses. europe which knew racism now considers it a crime. i know that you are facing an economic crisis, but your skies are without the clouds of war. a european country introduced the nobel prize. now, a united europe has rightly won it. europe corrected its mistakes and is building a better world. for us, the europe of shoah is now becoming the europe of support for our renaissance. friends, the idea of the rebirth of israel was born on european soil. in the past thousand years, more jews lived in europe than in any other continent in the world. alas, more jews were murdered in europe in the last hundred years than in the preceding 2000 years. we experienced here the worst tragedy of our history. here, at the same time, we dreamed an impossible rebirth. six million – a third of our people – were murdered here by starvation, gas, rifles and fire. what remains from them is ashes. we shall not forget that the righteous among the nations – your people – carried candles of light in the darkness. they were small in number, but great in heroism. israel was born from those ashes at the end of the second world war. if somebody had stood up then and said that within three years a jewish state would be created, he would have been considered a delirious visionary. but this dream became a reality, and i have to add that if somebody had stood up on the same day, and said that in six short years a new united europe would be born, with borders erased and barriers lowered, he would have been considered an author of fiction. six countries signed the treaty of paris and became a community of 27 nations across europe. our relations here and now are a dialogue between two miracles: your miracle and our miracle. israel enjoys an association agreement with europe and close ties with the european union in nearly all fields. i have come to thank you for your friendship, based on common values, geographic proximity and a long history. politically, israel is a western democracy with a mediterranean experience. religiously, israel is the cradle of the three monotheistic religions. scientifically, israel is advanced, even by european standards. israel is small: just one thousandth of the area of the middle east. its soil, typically for the middle east, is barren rather than fertile. water is scarce. we have just two lakes, one dead, the other dying. we have a single river – the jordan – rich in history, poor in water. the land is rich in archaeology and poor in natural resources. the only natural resource we have discovered is human potential. israel is an example of a country where the people have enriched the land more than the land enriched the people; where the devotion of the people and the merits of hi-tech forced deserts to surrender and to bloom. we went through seven wars, and we won them. but when peace became possible, we returned all the land and all the assets which we had won during the war to the countries that we made peace with: egypt and jordan. we started a peace process with the palestinian people, which enabled both of us to build a palestinian authority. then – and people forget this – we evacuated the gaza strip. we dismantled 22 settlements and we brought back all the settlers from there. it was an opportunity for the palestinians to build a strip of independence and of peace. unfortunately, they turned it into a terrorist base. we do not know why, but we know it became a setback to the peace process. israel is an island in a stormy ocean. we have to defend our island, and we have an interest in the tranquilisation of the sea. some people claim it will take generations, but europe has proved that great events can be achieved in six years. we live in a new era in which events are moving at the speed of a plane, and no longer at the speed of a carriage. for that reason, i believe peace can be achieved in a relatively short while. the peace process with the palestinians has already produced agreement on the beginning and on the solution. the solution is based on two nations and states: an arab state, palestine, and a jewish state, israel, living in peace and economic cooperation. the remaining disputed issues can and should be negotiated and concluded. peace for israel is not just a strategic choice. it is a moral call which stems from the depth of our heritage. since the exodus, our heritage has condemned slavery and rejected mastery, and all persons are considered to be born equal. our legacy calls upon us to pursue peace. together with my partner, yitzhak rabin, who was assassinated, i laid down the foundations for peace with the palestinians. now it is time to continue and to renew the peace process. we must continue to work with the palestinian authority. we have to support the palestinian economy. together we have to make and complete peace. a palestinian security force has been formed. you and the americans trained it, and now we are working together with it to prevent terror and crime. ladies and gentlemen, our hand remains stretched out to peace with all the countries in the middle east. in a short while, a new israeli government will be formed. it is an opportunity to resume the peace negotiations and to realise the two-state solution. there is no other solution, either for the palestinians or for us. this is not only our preference, it is what the present reality calls for. jordan, israel and palestine find themselves in a similar situation. terror endangers each of them separately and all three of them collectively. collective dangers call for collective security. i have the highest regard for the king of jordan. like his father, he has proved to be a king courageously committed to peace. i have known the president of the palestinian authority, mahmud abbas, for many years. he condemns terror and he is a real partner for peace. europe has been and continues to be a major partner for peace and a major enemy of terror. next week, we will be hosting president obama in israel as a welcome and esteemed guest. his support for our security is extraordinary and his devotion to peace is unshakeable. we are glad that the united states and europe are now working together to support peace and to stop terror. the greatest danger to peace in the world today is the current iranian regime. it became a dictatorship cloaked in a religious mantle, and it developed an impossible imperial appetite. nobody threatens iran: iran threatens others. it endangers the independence of the arab countries. it menaces the existence of the israeli state. it smuggles arms to many countries in order to undermine their stability. the iranian regime denies the holocaust and calls for another holocaust. they are aiming to build a nuclear weapon and they deny they are doing it. a nuclear bomb in the hands of an irresponsible regime is an imminent danger to the entire world. the european union and the united states together drew the conclusions necessary to create a policy to stop that from happening. to this end, you rightly decided to impose economic sanctions. you made it clear that if the iranians will not respond, other options are on the table. in addition to the nuclear bomb, iran is constructing long-range missiles equipped with nuclear warheads. it can reach the far corners of the world, including europe. i believe that, in addition to controlling the production of highly enriched uranium, there is a need to control the means of delivery: to control the production of missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads. khamenei has declared that religion prohibits the production and the use of nuclear arms. why then does he build missile capabilities capable of carrying nuclear warheads? during the helsinki conference which took place in 1975, the united states placed the issue of human rights in the soviet union at the top of the world’s strategic agenda. it was a surprising move and it was effective. it shows that the moral voice is no less important than a diplomatic approach. today, such a call should be addressed to iran. a clear voice must be raised against the violation of human rights by the iranian regime. a clear voice must be raised against a regime that hangs people without bringing them to court; that throws journalists into prison without trial; and that fires live bullets at civilian demonstrators, with no respect for their lives. a clear voice must be raised against a regime that discriminates against women. instead of sharing the oil-generated profits with their own people, they spend them on terror and arms, and endanger people all over the world. enriched uranium impoverishes hungry children. a moral voice will encourage the iranian people in their fight for freedom and their struggle against misery. very soon, elections will take place in iran. the ayatollahs should not be allowed to falsify the results and to frustrate the right of the people to make their own free choice. your voice, ladies and gentlemen, will show the iranian people that the world has not turned its back on them. the present leaders of iran are violating the charter of the united nations, which condemns the violation of human rights and aggression against other nations. yet they are being given the opportunity in the united nations to abuse its platforms. iran supports terrorism throughout the world. its main proxy, hezbollah, carries out terror attacks and threatens the stability of the entire region. the historic sykes–picot agreement between france and england gave birth to modern lebanon – to become a multicultural country where muslims, christians and druze together lived in peace. today, hezbollah, supported by iran, is destroying lebanon. hezbollah is a terror organisation, not a political movement. its members collect missiles. they are trigger-happy. they hide missiles in peaceful towns and villages, and by doing so, they turn them into a war target. hezbollah divides lebanon politically, religiously and ethnically. it has turned the land of the cedar tree into a land of scorched cedars. hezbollah is a state within a state. it is a private army, apart from the national army. it sends soldiers to support the massacre of the bloody dictator in syria, without the authorisation of the government of which it is a member. recently there have been no fewer than 20 terror attempts by hezbollah throughout the world – in india, thailand, georgia, south africa, the united states, egypt and greece, among others. last month, the government of bulgaria, a member state of the european union, identified hezbollah as the author of the terror attack in burgas in which five israeli tourists and one bulgarian citizen lost their lives. cyprus recently arrested a hezbollah terrorist planning a terror attack. distinguished members of parliament, we appeal to you: call terror, terror. save lebanon from terrorist madness. save the syrian people from iran’s proxies. save your citizens and ours from hezbollah. the international community has to designate hezbollah a terrorist organisation, because it is a terrorist organisation. today, terror reaches far beyond its previous limits. recently, terrorists attempted to take over mali. had they succeeded, it would have halted the impressive endeavour of the african continent to recover from its past. one of the highest hopes of all of us is to see the success of the brave attempt by the african people to build a new science-based economy like that in europe. the free world cannot stand by as terror imposes its grip on any part of the world, far or near. it cannot stand by when a massacre is carried out by the syrian president against his own people, his own children. assad recently built a nuclear installation and an arsenal of chemical warheads. the nuclear installation was destroyed in time; the chemical arsenal remains in his hands to this day. it is a terrible danger for the syrian people, for the entire region and indeed for europe. a way must be found to prevent the chemical weapons from falling into the wrong hands. the best option for putting an end to the syrian tragedy might be to empower the arab league, of which syria is a member, to intervene. an intervention by western forces would be perceived as a foreign intervention. the arab league can and should form a provisional government in syria to stop the massacre and prevent syria from falling to pieces. the united nations should support the arab league to build an arab force in blue helmets. dear friends, 18 years ago i came to brussels to sign the association agreement between the european union and israel. i am happy that reality has surpassed our expectations. indeed, an association agreement became a partnership and, before long, the partnership became a friendship. it is on this steady ground that i propose that the european union and israel should cooperate for the benefit of stability and prosperity in the middle east and in other places in the world. israel is described as a ‘start-up nation’. i believe that the whole middle east can become a start-up region. hi-tech incubators can be created all over the region to help people escape poverty. israel is small, so we try to take advantage of our smallness. we have discovered that small countries can become great pilot projects. today, we are trying to build a social model that will bridge the gap between the ‘haves’ and the ‘have nots’. the social gap is a major problem for all, rich and poor. we are looking for a new way to overcome the gap through the democratisation of health, the democratisation of education and the democratisation of communication, and by reducing the cost of food and housing. for the younger generation, this is a burning need. it is nice to be young, but today it is extremely expensive! we intend to improve the human condition, to enable each person to possess the capacity freely to choose their way of life, by entering the secrets of our brains. the brain is the most illustrious instrument in the world. it has enabled us to build artificial brains, yet we are still far from understanding the way the brain functions – our brain. as a matter of fact, we are strangers to ourselves. discovering the mechanism of our brain will enable us to become friends with ourselves and with our fellow men. i am glad that this effort has been accorded new priority and has become a major focus of cooperation between our governments and non-governmental organisations, and between us as individuals. our global world has no global government. it has become almost ungovernable, and we have to look for an alternative. i believe that the future way of governing will rely on three pillars: national governments will continue to be in charge of the husbandry of the national state; global companies will invest in research and development; and individuals will enjoy the capacity to govern themselves by knowing how their brain functions. science today is more telling than politics. it is universal: it is borderless. armies cannot conquer wisdom. police cannot arrest science. i believe that scientific aid to developing countries can enable them to escape poverty. science-based global companies can help change the world. globalisation will end racism, for you cannot be global and racist. it empowers the individual. global companies do not impose their will upon people; on the contrary, they respect the will of their clients. they can provide scientific know-how for growth. they can assist young people to acquire high education and they can create jobs befitting their skills. this may be the best help we can offer to our young people and to the younger generation in the arab world and, this is our hope to answer the challenge of the new age. i have proposed a plan for a joint venture between the european union, national governments and global corporations, to cope in a new way with these challenges, and i know that it requires your support as the european parliament. allow me to count on your understanding and help. by combining europe’s wisdom and israel’s experience, we can overcome tomorrow’s challenges. facing the lack of a global government, we can foster close cooperation between governments and global companies. facing the dangers which threaten the values for which we stand, we shall fight terror – wherever it is – relentlessly. president schulz, jean monnet, the father of the european union, once said: ‘everybody is ambitious. the question is whether he is ambitious to be, or ambitious to do.’ the time has come to do. let us remember that we are as great as the purpose we serve. yes, the challenges ahead of us are daunting, but who better to defy the seemingly impossible than the two miracles i have mentioned? let us join forces, the european union and israel, to fulfil the teachings of our heritage. in the words of my forefathers, let us ‘fix the world’ or, as we say in hebrew ‘tikkun olam’. in the words of jean monnet, i say ‘let us do it!’ let us work together for a better middle east, by a daring europe. let us fulfil the values of our people: peace, democracy, human rights. yielding to no obstacle, and daring the new, we shall be servants of the future rather than rulers of the past. my friends, as i look upon the future of the friendship which ties israel to the european union, i am filled with hope and determination. hand in hand, we shall build a brighter tomorrow for tomorrow’s generation. thank you, and shalom. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
i'm the reporter. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report on the control of radioactive substances in drinking water. in order to ensure consistency in the text and after consulting the european parliament's services and the political groups, i would like to make a technical amendment to amendment no 2 in order to delete the following words: 'after transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments and having regard to the opinion of the committee of the regions'. following the vote, i would thank you, madam president, if you would allow me to speak briefly again to address a message on behalf of the european parliament to the european commission.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, thank you for your conscience and this crucial vote. i would ask the commission, on behalf of the european parliament, to forward this report as amended by the european parliament to the national parliaments and the committee of the regions and to resume the legislative process in codecision. this report proposed by the european commission is a democratic nonsense. all the members of the european parliament in the committee shared my view during the vote in committee and i thank them very much for that. this report concerns the monitoring of radioactive substances in water. this is therefore a public health issue in which the european parliament must be involved. in doing so, the commission is depriving the european citizens of their legitimate right to democratic debate and vote. the question here is not whether we are for or against nuclear power, but whether we are protecting the quality of the water we use every day. and the euratom treaty is by no means a legal basis. the legal basis for co-decision is therefore article 192 of the lisbon treaty.
madam president, allow me to echo what our colleague said because, indeed, the commissioner who is still present here was quite long in his speech, so unfortunately he has diluted the message he was supposed to deliver to this house. but the declaration was a full part of the agreement, so it was very important that this declaration be made in public in this house, during voting time.
in writing. european energy policy must ensure that european citizens have sustainable, secure and affordable energy. in the face of insufficient integration of the internal energy market, the commission has proposed bold lines for the future of this policy, with particular emphasis on competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and decarbonisation. i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of interdependence between states and promotes more concerted, rapid and integrated action by the european union. the eu's energy and climate policy is a great way to boost economic growth through job creation and the investments it underpins. the new regulation thus encourages the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks. in this it defines a moderate number of transeuropean priority corridors and areas covering electricity, gas, oil and carbon dioxide transport networks. the report also calls for the administrative procedures for projects of common interest to be streamlined in order to simplify and shorten them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal to ensure the completion of strategic energy networks by 2020, through energy corridors and priority areas for electricity, gas and other transmission networks. projects which represent this 'common interest' in implementing these priorities will then be eligible for special funding. at present, energy infrastructure works are very slow and expensive. in germany, for example, 100 km of power lines have been built, whereas the target for 2015 was 850 km. however, there are european budgets if the project is labelled a 'project of european interest'. the new rules will thus provide clarity and better access to finance for these major infrastructure projects.
in writing. in voting in favour of the correia de campos report, i want to stress the importance of developing energy interconnections in europe. by strengthening the single market, reducing costs and ensuring energy independence for the european union, this report will have very positive practical implications for european citizens.
in writing. this report will help to accelerate the development of transeuropean energy infrastructures. for our energy security, and for a reliable and affordable energy supply for all europeans, we must now create the infrastructure needed to complete the single energy market. these infrastructures are still too often slowed down by lengthy and costly procedures. the aim of this text is to put an end to these barriers, which are slowing down the establishment of a genuine european energy market. we are promoting transparency and speed in the process through a renewed permit granting procedure. the benefits are clear: for the operators, it is a saving of time, money and efficiency, which will affect their competitiveness in the world market. and the positive effects, in terms of both cost and security of supply, will be felt by consumers and businesses. the text rightly emphasises the costs to the end user. this is a question on which i am particularly concerned.
in writing. i voted against the adoption of this agreement between the council and parliament. the purpose of this text is to define 12 priority corridors for energy supplies between member states. if i can support energy supply infrastructure projects aimed at ensuring greater solidarity between member states and more efficient energy management, i am opposed to the way in which these corridors are adopted, even though they are presented by the commission as 'projects of common interest'. these projects are aimed at speeding up the completion of the internal energy market and are therefore fully in line with the liberalisation of the sector. in addition, the selected projects will benefit from special regulatory treatment by the commission, in particular through so-called rapid authorisations, which will be nothing more or less than to circumvent national procedures considered too long and delaying the implementation of projects. there is therefore also a risk of circumvention of public consultation procedures; the text can therefore also be seen as part of the authoritarian and anti-democratic drift. this text is therefore for me a symbol of what not to do and of the processes that are fuelling the growing distrust of citizens towards the european institutions.
in writing. our union is a union of projects, of which trans-european energy infrastructures are prominent. i am therefore pleased that our parliament has seized the opportunity to create the conditions for modernising our existing network, whose efficiency is hampered by fragmentation, environmental footprint and physical deficiencies. i supported this regulation, which in particular adapts the trans-european energy network to the challenges of the europe 2020 strategy: interconnection, interoperability, energy security, sustainability, economic, social and territorial cohesion. the aim is to achieve a single european energy area based on sustainable, high-quality transnational infrastructures, sources of growth, jobs and competitiveness. there are many needs, especially if you want to deploy infrastructure to support the development of renewable energy, but you have to focus on the most strategic projects, setting priorities that will avoid the waste of public and private funds. this is therefore a major step forward for europe, to the benefit of citizens and businesses. the ball is now in the court of the states, which must cooperate, and of the companies in the sector, which must work with the public authorities. this is essential if we want to have a future energy network and make europe a world leader in energy.
in writing. objectivity and impartiality are two fundamental guarantees of democratic and effective public governance in order to avoid any potential conflict of interest. that is why i voted in favour of this report which calls for the adoption of a general regulation for more efficient administrative procedures in the union. this report calls for lessons to be learned from the european ombudsman's inquiry into the complaint by 27 organisations asking the commission to take account of the negative consequences of the expansion of vienna airport. i strongly support the ombudsman's recommendations that the commission reconsider its approach to the complaint and take appropriate action to redress the errors highlighted by the ombudsman's inquiry. the report therefore calls on the commission to take into account in future 'the obligation on national authorities to ensure that (i) complainants can bring an action and (ii) that action is taken in respect of a manifest conflict of interest in the application of directive 85/337/eec'.
in writing. as a full member of the committee on petitions, i had already voted in favour of this report, which highlights the limitations of the 'environmental impact assessment' during the 1999 extension of vienna airport. the most important point discussed in this case is not the failure to carry out the environmental impact assessment, but the way in which it was carried out ex post facto by the authorities. i agree with the ombudsman when he points out the need for more transparency and dialogue between the authorities and local people in the context of such major construction works with such an impact on the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to clarify the situation at the request of our citizens. the analysis proposed here sheds light on the limitations of existing legislation such as the eia directive. without going into the specific case of vienna airport, this example shows the relevance of a citizen mobilization with the european authorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for rigorous, harmonised and detailed accounting rules for the utcatf (land use, land use change and forestry) sector. the aim is to eventually bring the sector within the european target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, in particular to meet international requirements such as those of the kyoto protocol. we have ensured that the integration of this sector into the eu's wider climate policy does not lead to administrative burdens for member states and the private sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the compromise on accounting rules and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use change and forestry activities. it was imperative for the eu to establish a harmonised legislative framework of accounting rules in line with the decisions recently adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change. this is a strong signal that parliament has sent in the fight against climate change, alongside the horizon 2020 programme.
in writing. we are committed to accounting for our greenhouse gas emissions in the most comprehensive and appropriate way possible. this text specifically addresses activities related to land use and forestry. if we are to meet our obligations to reduce emissions without penalising our farmers and operators, we must ensure that the accounting rules we use are fair and effective. that is the aim of this text, and that is why i support it.
in writing. thanks to this report, the forest is finally recognised as an actor in the fight against climate change; that is why i voted in favour of this text. parliament has abolished an exception to the kyoto protocol on the accounting for carbon stored in wood products. the kyoto protocol considered that cutting down a tree was equivalent to releasing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere in the form of a greenhouse gas. wood products are now counted as storing co2. let's not forget that every cubic meter of wood stores 0.9 tons of co2, not counting the co2 saved compared to other more energy-intensive materials. this text is an example of good european legislation. it complements previous legislation (this sector was excluded when the energy-climate package was adopted in 2009 and was not part of the eu's 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target for 2030), it is the subject of an interinstitutional consensus and it does not create additional obligations for professionals (for farmers or for foresters).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, whose main objective is to progressively integrate land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) into the union's overall climate policy, as it will ensure an appropriate accounting framework while avoiding additional administrative burdens for member states and the private sector. as the accounting of the kyoto protocol commitment varies considerably between member states, improvements were needed to create a level playing field for these sectors.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's proposal to introduce binding accounting rules on greenhouse gas emissions and removals in the forestry and agriculture sectors, which is not customary. i denounce the fact that the parliamentary committee on the environment proposes to exempt companies from any accounting or reporting obligations. i also object to the fact that it tends to exclude forestry from the scope of the directive, whereas this sector represents no less than 70% of the scope. i abstain in respect of the advances but condemn these setbacks.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement between the council and parliament which was reached after very long negotiations. this decision will allow for the partial accounting of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from agricultural activities, land use change and forestry. this will not help unless this is accompanied by the development and implementation by member states of action plans to reduce and better absorb ghg emissions. this is all the more so as the european parliament has asked that the new provisions do not create any new administrative burdens for the sectors concerned, leaving them a fair degree of flexibility. on the other hand, it is welcome that the european parliament has called for transparency and public participation to be ensured. this text is a step in the right direction, also because it gives the eu a mandate to include these ghg emissions in international negotiations on global warming. i voted for it because it is an instrument to put pressure on the member states and to enable concrete action to be taken in the fight against climate change.
in writing. the fight against climate change is an unquestionable imperative of the 21st century: the european parliament has understood this and is working on it, including in this report, which i fully support. up-to-date, reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data are essential to measure the progress of the eu and states towards achieving international targets. this data is fundamental to the development of new, robust and sustainable climate policies. it was therefore time to look at improving the transposition into european law of the commitments made by the european union and the member states in terms of monitoring greenhouse gas emissions. this report proposes progress in this area, by helping member states to implement the necessary climate and energy package. we did not want to extend the scope of application in order to avoid any unnecessary constraints arising from european legislation.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this report, which extends the scope of the commission's proposal and strengthens the various aspects of monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gases.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new mechanism for monitoring greenhouse gases and for reporting climate change information at national and european level. these new provisions are in line with recent un standards. while it has been proposed to extend the scope of the new mechanism considerably, i believe it is better to simplify and harmonise the declarations rather than being too ambitious and rendering the mechanism inapplicable.
in writing. i support this balanced text, which maintains a high level of ambition for our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. it provides a solid basis for the continuation of our policy to combat climate change and for the european union to continue to play its leading role in this field. i particularly welcome the attention paid to a concrete objective for the daily life of european businesses: to reduce the administrative burden on them. our emission reduction targets must not be a hindrance to our growth. in addition, the inclusion of our space tools in the text is also a good thing: our satellite data are essential tools to improve the monitoring of our emissions, and i support the idea in the text that the data provided by gmes/copernicus should be used to the best possible advantage.
in writing. mitigating climate change is a priority. the european union must take active action on the issue of climate change and thus follow up on the international commitments it has made in this area, particularly in the framework of the kyoto protocol. that is why i supported this text, which allows for a revision and improvement of the mechanism for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions. the union is here to support the member states in implementing measures to achieve the objectives set together.
in writing. the new rules adopted today will strengthen the method of accounting for greenhouse gas emissions and the way they are reported by member states. this is a fundamental step forward in ensuring the environmental integrity of the european union's (eu) climate policies. i therefore voted in favour of this report. member states will now have to report annually on their overall climate contributions, which is crucial for the eu's credibility in international climate negotiations. governments will be required to report on policies adopted to meet the eu's long-term climate goals and commitments to reduce emissions by 2050. for the accuracy and integrity of emissions reduction efforts, the omission of the mention of wetlands is regrettable, but the inclusion of cultivated land management in the accounting is a real step forward.
in writing. this text will review the monitoring mechanism and thus improve the existing system in order to better comply with the commitments and obligations entered into by the european union and the member states under current and future international agreements on climate change, to meet the legal requirements arising from the climate and energy package, and to facilitate the development of instruments at union level to mitigate and adapt to climate change. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. i welcome the fact that my colleagues on the environment committee have reaffirmed the eu's commitment to comply with the greenhouse gas emission reductions recommended by the intergovernmental panel on climate change. i welcome the desire to streamline the monitoring system for this necessary reduction and to develop an eu-wide strategy for adaptation to climate change. i regret, however, that this system remains anchored in the dangerous logic of the carbon market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement between the european parliament and the council strengthening the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the context of the union's and member states' internal and international commitments to combat climate change, in particular in relation to the kyoto protocol framework and their support to developing countries. the aim of this legislation is to ensure that the union and the member states meet their commitments to reduce ghg emissions and combat climate change. the union and the member states should therefore, in theory, clearly implement the energy and climate package adopted in 2009. however, it is regrettable that many of the european parliament's requests have not been accepted by the council, such as the reduction of the deadlines for member states to present their low-carbon economy strategies by 18 months or the requirement for additional data from industry and smes. the margin of manoeuvre left to member states which do not fulfil their commitments therefore leaves room for scepticism.
in writing. online dispute resolution is a priority in consumer protection at european level. in order to ensure its effectiveness and ease of use, such online dispute resolution should be fast and inexpensive. the report, which has broad support from political groups, envisages the creation of a platform for settling consumer and trader complaints online. these consumer disputes will be dealt with via a standardised complaint form, combined with a translation service, and will ultimately be assessed by the dispute resolution bodies. i support this report which provides for the implementation of this relevant and useful platform for consumers and businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, roza grafin von thun und hohenstein, which provides for the implementation of an online platform where complaints from consumers and traders can be lodged. they will then be dealt with by the dispute settlement bodies.
in writing. i supported the project to create an online platform for consumer complaints. this platform will allow for a cheaper and faster procedure for all disputes concerning online sales. more and more shoppers are using the internet. the commission will also be able to use the existing legal framework to provide for the possibility of a new legal basis for the application of the rules on the protection of personal data.
in writing. the proposal to create a single online platform will be a major step forward for consumers and traders alike, as they will now be able to turn to a standard form, which will facilitate their procedures and guide them throughout the dispute settlement procedure. the advantage is that it is easy to access and understand. a european platform that will link all national out-of-court dispute resolution bodies will provide simplified procedures for consumers and traders alike. we are putting an end to a system that is too burdensome for consumers, made up of various dispute settlement mechanisms that were supposed to help them in difficulty.
in writing. the growth of e-commerce and the increase in cross-border purchases do not always allow buyers to properly assess the quality of the goods they are purchasing. the creation of a european platform for online dispute resolution is a first step in the necessary securing of this form of trade, which is expected to expand considerably in the coming years. the single web-based point of sale, which is intended to centralise the settlement of consumer disputes, will provide consumers with security by providing an easy and fast means of redress. it will also benefit smes and small traders who do not automatically have the means or administrative capacity to deal with such disputes. available in all 27 eu languages, free of charge and subject to the requirements of online data protection, this tool adequately replaces the old, widespread and incomplete oer mechanisms and accompanies the development of the european digital market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision, which is an essential element in the establishment of the european single market. the regulation is above all a more convenient and much cheaper way for european citizens to make a claim via this internet platform. it therefore seemed logical to me to support this decision, which allows for better protection of the european consumer and is in line with my commitment to support the creation of a single market that meets the idea of our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted for this regulation because it will guarantee the possibility for consumers, everywhere in the european union, to lodge a complaint through cheaper, faster and simplified procedures. the european parliament has succeeded in ensuring that this regulation will apply to all disputes concerning online sales, regardless of where the seller is established, which will effectively protect consumers. the latter will be able to lodge a complaint on an online platform, set up and managed by the european commission, accessible via the your europe portal. in order to save time, all stages of the complaint can be handled online. the online dispute resolution platform will provide a standardised complaint form and will include an online translation functionality.
in writing. i voted in favour of the online dispute resolution for consumer disputes to set up a european platform to serve european citizens. these important texts are a concrete realization of the european project through the single market. online shopping is growing and offers new opportunities for european consumers who increasingly buy products outside their national borders. 30% of consumers have made an online purchase in the last three months. the new eu regulation will create an online platform where a standard form will be available in all eu languages and a guide for buyers to help them find the most suitable solution. the form, accessible via the 'europe is yours' portal, will be processed by the platform and will direct buyers to the most appropriate dispute resolution system. the establishment of a single point of contact is an important tool for citizens to facilitate the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes.
in writing. today, many consumers and businesses are reluctant to buy or sell on the internet because they fear they will not know where to turn if they have a problem. however, the bodies competent to settle such disputes amicably are scattered and incomplete throughout the eu. moreover, while half of them offer consumers the possibility to submit their complaint online, very few allow them to complete the entire procedure there. that is why i voted in favour of this regulation: it provides for the creation of a platform which will offer consumers and traders a single point of contact for the out-of-court settlement of their online disputes, and will enable them to easily find the out-of-court dispute settlement body which is most appropriate to their case. the possibility of completing the entire procedure online via the platform, for those who wish to do so, will also save time for the parties and simplify communication between them. finally, we have provided for the platform to provide an electronic complaint model and digital translation, and for the information exchanged to be protected in accordance with european data protection and privacy rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which guarantees all consumers in the union the possibility of lodging complaints against traders using simple, fast and inexpensive procedures. the extrajudicial settlement of disputes advocated in this report seems to me to be an appropriate instrument for avoiding the traditional judicial procedure, which is often burdensome and bureaucratic for the citizen. the draft directive on out-of-court dispute settlement builds on existing mechanisms in some member states, while aiming to develop this type of recourse more widely in the eu.
in writing. this regulation sets out a set of measures that will enable european consumers to lodge complaints through simplified, faster and cheaper procedures. traders will be required to inform consumers of the odr bodies they depend on and how to contact them. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this regulation.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted legislation making it compulsory to set up dispute resolution mechanisms to resolve disputes between consumers and traders without a court ruling. this is a real breakthrough. one in five consumers had problems with a purchase in 2010, and most of them do not enforce their rights, due to the complexity and cost of legal action and their lack of knowledge of the out-of-court bodies. there are over 750 in europe, not always independent of companies, and not in all regions.
in writing. − j'ai voté en faveur de cette décision, car cette procédure de règlement extrajudiciaire des litiges de consommation est une alternative peu coûteuse, rapide et simple à la procédure judiciaire traditionnelle. il sera en effet beaucoup plus facile pour les citoyens européens de faire appel à cette procédure plutôt qu'à la procédure judiciaire classique, à laquelle il n'est pas toujours facile de s'adapter, du fait de sa complexité, de la longueur des procédures et, parfois, des coûts financiers élevés qu'elle peut engendrer pour les citoyens. partout dans l'union, la justice est confrontée à d'importantes restrictions budgétaires. il est important d'offrir aux citoyens, lorsqu'ils le souhaitent, une alternative leur permettant de trouver une issue plus rapide de leur dossier.
in writing. this text, which complements the draft online consumer dispute settlement, will also make it possible to better protect consumers in the event of a dispute with a trader. they will have quick and inexpensive access to alternative mediation systems to the often lengthy and very expensive trials. while most member states already have systems for out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes, their use by consumers remains complex and therefore uncommon. the text therefore obliges the member states to ensure that there are impartial mechanisms for the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes in all economic sectors.
in writing. i supported this text, which will guarantee that any european consumer who has a problem with a consumer contract will have the opportunity to submit his complaint to an impartial, independent and high-quality out-of-court dispute settlement body. the prospect of a trial is often frightening. our idea here is to enable european consumers to settle their disputes with traders quickly, efficiently and inexpensively outside the traditional judicial channels, whether these disputes are related to goods or services, online or in-store, in the consumer's member state or across its borders. it should be stressed that access to justice is maintained by the directive: the handling of a complaint by an adr body will not deprive the parties of their right to be heard. in parallel, we plan to improve consumer and professional awareness of the existence and operation of these procedures, otherwise the exercise would be almost useless. we have for example made provision for the systematic obligation for traders to inform consumers of the odr bodies to which they belong and to indicate to them how to effectively contact them.
madam president, i voted for this report because i think it is a very good report. this is the first time that the european parliament has spoken on the relations between the european union and the overseas countries and territories and, as an oct mep, i think this is a significant step forward which deserves to be highlighted. in this report we call for a strengthening of the european parliament's powers but also for the establishment, within the various dgs, of the oct reference point, so that the oct can be better taken into account in community programmes in which they can participate. these are important points which i hope the commission and the council will take up.
in writing. i support this report which stresses the need to adapt european aid to the situation of the overseas countries and territories associated with the eu in order to put their economies and societies on the path to sustainable development by increasing their competitiveness and improving regional cooperation and integration. i support this report which stresses the need to adapt european aid to the situation of the overseas countries and territories associated with the eu in order to put their economies and societies on the path to sustainable development by increasing their competitiveness and improving regional cooperation and integration.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr patrice tirolien on trade and cooperation. the octs' central challenge is therefore to put their economies on the path to sustainable development, in particular by increasing their competitiveness and reducing their vulnerability.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the new decision on the association of the overseas countries and territories, which will replace the one in force since 2001. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment, i believe that this decision represents a major asset for the octs, as it should enable them to put their economy and society on the path of sustainable development, while cooperating with their neighbours and taking account of developments in world trade. the amendments which i had the employment committee adopt and which were incorporated in the final text submitted for a vote in plenary enable the proposal for a decision to be improved in the areas of social dialogue, education and the adaptation of skills to the specific needs of the octs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the tyrolean report on the association of the overseas countries and territories (octs) with the european union. i believe that since the adoption of the present association decision the regional and international context in which the octs operate has changed considerably. it was important to me to take account of the changing structure of world trade and the new economic and social problems in the oct.
in writing. in the context of the renewal of the overseas association framework, but also in the light of the 11th european development fund (edf), i support the ambitions set out in this report, which aims to take into account the specificities of the overseas countries and territories (octs). i particularly welcome the emphasis on their competitiveness as a key tool for their sustainable development. bringing our experience and support to the development of innovation, research and entrepreneurship in the octs means giving them the tools for balanced development, as close as possible to their needs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which redefines the decision on association with the overseas territories which expires at the end of 2013. it is essential to support the union's support for our overseas territories, which are essential players in the economy of our territories. the simplification of procedures advocated by this text will meet everyone's expectations of making this association more efficient.
in writing. today, the european parliament has shown its progressive face by welcoming the commission's proposal and going further, with particular emphasis on sustainable management of natural resources, the promotion of renewable energy, investment in employment, and a relentless fight against tax havens. the overseas countries and territories are facing a combination of terrible crises (environmental, social and economic). only a long-term vision will enable a comprehensive response to meet these challenges. by taking account of the consequences of climate change, this report is a first step. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. since the beginning of my mandate, i have worked tirelessly to defend the interests of the overseas countries and territories (octs). it is with this same logic of defending these territories that i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal for a decision on the association of the octs with the european union. convinced that these territories represent real assets for the union as a whole, and that the union should promote their economic and social development, i support the idea of a strengthened association agreement between the eu and the octs. i therefore believe that the identity and specific features of each oct should be better taken into account in this agreement, and that particular emphasis should be placed on the creation of sustainable jobs and regional cooperation between these territories, particularly with their neighbouring outermost regions. i also advocate that the interests of the octs be better taken into account in the trade agreements that the eu enters into with the neighbouring octs.
in writing. as promoters of its standards and values, the overseas countries and territories (octs) are europe's outposts and assets. and they are directly linked to the new challenges facing europe, such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges or the risks of climate change. the current association decision (aoa) of 2001 between the octs and the eu sets out the legal framework for promoting the social and economic development of the octs and their economic relations with the eu. this decision shall expire on 31 december 2013. the renewal of this association framework is essential for the octs. the revision arrangements proposed by the commission last july were already a very good basis. the rapporteur has usefully supplemented them, making them a realistic and ambitious roadmap for the coming years. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i abstained from voting on the report introducing new requirements for monitoring radioactivity levels, not because i rejected the content of the proposal, but because i rejected the chosen legal basis. nuclear safety issues have so far been dealt with under the euratom treaty (intergovernmental approach), while the legal basis adopted for this text is the lisbon treaty (co-decision procedure). by abstaining i have indicated my refusal to see the legal bases being changed in this way.
in writing. although this resolution contains very important elements which i fully support, such as the public health imperative, i nevertheless wished to abstain from voting on it for a very different reason. this proposal should have continued to be legally based on the euratom treaty and not on the treaty of lisbon. the purely technical aspects and the substance contain interesting elements, since the aim is to protect public health by better regulating radioactive substances in drinking water, but the basic change proposed by the green group rapporteur sets a dangerous precedent. it would then risk extending to other aspects of our nuclear independence and subsidiarity. it would be unwise to adopt it without discussing the problems which would arise from such a change in the legal basis.
in writing. in the event of a nuclear accident, some food may be contaminated by radioactive particles in the air. the commission has proposed a text and maximum levels for this, but we think that these thresholds are too high, in accordance with the precautionary principle, and especially for sensitive people such as children or pregnant women. we want to have a say in this important matter and we demand codecision on this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will fight for the democratic determination of activities which may lead to radioactive contamination and the permissible levels of radioactivity. with this resolution, which i supported, we not only tried to improve public information - which must have sufficient information about the risks of nuclear activities in the vicinity - but also reviewed and changed the radioactivity standards, taking into account natural and artificial radioactivity and the type of population likely to be affected, especially sensitive and critical people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because, in accordance with the precautionary principle, it is essential to use the scientific knowledge available to protect the health of the consumer, always taking into account the most vulnerable. i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the protection of the european consumer in the matter of drinking water and the radioactive substances that may be present in it. greater transparency on the quality of water consumed is required and as such, information on water quality, risks, and corrective measures must be easily accessible. in parallel, if certain parameters that serve as indicators of water quality are not respected, the state will have to take rapid measures to determine the cause, assess the level of risk, and initiate action to ensure the distribution of water. finally, member states should put in place monitoring programmes to check the quality of water on a regular basis.
in writing. a proposal for a directive on radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption was needed to complement the 1998 drinking water directive. the latter did not take into account a number of substances which are hazardous to health, such as tritium. the report by mrs rivasi corrects some essential points in the commission's proposal. the directive took as acceptable dosage limits not those for the most vulnerable, such as children, but those for adults. moreover, there is indeed a need to distinguish better between natural and artificial sources of radioactivity in order to ensure better control and better possibilities for long-term solutions. the report also criticises the fact that the directive is based on articles of the euratom treaty which do not allow the european parliament to be involved in co-decision with the council (the so-called ordinary legislative procedure). this is only an opinion. so this report is going in the right direction, which is why i voted in favour.
madam president, i voted against this report because the two-pack is locking the people of europe into a winter of austerity which will lead to ever greater unemployment and misery. so lower wages and pensions, higher taxes for the middle classes, and reduced social spending should lead to an improvement in our living conditions. what a foolishness! austerity benefits only the rentiers of finance, austerity, as in the 1930s, can lead to fascism. the american paul krugman, nobel prize winner in economics in 2008, who is not a communist, calls on european leaders to break with austerity and not to repay a public debt that is illegitimate and artificial. let's do as the icelanders did: refuse to pay back the tens of billions of illegitimate debts, nationalize the banks and jail the bankers responsible for the crisis for financial crime. while the rest of europe is in recession, iceland, which is being blamed by european leaders, is growing by 2.7%, driven by a rise in job creation. yes, we need an icelandic spring!
in writing. after more than a year of interinstitutional negotiations, the two-pack finally complements the stability and growth pact for the euro area countries adopted in 1997. this report promotes the deepening of economic and monetary union in order to deal with the economic and financial crisis affecting the european union today. in this context, the union has adopted procedures for budgetary and economic surveillance of the member states. the coordination of economic and social policies between states must respect a number of principles, such as responding to the democratic principles of the union and taking account of all the objectives and basic texts of the eu. the european parliament has therefore called for more democratic control over the interventions of the commission and the 'troika' (commission, ecb and imf). i voted in favour of this report, which was prepared by my colleague, mr jean-paul gauzès.
in writing. i voted in favour of the two-pack on economic governance. at a time when the member states are being asked to reduce their deficits, we have given the commission new powers to monitor the budgets of the euro area countries, under the control of the council and parliament. monitoring will be carried out in particular through the introduction of a 'european semester', a six-month period during which the commission will assess the budgetary objectives of the member states and help them to put in place sound budgetary policies. however, care must be taken that the budgetary efforts required of member states in difficulty are not at the expense of growth and employment.
in writing. i welcome the progress we have made in the two-pack. finally, proposals dating back to the report of the 'crisis' committee are back: the setting up of an expert group on the partial mutualisation of debt - in the form of a depreciation fund - and on 'eurobills'; proposals to provide the euro area with budgetary capacity to help countries in difficulty overcome their structural problems; proposals on the deduction of productive investment from the calculation of government deficits; the commission's commitment to combating tax fraud and tax evasion is stated in the declaration. as with the financial transaction tax, we were right too soon. the right, with its record, must be humble.
in writing. we now have new common preventive tools to dissuade member states from accumulating debts, to better monitor those benefiting from an aid programme and to better guard against the risk of contagion of financial difficulties from one member state to the whole euro area. beyond this accountability, the 'two-pack', which would have benefited from a more readable name, will make possible the solidarity that is indispensable today between the eurozone states when it comes to preventing the risks of financial and budgetary instability that can have serious repercussions on the whole union. another important step forward was the commission's commitment to set up a group of experts to analyse the feasibility of a partial pooling of part of the national debts of the eurozone via a european sovereign redemption fund and the creation of short-term bonds (eurobills). we've been calling them for a long time. finally, the union's budgetary surveillance activities will be subject to democratic control: the european parliament will now have a say in the activities of the troika and in the renewal of the commission's surveillance powers. this gives democratic legitimacy to decisions which have been taken for too long in the back of an intergovernmental chamber.
in writing. after a long and difficult negotiation, an agreement was reached on the two-pack of economic governance for the euro area. because we judge the consequences of austerity policies to be catastrophic for the peoples and economies, we have fought to change these two texts. the budget cuts will have to save investment for growth, the timetables for reducing deficits will be relaxed in the event of a severe recession, the commission will be subject to better scrutiny by the european parliament and national parliaments, and work will be carried out on debt mutualisation. these are steps in the right direction and i have therefore supported both texts.
in writing. parliament also adopted the two-pack of texts definitively during this part-session. these are regulations that strengthen budgetary surveillance within the euro area and the european union. by introducing increased surveillance for countries with excessive deficits and financial instability, these arrangements contribute to strengthened economic and fiscal governance, which is essential to prevent the implosion of our common currency. presented as the 'right of brussels to see' the preparation of national budgets, these texts in effect raise the question of greater interparliamentary cooperation at european level, between national parliaments and the european parliament, and of greater involvement of national parliamentarians in european affairs, both vis-à-vis their respective executives and vis-à-vis their fellow meps.
in writing. the two 'two-pack' proposals for regulations will increase the commission's powers of surveillance over member states' budgets. the commission will now have a right of review and intervention and will be able to decide on budget cuts and structural reforms to be implemented if the 3% deficit is not respected. it is our budgetary sovereignty which is now in the hands of the brussels technocracy. the consequences will be severe for the people of europe, who will be forced by brussels to undergo unprecedented austerity measures: lower wages and pensions, higher taxes and lower social spending. all measures that will worsen the economic crisis and poverty in europe. that is not what i want for my people and that is why i opposed the adoption of these two regulations.
in writing. the result of the trilogue is as one might expect: the height of austerity. the commission proposal is made even more serious by proposing to subject to increased surveillance all 'member states facing serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability' and not just those who request financial assistance. it is only to be welcomed that countries which do not comply with the austerity plans are no longer being cut off from eu payments. the only other austerity measures removed are those contained in the tscg, which is now in force in almost all the euro area. the troika's enhanced surveillance until 75% of the financial assistance granted has been repaid and beyond if necessary is also maintained. even the possibility of taking safeguard measures in respect of 'movements of capital to and from third countries which cause, or are likely to cause, serious difficulties for the functioning of economic and monetary union' was not considered. this text is a declaration of war on the democracy in force in our countries. i vote against and denounce the countless abuses of power which he institutes.
in writing. i voted against the proposal for a regulation on the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of the member states of the european union. this regulation would allow a member state whose currency is the euro to be subject to enhanced surveillance when it is experiencing or is likely to experience financial disturbances; the commission's proposal is to establish a european system for the monitoring of the economic performance of the member states. in other words, this regulation only institutionalises the austerity measures at european level a little more, in line with the two-pack already adopted by the eu. i strongly reject the logic of these policies of austerity which are leading europe right into the wall. as the european countries are suffering the full brunt of the crisis, it is more necessary than ever to break with austerity. europe needs a lasting recovery based on the general interest and bringing about more solidarity in the euro area and the european union as a whole.
in writing. this report, like the report by the socialist elisa ferreira of the two packs, is part of the commission's twin legislative proposal on strengthening budgetary surveillance of the eurozone countries. it specifically concerns the enhanced budgetary and economic surveillance of euro-area member states in or threatened with financial difficulties. the final adoption by parliament, in agreement with the council, will make the budgetary surveillance of the countries receiving financial assistance more automatic and oblige them to submit to the commission so-called macroeconomic adjustment programmes. these states will have to adopt measures to combat sources of instability and to seek technical assistance from the commission. we all know what that means. this is nothing but the translation into european texts of the so-called budgetary treaty and therefore the callous pursuit of austerity measures. at a time when the french national assembly is about to vote on the nap, it is cynical to claim to involve trade union organisations and civil society in the process of adjustment programmes. i therefore voted against this report, which can only plunge the union and its peoples further into the recession they have been experiencing for years.
in writing. in addition to the six-pack and the stability and growth pact, this new two-pack regulation addresses macroeconomic imbalances in the union and the euro area. i voted in favour of this regulation which calls on the member states to provide the commission each year with their draft budget for the following year in order to ensure that budgetary commitments are generally respected. i think it is necessary to improve european budgetary coordination.
in writing. while europe is sinking dramatically into unemployment and recession, the ferreira report emphasises the need to cut spending. i know and appreciate the difficulties many states - including my own - have in meeting the requirements of good management, but in the meantime i remain convinced of an even more essential point. without economic growth, without investment, without a european recovery plan, especially for major infrastructure projects and the energy transition, we will not be able to achieve the real objectives of this text. however, i did not think that a negative vote was an option. in europe, many lies have been told in recent years. more dialogue, more transparency, between the european level and the member states is fundamentally good news that should be put into practice in the general interest. so i refrained.
in writing. i voted in favour of the two european regulations (the 'two pack') which aim to strengthen budgetary discipline by introducing stricter controls on euro area countries in difficulty and by providing more controls on the process of drawing up national budgets. we in the european parliament have amended the texts to combine fiscal consolidation with growth. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work was adopted on the basis of the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work.
in writing. we now have new common preventive tools to dissuade member states from accumulating debts, to better monitor those benefiting from an aid programme and to better guard against the risk of contagion of financial difficulties from one state to the whole euro area. beyond this accountability, the 'two-pack', which would have benefited from a more readable name, will make possible the solidarity that is indispensable today between the eurozone states when it comes to preventing the risks of financial and budgetary instability that can have serious repercussions on the whole union. another important step forward was the commission's commitment to set up a group of experts to analyse the feasibility of a partial pooling of part of the national debts of the eurozone via a european sovereign debt redemption fund and the creation of short-term bonds (eurobills). we've been calling them for a long time. finally, the union's budgetary surveillance activities will be subject to democratic control: the european parliament will now have a say in the activities of the troika and in the renewal of the commission's surveillance powers. this gives democratic legitimacy to decisions which have been taken for too long in the back of an intergovernmental chamber.
in writing. the gauzès and ferreira reports add another step to the european carcan on national budgets, after the 6 pack , the pact for the euro plus , the tscg ... not only will national budgets have to remain within the quantitative limits of the maastricht criteria, but their very content will be monitored. they will have to be in full compliance with the economic and social policy guidelines, but also with the recommendations made by brussels to each euro-area member state. including in the revenue side. these texts are much more than just another violation of sovereignty. they are a denial of democracy. it should be remembered that the budgetary exercise is at the very heart of democracy through the people's consent to taxation and the legitimacy of the expenditure it funds. i deny the brussels officials, a clique of appointed technocrats, any right, any legitimacy, any competence to dictate to the european states and peoples how to organise public policy and spending. i deny them the right to impose their austerity policies, the dismantling of public services and social policy. i deny them the right to impose sanctions and protections on sovereign nations.
in writing. after a long and difficult negotiation, an agreement was reached on the two-pack of economic governance for the euro area. because we judge the consequences of austerity policies to be catastrophic for the peoples and economies, we have fought to change these two texts. the budget cuts will have to save investment for growth, the timetables for reducing deficits will be relaxed in the event of a severe recession, the commission will be subject to better scrutiny by the european parliament and national parliaments, and work will be carried out on debt mutualisation. these are steps in the right direction and i have therefore supported both texts.
in writing. parliament adopted the two-pack of texts definitively during this part-session. these are regulations that strengthen budgetary surveillance within the euro area and the european union. by introducing increased surveillance for countries with excessive deficits and financial instability, these arrangements contribute to strengthened economic and fiscal governance, which is essential to prevent the implosion of our common currency. presented as the 'right of brussels to see' the preparation of national budgets, these texts in effect raise the question of greater interparliamentary cooperation at european level, between national parliaments and the european parliament, and of greater involvement of national parliamentarians in european affairs, both vis-à-vis their respective executives and vis-à-vis their fellow meps.
in writing. this version of the second regulation of the "two-pack" further increases the european commission's grip on national budgets. now not only will the commission be able to revise budgets, but it will do so in record time (two weeks) and will oblige national parliaments to comply with it in a limited time (three weeks). the commission's subsequent opinion on the revised budget within three weeks will be sanctioned if the budget does not meet its expectations. that is the european institutions' conception of democracy! the caution in publishing information on the plans for the issuance of government debt, which was recommended at first reading, is no longer necessary. this puts the states directly at the mercy of speculators! the growth and employment policy is once again reduced to its weakest expression: the 'growth and employment pact' and the phony stimulus plan that was supposed to accompany it, but which nobody has seen. i am voting against this austerity bill and denouncing it.
in writing. i have decided to vote against the proposal for a regulation on the monitoring and evaluation of budgetary plans and the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area member states. by allowing the european commission to review the national budgets of the member states, this regulation seeks to institutionalize austerity policies within the eu a little more. this is tantamount to strengthening the measures of the 'two-pack' and increasing the pressure on the member states in the name of rigour. i am strongly opposed to policies which, by giving priority to the repayment of interest on debt over policies of general interest, are leading europe right into the wall. the only way out of the crisis is to break with the logic of austerity and to achieve a lasting recovery based on solidarity between the citizens of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is part of the two-pack, because it makes it possible to ensure a more sound management of our euro area. these governance rules, initiated by nicolas sarkozy and angela merkel, are the final touch on fiscal convergence within the european union and the euro area. the european commission may ask a parliament to revise its copy if the planned national budget is in flagrant contradiction with the deficit reduction objective. however, national parliamentarians will continue to have the final say, and the two-pack does not entail any further transfer of sovereignty. parliament also called for the creation of an expert group on the introduction of euro bonds. the euro crisis has shown that without common rules and sound management of national public finances, the single currency cannot be viable. this text is a further step towards better european economic governance and a bulwark against further budgetary crises.
in writing. this legislative report, like the report by jean paul gauzès, is part of the 'two packs', the commission's double legislative proposal on strengthening budgetary surveillance in the euro area countries. the report covers the monitoring and evaluation of budgetary plans and the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area member states. the agreement reached between the council, the european parliament and the commission last february covers the monitoring of budgetary rules at national level by independent institutions, the submission of draft national budgets to the commission for evaluation and reorientation, if necessary, in accordance with the stability and growth pact, the introduction of graduated monitoring, including an 'early' detection of member states in excessive deficit including quasi-automatic sanctions for states that do not fit in, etc. this is nothing more than the translation into european texts of the so-called budgetary treaty and the callous pursuit of austerity measures which are daily plunging the european union deeper into recession. i therefore voted against this agreement and therefore cannot but regret that it was adopted by a very large majority in the european parliament (including the socialists and the greens).
in writing. we could not continue to have a common currency without coordinating the management of our national budgets! this worked for a while: the nordic countries, with their tradition of austerity, allowed the latin countries to go into debt at a low cost, taking advantage of the credibility and good health of the euro zone. but this asymmetry in the management of budgets has come under suspicion and some countries in crisis have almost taken the euro family with them in their fall. the euro area must now ensure better management of public money. this work began with the european stability treaty, initiated by nicolas sarkozy and angela merkel, and it ends with the two-pack. with these new rules we are now in a position to avoid the problems faced by some countries and which have threatened the whole euro area, with the commission now able to challenge national budgets which do not comply with deficit reduction obligations. far from losing its sovereignty, the commission will play its role as guardian of the euro's interests, which are closely linked to the interests of the member states, economic actors and citizens.
in writing. i welcome this report as it contributes to the creation of a european venture capital investment sector for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). i have worked on it personally a lot, since this regulation was negotiated 'in a package' with the regulation on the european social entrepreneurship funds, for which i am the parliament's rapporteur. this report, drawn up by my colleague philippe lamberts, aims to create a european label for investment funds which choose to invest a minimum of 70% in young and innovative companies. while all the political groups support this principle, it was essential to agree on uniform requirements for managers of collective investment undertakings operating as 'european venture capital funds'. in future, they will be able to benefit from uniform conditions for registration and an eu-wide passport.
in writing. it is clear that the european venture capital sector is fragmented and dispersed. this report therefore seeks to address these problems by defining uniform requirements for managers of collective investment undertakings operating as 'european venture capital funds'. a second measure i will mention is that which imposes requirements on portfolios, investment techniques and the companies that these funds can target. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report by mr philippe lamberts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on european venture capital funds, which aims to establish a label for investment in young and innovative small businesses. the approach is the same as the european social label, which i have been campaigning for for some years. it is essential in these times of crisis to strengthen the social dimension and social values in europe.
in writing. our smes dominate the entrepreneurial landscape in europe and are the biggest job creators. it is especially in the early years that they need significant support: by allowing the creation of genuine european venture capital funds, europe is providing itself with a privileged tool to finance its young innovative smes. i support the emphasis on the need for this tool to be complementary to the union's framework programmes for research, innovation and the competitiveness of smes: this is the key to keeping up with our competitors, particularly in the us, in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which encourages the creation of european venture capital funds and thus makes it possible to support european smes. in france, smes have been the most directly affected by the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing since 2008. one of the difficulties facing these smes today is their lack of financing to cope with the crisis. this text should thus partially meet the difficulties of our companies by reducing their financing deficit.
in writing. this regulation complements the regulation on the european social entrepreneurship fund (eusefs) and aims to enhance the reliability and legal certainty of marketing activities carried out by operators using the designation 'european venture capital fund' by introducing uniform requirements (establishment of a european passport) for managers of collective investment undertakings, relating to the investment portfolio, investment techniques, investor categories and internal organisation of fund managers. the compromise amendments which have been found will mean that neither venture capital funds nor their beneficiaries will be able to establish themselves in tax havens and speculative investors will be strongly discouraged. i voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. in a european context of crisis and job destruction, it is essential to encourage all attempts to create businesses that provide the economic dynamism that our societies need. this necessarily requires financial support, in particular from venture capital companies. europe is currently lagging behind in this sector, especially compared to the united states. it is high time for action! that is why i support the agreement that has been reached, which sets up uniform rules at european level for venture capital companies. the fragmentation of regulations has had a detrimental effect on european competitiveness. the harmonization of rules will promote the emergence of an efficient venture capital sector. innovative european enterprises will finally have support and funding commensurate with their ambitions.
in writing. with a genuine solidarity mission, social enterprises are now financed mainly through subsidies. it is essential for these companies to attract other sources of finance to ensure their sustainable and innovative growth. as rapporteur for this draft regulation, i am pleased that it has been adopted by a very large majority of my colleagues. this regulation creates a european label for investment funds that choose to invest a minimum of 70% in social enterprises. it clarifies and strengthens the link between solidarity investment and european social enterprises by offering a reliable and attractive european investment instrument. it aims to help investors who wish to choose solidarity investment and social enterprises that need additional sources of funding. however, this report is only a first step in the construction of a european strategy for the development of social entrepreneurship.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sophie auconie, which aims to implement a european label containing uniform rules for investment funds choosing to invest up to a minimum of 70% in social enterprises. this report is a first step, which should be part of a european strategy to support social entrepreneurship. the esf label thus created should be an attractive and secure instrument for investors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on european social entrepreneurship funds, of course, because it aims to establish a european label with uniform rules for investment funds that choose to invest a minimum of 70% in social enterprises. this is the same approach as a social label, which i have been actively working on for over two years, and which would finally highlight the efforts of companies to be more socially and environmentally responsible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the auconie report on the european social entrepreneurship funds. i believe that companies with a social mission must diversify their sources of funding and not rely solely on subsidies. that is why i support the creation of a european label with uniform rules for investment funds that choose to invest in social enterprises. this label is likely to help both investors who wish to choose solidarity investment and companies that need additional sources of funding.
in writing. social enterprises are key players in our innovation and social cohesion: facilitating their emergence is facilitating our recovery, strengthening our territories, boosting our jobs. i hope that this regulation will be able to enter into force before the summer, so that the managers of these funds can seize the new opportunities that will be offered to them as soon as possible. the proposal in this report to create a european social entrepreneurship label is a good idea, which will increase their visibility and investor confidence.
in writing. i supported the report by s. auconie on the creation of a label for european social entrepreneurship funds for investment funds active in the social and solidarity economy sector. the text sets out the conditions for eligibility for the label, which will make solidarity investments more visible to both companies and investors. it is important to create such tools to support the development of the social and solidarity economy sector. the ess is a model of development that is different, not exclusively geared to profit at any cost, but more sustainable and supportive, and is, especially in times of crisis, a lever for the future of european economies. the next step should be the definition of a european 'social enterprise' label.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a large majority on tuesday 12 march of my colleague sophie auconie's report on the european social entrepreneurship fund. social enterprises now employ 11 million people and account for 10% of all european enterprises. these companies, which aim to generate a positive social impact, are nevertheless unattractive to investors who are unaware of the system. social enterprises are mainly financed through grants and this is why a european label, the 'european social entrepreneurship fund' has been created to encourage the diversification of funding sources and to enable social enterprises to invest in innovative and growth-enhancing projects.
in writing. this report by my colleague sophie auconie will help to promote european social enterprises, which are mostly smes and receive a large share of their funding from grants. however, the european requirements in this area were too restrictive and did not allow this type of smes to raise funds. the aim of this proposal is therefore to create a legislative framework adapted to the needs of social enterprises, investors seeking to finance these enterprises, and specialised investment funds which aim to act as a mediator between the two. the amendments will, for example, allow non-professional individuals to invest in social entrepreneurship funds, via ucits, with a minimum investment threshold of €100,000. ucits will be able to invest up to 10% of their funds in social entrepreneurship funds. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. we have approved the report by my colleague sophie auconie on european social entrepreneurship funds, which aims to support social entrepreneurship and solidarity investment by creating a european label. the aim of this label is to help investors easily identify funds that invest primarily in social enterprises. today, the social economy already represents 10% of our european enterprises and 11 million employees. as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i was particularly sensitive to this draft regulation, which represents one of the '12 levers for growth' identified by michel barnier in the single market act and which focuses on the adoption of concrete measures to support growth in europe.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation, which i supported in plenary, establishes a legal framework allowing investment funds to obtain the designation 'european social entrepreneurship funds' and the corresponding passport. the aim is to create a european sector focused on investing in legal persons engaged in non-profit-making activities linked to the implementation of social programmes. the proposal for a regulation lays down the criteria, in terms of available assets, which a given fund must meet in order to obtain the abovementioned designation and passport. social entrepreneurship already accounts for 10% of european enterprises, or 11 million employees. the solidarity investment market, already active in some member states, is growing rapidly. but it remains fragmented. this proposal is therefore a first step, which should be part of a european strategy to support social entrepreneurship.
in writing. according to the european commission's proposal, the purpose of the european social entrepreneurship fund is to enable the growth of social enterprises in the european union. i share the noble intention, but i doubt the relevance of the method and especially the means to do so. the aim of the fund is to provide social enterprises with access to new sources of finance. even if private financing is limited (30% maximum of total financing), it will inevitably replace public financing in the current austerity context and place social enterprises in greater financial insecurity and greater dependence on capital markets. the provisions on tax havens are a good thing, but it would have been consistent to ban them. the community institutions also give a very restrictive definition of social enterprise, with a charitable approach to the sector. this is the first eu legislative definition in this area, and it is likely to become a case law. these various elements seem to me to be contrary to the stated objective and do not take into account the place and contribution of the social and solidarity economy. i abstained, but i will continue to monitor the implementation of this mechanism, in particular in the context of the european parliament's 'social economy' intergroup.
in writing. while men were the first to be affected by the crisis, women are now directly and permanently affected by its consequences, particularly because of their greater presence in precarious jobs and their greater vulnerability. i support and welcome the quality of this report which calls on the member states to integrate the gender dimension into all policies, in particular the budgetary process, and aims at equal treatment between women and men. i would particularly like to highlight the quality of the work and the commitment of my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier in this report. the future of women's status requires the promotion of active labour market policies, the fight against undeclared work, the adoption of measures to facilitate women's 'return to work' and the encouragement of female entrepreneurship. i am personally committed to this, particularly as vice-president of the udi, responsible for family policy and women's rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr morin-chartier. it recalls the consequences of the economic and financial crisis on women in the european union since 2008. it suggests a number of measures to mitigate these consequences, such as promoting active labour market policies, combating undeclared work and adopting measures to facilitate the return to work of women who have lost their jobs or interrupted their careers for maternity leave.
in writing. i supported the report on the impact of the economic crisis on gender equality and women's rights. the economic and financial crisis that the world economy has been experiencing since 2008 has turned into a deep social crisis, which particularly affects women. the crisis has affected young people and the commission has proposed the youth guarantee; it is time for the commission and the member states to take action to address the specific problems facing women.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the morin-chartier report, which highlights the impact of the economic crisis on women's employment, and a dramatic increase in pre-existing fragility and inequalities in voting for this report, i fully support its objective of bringing women back into employment and reintegrating them into the labour market through the european social fund, and calling on the member states to take urgent measures to improve the reconciliation of family and working life and to reduce the wage gap. equality between men and women is a daily struggle, and this text is undeniably a step in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is essential to stress that women are particularly vulnerable to the crisis. this report highlights the difficulties faced by european women today. even if the crisis is not gender specific, women are clearly affected, more strongly and more insidiously than men. their place in the labour market is very precarious: they very often have fixed-term or part-time contracts (in 2011, 31.6% of women worked part-time). women are still paid less than their male colleagues: with equal profiles, the difference in pay at recruitment is 19%. in addition, women must be able to balance work and private life, as they continue to do most of the housework, taking care of dependants, including children or sick parents. we urgently need to correct the too glaring differences which still exist in our society and in the labour market. women have a key role to play in overcoming the crisis and in economic recovery: the world of work must find a better balance between women and men.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which highlights the devastating effects of the economic crisis on gender equality and the situation of women. indeed, the austerity policies of conservative governments and cuts in social spending have had a harder impact on women than on men in europe. the reduction in social benefits and social services for women and mothers has made them twice as vulnerable to the economic crisis and has made them more vulnerable to poverty. the text calls very clearly on the commission to integrate the gender dimension into all european policies, and to compensate for austerity measures by investing in training, just as it is important to adapt the structural funds to better support female employment. the economic crisis is not a valid excuse. we have to do something.
in writing. i voted for this report by my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier, whose work i welcome, because it highlights a reality that should not be ignored: women suffer more than men from the current policies of budget cuts and social spending cuts. the latter often lead to the penalisation of sectors which traditionally employ a large number of women (social infrastructure, childcare and health or education), which has contributed to the increase in unemployment among women or the precariousness of their work. the text therefore calls on the member states to compensate for the budgetary policies of crisis by investing in training for employment and entrepreneurship for women, but also by better inclusion of women in decision-making processes and genuine promotion of gender equality on company boards.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on the impact of the economic crisis on gender equality and women's rights. equality between men and women is a fundamental principle and gender inequalities, particularly wage inequalities, are unacceptable. the economic and social crisis we are experiencing is only exacerbating existing inequalities. for example, women are the first victims of austerity measures, since the budget cuts mainly affect the public sector, where 70% of employees are women. in addition, the increase in parttime jobs and the reduction in family allowances increase the risk of precariousness for the most vulnerable, primarily single mothers. beyond the fight for gender equality, i would like to stress that all forms of inequality and discrimination within the european union must be denounced and eradicated.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which, in the context of international women's day, recalls that women are doubly affected by the crisis. women who already suffer from wage discrimination, slow careers or precarious jobs are being penalized by budget cuts in sectors with high female employment rates: social infrastructure, education, childcare or health. the resolution therefore encourages member states to invest in women entrepreneurs and to promote gender balance in management to break the glass ceiling that affects their working lives.
in writing. the reproduction of gender stereotypes has a strong influence on the respective roles of men and women in their daily lives, whether at home, in the workplace or in society. the report aims to combat gender bias and discrimination, particularly in television programmes, computer games, music videos and pornographic material for young people. i voted in favour of this report which underlines the importance of this widespread and discriminatory phenomenon by recommending measures in the media and in culture, education and training, the labour market and decision-making at economic and political levels.
in writing. in the current climate of gender equality, it is time to stop allowing the use of the image of girls and women for the purpose of sexualizing advertising, but also all the stereotypes related to the labour market that prove to be a handicap for women's access to employment. we must be especially careful about television programs, computer games, and music videos. and given the abundance of media available to us, we also needed a new cultural status regarding pornography among young people. it should also be borne in mind that the elimination of gender stereotypes requires awareness-raising in schools, involving teachers and textbooks.
in writing. i welcome the fact that some of my proposals have been incorporated into the text of this report. two of these seem to me particularly urgent: firstly, we must make parttime work a more effective deterrent to prevent it being abused; secondly, we must make the fight against violence against women a priority criminal policy. i am taking these proposals to france and i will continue to take them to the european parliament.
in writing. ms liotard's report on the elimination of gender stereotypes in the european union is itself a huge androphobic stereotype and a plea for the vast nonsense of 'gender theory'. all the punks are there, with the usual solutions: skull stuffing from childhood, suppression of any thought or word allegedly "sexist", quotas and even revision of history! i like to think that joan of arc would make confetti with mrs liotard's report. the extremely negative description of our societies is in stark contrast to the circumstances and the very diplomatic language used in another report voted on today, which is devoted to the situation of women in north africa. i was surprised to find in mrs liotard's report no mention or even allusion to the consequences of mass immigration, to cultural values different from or opposed to our own, to the treatment of women and girls in many parts of our cities. it is not, as far as i know, because of the european macho stereotypes, allegedly conveyed by our media, that there is a choice between the burqa and the turning, that there is sexual mutilation, or that there is forced marriage.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because we need to step up the fight against gender stereotypes in the european union. the sexist and negative images conveyed in the media and advertising and taken up in schools must stop. from an early age and in school, young people's perception of the relationship between men and women needs to be better guided. the root causes must therefore be addressed, by closing the pay gap, curbing parttime work and improving women's access to economic and political decision-making. this is why the main european parliamentary groups are calling for the introduction of binding quotas for parity in national parliaments. similarly, member states should nominate candidates of both sexes for the posts of european commissioner so that the composition of the next commission is geared to parity.
in writing. the report calls for action to combat the perpetuation and even the aggravation of gender stereotypes in all sectors of society, including the media and schools. it is in favour of quotas to allow women to enter political and economic decision-making positions and to gradually end the existence of 'gendered' jobs. it advocates mainstreaming the issue of equality between men and women in all policy areas. it stresses the need to guarantee equal pay for equal work and not to devalue one job over another. it encourages the member states to combat parttime work. that's why i support him. i regret, however, that it does not draw any conclusions from the worsening situation of women as a result of the union's austerity policies. i also regret that it does not at any time provide public early childhood services and care services to ensure that everyone has access to a decent childcare service.
in writing. international women's day is an opportunity to raise important gender equality issues. i am pleased that my colleague, kartika liotard, has raised this essential issue of combating gender stereotypes. the aim of this report is to explain the socio-cultural constructions that weigh on women and men from an early age. the issue of education, and in particular of school curricula, is essential. the same applies to the media and advertising, which too often convey particularly negative images of the construction of equality between women and men. the report proposes specific training, particularly in the national advertising standards institutions. without a real awareness of these issues, women will continue to represent the majority of precarious jobs and to be paid less than men with equal qualifications. i therefore voted for this report despite some paragraphs on the control of the media, particularly in the 'digital field', which are vague in terms. i am afraid that the battles over hadopi and acta will allow some member states to strengthen their control over the net.
in writing. the implementation of eu environmental legislation is difficult and varies from one member state to another, ranging from overzealous transposition to ineffective implementation. the lack of implementation of eu environmental law has serious consequences for the environment and human health. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that the responsibility for implementing union law lies with the member states and emphasises the support that the union institutions can provide to this end. the report states that the proper application of eu law by member states and regional and local authorities is the guarantee of achieving the desired results of eu policies. finally, i welcome the benefits to businesses that can be derived from more effective policy implementation, for example by reducing administrative burdens, ensuring investment security and promoting job creation. the implementation of eu environmental legislation is difficult and varies from one member state to another, ranging from overzealous transposition to ineffective implementation. the cost of not implementing eu environmental law has serious consequences for the environment and human health. i voted in favour of this report which recalls that it is the responsibility of the member states to implement union law and highlights the support that the union institutions can provide to this end. the report states that the proper application of eu law by member states and regional and local authorities is the guarantee of achieving the desired results of eu policies. finally, i welcome the benefits to businesses that can be derived from more effective policy implementation, for example by reducing administrative burdens, ensuring investment security and promoting job creation.
in writing. i supported this rossi report (a7-0028/2013) as it looks at how to make the most of the eu's environmental measures, and advocates building trust through better knowledge and responsiveness. to this end, it is essential to involve more stakeholders, national and local authorities, but also and above all the companies that have to comply with these environmental rules. to this end, legal environmental responsibility and corporate social responsibility should be widely encouraged; i believe it is essential to implement all initiatives aimed at encouraging and disseminating better corporate social responsibility in the environmental field, as this principle reflects the requirement for companies to be open to the sustainable development strategy. this responsible attitude would also avoid 'gold plating', which runs counter to the original political ideas and the effectiveness of european environmental legislation.
in writing. i voted for the rossi report on making the most of the union's environmental measures. i believe that given the abundance of european environmental legislation, the main difficulty is to ensure that it is implemented effectively. to this end, i approve the proposed measures to reduce and simplify administrative burdens. i also support greater transparency in environmental administrative procedures. this report proposes some sensible measures and i welcome its adoption.
in writing. i particularly support the emphasis on data collection and dissemination: information for citizens is the key to the acceptability of environmental measures, but also to their effectiveness. this is the approach i advocated in the preparation of this report. i will continue to advocate transparency, collection and dissemination of environmental data.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which allows the union to turn words into action in the fight against environmental pollution. through the affirmation of greater transparency and easier access for citizens to 'environmental justice', the european citizen is now fully integrated into the more environmentally friendly europe he supports.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is based on the principle that in environmental matters a balance must be struck between a regulatory framework protecting the environment and a margin of manoeuvre for the implementation of these rules. with one demand that i defend: avoid legislative inflation that is too restrictive, and therefore counterproductive, and no longer satisfies the citizens. in this very sensitive area, the aim of which is to preserve our heritage and leave a viable world to our children, the expertise of national and local authorities is invaluable. the european environmental acquis is best implemented by taking into account local specificities and needs. european environmental legislation is an opportunity for all economic sectors, whether industry, agriculture, transport or tourism. to achieve our objectives, we need the cooperation of everyone and therefore optimal coordination between all public and private actors. the challenges are many and the urgency of action is clear: improving our living conditions, the quality of our water, air and public health are not negotiable. i am therefore pleased that parliament has supported the proposed framework for action to make the most of environmental measures.
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam representative of the commissioner, i would first of all like to join in all the thanks that have just been addressed by the first rapporteur. i want to say a friendly word to the elected and administrative team that has accompanied me in this work. the commission's proposals for the common organization of the market mark a new stage. they mean that public resources for managing markets will now be more limited and they open up new possibilities for producers to organise themselves in order to have a greater say in trade negotiations. the committee on agriculture and rural development, however, considered it necessary to supplement them as they should take better account of a number of recent developments such as, for example, the increased volatility of raw material prices. the agricultural markets and production cannot therefore be left without any form of management. the safety net logic must therefore be fully developed: it is necessary, in particular, to ensure that the definition of reference prices and the arrangements for activating private storage aid are not totally disconnected from the evolution of prices on the markets, production costs and producers' margins. if we accept the general philosophy of disengagement, operated by the public authorities in the day-to-day management of the markets, leaving public intervention and private storage at a safety net level, this also presupposes that farmers have a clear vision of the market and that they can make their choice of manager in a transparent and fully informed manner. the role of the private sector is therefore much greater than in the past. this requires producers to gain real market power within the supply chain in order to rebalance the functioning of the supply chain. strengthening the market power of the agricultural production sector must thus enable the cap to achieve one of its fundamental objectives: to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural population, while guaranteeing consumers security of supply and health security at an acceptable cost, another essential objective of the cap. the tasks entrusted to producer organisations and interbranch organisations must therefore be secured and strengthened. they cannot, however, lead to the formation of cartels which divert producers from the necessary efforts to improve their competitiveness, innovation and production, which they must continue to make, but they must enable them to escape from the economic dependence in which they are still often locked up. it is still necessary that these tasks can be properly and effectively fulfilled in practice. this therefore requires a reflection on the application of competition law, which often thwarts joint initiatives by agricultural producers or sectors, even though their organisation and strengthening are at the heart of the reform of the cmu. the european union is also bound by international agreements. it must of course implement them, but it must do so only at the same rate as its partners are implementing them. i am thinking here of export refunds, which could only be used in the event of a serious crisis but which should be definitively eliminated only on the basis of full reciprocity with the main exporters of agricultural products. in the field of international trade, consumer protection also leads us to impose the same requirements on imported products as on intra-community products. finally, a word on some sectoral policies. the rights of plantation in viticulture are a fundamental guarantee of the economic, social and cultural balance of our territories. let's keep them safe. the sugar quotas should enable european production to become fully competitive on world markets for a few more years. let's protect them. milk quotas no longer seem to be the most appropriate solution for the development of a dynamic sector, but their abolition will create serious problems for many regions. let's go with them. by firmly defending these priorities, the european parliament will also be affirming its willingness to reach a renewed cap in a trilogue. i am sure the commissioner has the same wish.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case. the new cap will not change the directions of our agriculture which are so harmful to the balance of our territories and to our future generations. as a member of the south-west, i can tell you that we are facing acute problems of water pollution, to the extent that france has been called to order by the commission for the level of nitrates in its watercourses in the lot and garonne and in the pyrénées-atlantiques. this pollution is mainly due to the monoculture of maize, which consumes a lot of water, inputs and pesticides, and which has been encouraged by successive cap reforms since 1992. without crop rotation, without compliance with the water and pesticides directive, without stopping gmos, without a ceiling on aid, the same logic of monoculture will prevail, with its harmful consequences. so, since this is the first time parliament has to take a decision, i ask the question: how long are we going to continue to subsidize modern epidemics which are linked to agriculture which is more concerned with its balance sheet than with the health of our children?
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, since 1968 the sugar sector has been governed by a common organization of markets based on the principles of quotas and prices. the new reform, after the one in 2006, completes, in my view, the weakening of all these principles. the common thread running through all this is clear: it is to bring it into line with the framework desired by the wto for ever greater liberalization of agricultural markets and products, with the ultimate aim that the reference price should be only the price set by the world market. i reject this logic because it condemns the sugarcane growers to the merciless rule of a large world market, which allows blind productivism and social dumping to triumph. if this reform is accepted as proposed by the commission, then the only thing that will ultimately remain for the sugarcane growers is the customs duties which could protect them from global competition, and we all know that this will not be enough. if we are to rely on the fate of banana production or milk production, we can only be skeptical. that is why our committee calls on all colleagues to adopt the proposal of the agri committee calling for a postponement until 2020. it is a postponement that is necessary, particularly for sugarcane growers in the outermost regions.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, there were hopes for this reform of the common agricultural policy, but unfortunately, as it stands, we must admit that it does not meet the major challenges facing farmers and european consumers. it does not address global speculation in agricultural and food commodities or the full free trade which destroys food sovereignty, destroys the environment and lowers food safety and food safety, or the injustices linked to the disconnection of prices from labour. the proposed aid ceiling is too high to be effective and to allow a fair distribution of public funds for family and peasant farming, employment and sustainable development. i would add that it is not clear how it is possible today for us to vote for a mandate to negotiate with the european council, which itself wants to reduce the budget for the common agricultural policy. once again, we are advocating the introduction of intervention instruments for guaranteed basic prices beyond the safety net system mentioned by michel dantin and the regulation of production, in particular the maintenance of the milk quota systems. public aid that could be capped at eur 100 000 could be degressive. like you, commissioner, i believe that a premium on the first hectares, as the french government advocates, would be a positive thing. as would be the social and environmental visas at the borders that need to be invented, as well as a protein plan that could have been possible with a new crop rotation. obviously, what is being considered here does not go in the direction of what i am saying here.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in july 2010 the european commission organised a major citizens' consultation for the first time, and it is all in honour of commissioner cioloş. but what has come out of this debate? firstly, we need a more united cap, a fairer agricultural policy, a greener agricultural policy, because this agricultural policy is paid for by the financial contributions of all european citizens. the farmers today owe their support to the support of the european citizens. but unfortunately, what is happening today is that the council is unraveling the proposals of commissioner cioloş. and the committee on agriculture of the european parliament is doing the same, going so far as to propose the use of hormones in livestock farming, even proposing to challenge the nitrates directive or the water directive. as for greening, today the only thing we are being offered is to have several crops on the farm, when that will not change anything. the ceiling of eur 300 000 affects only 0.12% of farms. so it's a hoax. there is a number of progress and i welcome the work we have done with my colleague, michel dantin. but today parliament must get its act together and that is the whole point of tomorrow's vote, in relation to what the citizens expect. we wanted to move forward in a consistent way, amendments were proposed more than 500. on friday, parliament tried to prevent these amendments from being brought to the plenary by means of a regulation. thanks to the mobilization of all parliamentary groups, the amendments will be tabled. which is a good thing. nevertheless, i will read this to you - it is a letter we are going to send to the president of this parliament - a comment is necessary on the voting procedure for tomorrow on direct payments. we disagree on the order of votes. there is a rule which is not respected in the compilation of the voting list for this report. this rule requires that amendments which are furthest from the commission's legislative proposal be voted on first. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not a one-off, but that it is a one-off, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to ensure that the cap is not a one-off. the proposal for crop rotation, which is more ambitious than diversification, will be voted on later, if it is voted on. this amendment is proposed by members from different groups and it is this proposal which must be voted on first, according to the rules. i therefore very clearly ask that the voting list be corrected as soon as possible so that parliament's rules of procedure are respected. this is not a procedural matter, but a highly political one.
mr president, commissioner, we must show through tomorrow's vote, in our new role as co-legislators, the european parliament's ambition for a real reform of the cap: food security, equity, greening, regulation must be at the forefront. the abandonment of historical references is a big step. internal convergence is going in the right direction. we have already voted in the committee on agriculture and rural development for a better redistribution of the first few hectares, but we must go further and lower the ceiling for aid below eur 300 000, and implement a real degressivity to ensure greater equity between farmers and to promote employment. the greening process is under way, but we must strengthen it from tomorrow and adapt it to the reality, to enable a real ecological transition: eco-conditionality, crop rotation, ecologically valuable areas must mark this political appointment. finally, and this is our responsibility, we must enable all the production sectors to cope with the crisis management by adopting appropriate regulatory tools, in particular for milk, and i welcome the reintroduction of planting rights in viticulture. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, it is not easy to talk about such a major reform in one minute. i get a lot of messages in my territory in the south of france from citizens of my region asking me to support sustainable agriculture. i believe that the long months of work in parliament have made it possible to respond to this concern. i would like to reiterate a principle which is very close to my heart: we must not oppose ecology and agriculture. the two are intimately linked. both are the two sides of the same coin, the interaction of man with his environment. we cannot make a lasting reform of the cap without the farmers or, worse, against them. so i want to say to everyone here: members of parliament have negotiated hard. the charge of greenwashing is not justified. the greening efforts proposed by the reform are real. if in the past some farmers abused european rules, today the majority of the profession is fighting for sustainable and high-quality agriculture and is sometimes stifled by the bureaucracy of certain european requirements and standards. i would add that i am pleased that the planting rights have been retained, which is the result of a lot of work.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i too would like to take up some points in the debate and thank the many colleagues who have spoken, which clearly shows that the question of agriculture is a global question of society. before i reply to this or that point or point out any inaccuracy, i would like to mention that we have not at any time this afternoon spoken of the drastic reduction in the budget, which, for the common organization of the market, represents a 40% reduction, which, mr nicholson, means that we are safe from any return to the past because we no longer have the capacity and we do not have, legally, the tools to return to the agriculture of the past and the measures of the past. it was said that we would maintain export subsidies. i invite those who still have this illusion to read the full compromise which has been prepared. it is written in black and white in the compromise that the budget line is set at zero but that the legal instrument is retained so that, after a new decision by the council and parliament, it can intervene only in the event of a crisis. on production and competition law, it was said that we would put agriculture outside the scope of competition law. here again, it is clearly stated in a compromise that we ask the commission to ensure that the competition rules are applied uniformly in all our member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not distorted. the commissioner has made some comments on sugar. i would add two points of information: the previous reform, ladies and gentlemen, led to the closure of 85 sugar beet refineries and the abandonment of thousands of hectares of beet crops in europe. we need a little extra time to finish the sector adaptation. let's not get our bearings wrong. the report says that we also want to see no more rights for beet quotas at the end of the programming period. so we have the same goals. let us read the report again tonight and i am sure that we will be able to find some significant points of convergence tomorrow.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members of parliament, listening to the rapporteur, anne jensen, i easily discover that we share the same positions and priorities. that is often so when i listen to anne jensen, and now with the council also taking its position on the guidelines for 2014, we can start – and the starting point should be the trialogue on 19 march – to look forward to what might be the way forward. with so many unknowns as to the figures and the legal basis, what is clear for us is that this is the first year of the new programming period. it should be in everybody’s interest to launch successfully this 2014 budget as the new beginning. this is more dramatic now in the europe of recessionary stagnation trends. therefore, we need investment, and i know everybody here in this room is aware that the 2014 procedure cannot be isolated from mff negotiations over the multiannual period 2014-2020. this house is launching, tomorrow, the consent procedure with its vote, and negotiations should start as soon as possible, in order to give us also the point of preference for 2014. as for the priorities, they are almost self-evident, given the high level of unemployment and the shortage of investment money – you cannot find investment money in the regional and national budgets. therefore, we should exploit to the maximum the capacity of the european budget, which is not so much about consumption or social transfer but about investment with a multiple effect also upon jobs and growth. this is also about the proper level of payments, not only for 2014, of course; it is another link in your resolution of the future to link this year’s budget also to the future, and this is the right choice, as we have something left from 2012 – still not fully paid-out bills from 2012. but also, regarding 2013, nobody is surprised when i say that the level of payments for 2013 is too low. we need a supplementary budget. we are coming forward with a supplementary budget for 2013 in order not to poison the future with an overhang from the past. this is what we need. we should also be very much in control of administrative expenditure. we are on our way with cuts in staff levels but also with freezing of all non-salary-related types of expenditure under so-called heading 5 (in administration), but i would also like to call on the other institutions to follow the model of the european commission. anyway, whatever the unknowns for the future – also for the coming year – we should work together. the mood of cooperation and goodwill in cooperation is more dramatically needed now than ever, so i count on your support.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking and congratulating mrs jensen on her report, which is very much in line with the views of most of the groups. in the crisis we are living in, the need for certainty is an essential element of trust. however, the 2014 budget is in a context of great uncertainty: uncertainty about the multiannual financial framework, which many of us consider disappointing, uncertainty about the legal bases, uncertainty about interinstitutional agreements. the european budget is an instrument that is 94% redistributed to the member states, based on the principles of efficiency, mutualisation and european added value. it must focus on growth and development, and we all reiterate in this report our willingness to invest in training, research and technology transfer, infrastructure, support for small and mediumsized enterprises with a specific concern - this was recalled - for youth unemployment. clearly, the member states have shown us that they do not believe in the effectiveness of mutualisation, solidarity, european added value, in short, greater integration of the union. we support the essential return to a balanced public accounts and the reduction of sovereign debts, but we must also recognize that the recession is taking us further away from this goal every day and that the abandonment of the budgetary instruments for growth is proving counterproductive, putting the balance of the accounts at risk and making the peoples of europe despair. we believe that the european budget, which is neither in deficit nor in debt, remains the best benchmark for investment policies and is well suited to the crisis we are going through. it was pointed out that member states do not honour the payments they owe to the european budget; i would remind you that this is the case in 23 of the 27 countries this year, those countries which are giving us lessons in austerity; that these countries are proposing budget cuts, precisely where the investment effort should be. all this, ladies and gentlemen, is of concern to us. despite the difficulties ahead, we hope that this first budget of the next multiannual financial framework will not mark the first step in a seven-year decline for the european project, ultimately to the detriment of the member states and their citizens, but will instead be the beginning of a new energy for the union in the face of the crisis.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work, even though this debate is taking place at a time of uncertainty, as has already been said. uncertainty about whether or not the future multiannual financial framework will be adopted, uncertainty about the basis on which the commission will draw up the draft budget for 2014. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget. this is the consequence of the difference between payment appropriations and commitment appropriations. payment appropriations are set at too low a level to pay the bills for commitments. we know that without a sufficient level of payments at the beginning of the budgetary cycle, we run the risk of complications in the implementation of the budget. at the end of 2012, we had 16 billion loans in arrears and by the end of 2013, we should be, perhaps, close to 30 billion. we have repeatedly said that 'permanent and excessive deferral of payments will continue to be a major problem if we do not succeed in putting an end to it'. the resolution of the problem of late payments is a precondition for entering into negotiations on the future multiannual financial framework. ladies and gentlemen, can we start negotiations in the debt situation? how can we seriously talk about fiscal consolidation if this problem is not solved? the political credibility and solvency of the union are at stake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised by what i have to say. i believe that the compromise we are called upon to reach tomorrow on the composition of this house for the period 2014-2019 is not acceptable as it stands. firstly, because this proposal leads to a text which is questionable in relation to the principle of proportional decline. the principle of representative democracy is here challenged by a solution which is pragmatic but not equitable. secondly, because the text proposed is paradoxical in many places. he proposes that the future allocation of seats in 2019-2024 should reflect population weights as closely as possible, which means that this is clearly not the case for the next legislature. the text also says that it must be established in the future, and that it must be established in an objective, fair, sustainable and transparent way. it can therefore be concluded that the present proposal is not. finally, the rapporteur's aim of reaching a consensus on this compromise will probably not be achieved, although i doubt it will be unanimously adopted by the council. in conclusion, i am afraid that the electorate will not be fooled by this kind of arrangement. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i would like to stress two things, ladies and gentlemen: firstly, this representation and secondly, the fact that there seems to me to be a gap between what we are advocating for the future and what we are advocating now. i think that this is a paradox in the way we are thinking about this in the committee on budgets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is my turn to congratulate our two co-rapporteurs. they themselves have stressed both the difficulty of their task and the imperfection of the solution they advocated, a solution which nevertheless received very wide support within the committee on constitutional affairs. their proposal is both realistic and pragmatic. it is, in a way, the least bad of proposals, if i may say so. they tried to be as unfaithful as possible to the principles of degressive proportionality. they're proposing that no state lose more than one seat. i would like to say at this point that i come from a country - france - which can legitimately consider itself to be under-represented in this house, especially since, unlike other member states with large populations, my country - france - is experiencing population growth. however, it did not seem politically sensible to me to take advantage - if i may say so - of the opportunity of welcoming future croatian members to our assembly, in favour of this future accession, to argue in favour of increasing the number of french meps. some amendments to this effect were tabled in the committee on constitutional affairs, which i did not wish to join, and which were, moreover, very largely rejected. what is important to me today - i tabled an amendment to this effect, which was adopted in the committee on constitutional affairs - is to say loud and clear that the european parliament which will come to the polls in 2014 will have to work on this thoroughly from the beginning of the next parliamentary term in order to develop a system - and this before the end of 2015, so really at the beginning of the parliamentary term - which will make it possible to consider the allocation of future seats on an objective basis, in a fair, sustainable, balanced, fair and demographic way. this is important and this work will have to be carried out in the context of a more comprehensive institutional review which will also take account of the delicate question of votes in the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that i do not underestimate the work and efforts of my fellow rapporteurs on this report. however, the proposal adopted on the composition of our parliament in 2014 - no one loses or gains more than one seat - is simply contrary to the democratic principles of fair representation of all european citizens and degressive proportionality. today we are simply asked to vote for a pragmatic solution which is in contradiction, in derogation and in respect of the european union treaties. why would you do that? the european council must be unanimous. as such, each has its responsibilities. firstly, this unanimity is not guaranteed. secondly, we are the european parliament and there is no reason for us to extend the mandate of the european citizens out of complacency towards governments which refuse to see the parliament reflect the democratic developments in europe. i think that now is not the time for small concessions in the democratic field, but for strengthening the bond of trust with the citizens. and i think this deal is going to undermine our legitimacy. that is why i shall vote against it and call on my colleagues to reject it tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, as you again said in your opening remarks, the commission has repeatedly told us that this future strategy will be based on the results of the efsa opinion on risks to human health. this work could eventually lead to the banning, as you have indicated, of many substances used in industry beyond the strictly food context. to do this, efsa would have to show that it is capable of working in complete independence and transparency on this crucial issue for the health of our citizens. however, there are still serious doubts on this point. on 3 december 2012, efsa very quietly published on its website the composition of a panel of scientists who will be delivering their opinion on endocrine disruptors in a few weeks. the analysis of this list once again highlights the conflicts of interest which plague this european agency. of the 18 experts appointed, only 3 have scientific experience in the endocrine system issue. moreover, the national distribution is not very representative. so, commissioner, reassure us that we can finally - as our colleague mr westlund says in this report - have real action against endocrine disruptors.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the report by our colleague, mrs hirsch, makes some interesting recommendations. the integration of workers from third countries must be facilitated by respect for the right to work, positive coordination of social protection and pension systems, and a strong condemnation of all forms of racism, exclusion and discrimination. the first discrimination to be combated is that linked to access to employment and training. workers from third countries must not be used as cheap labour to affect the wages of all workers but must have the same rights as those in the host country. the report could have been more bold, i think, on this point. on the other hand, it is difficult to speak of the integration of immigrant workers by contrasting criteria of residence time. i would add that we should strongly oppose the criminalisation of migrants with the return directive and stop the hunt for foreigners with frontex missions. at the same time, we should prevent attempts to recruit creators, researchers, teachers and doctors at low cost, when their skills are needed for the development of their country of origin, so that our european union can act in favour of genuine cooperation for development.
mr president, madam commissioner, i should like to begin by welcoming the owninitiative report, which has the merit of presenting immigration as beneficial and necessary for europe. but i take this opportunity of the debate on this text to point out that not all member states are complying with the commitments of the association agreements. the netherlands has indexed social benefits to the cost of living in the country where the recipients reside since 1 july 2012. the first group of people affected by this provision are, of course, migrants. after a lifetime of work in one country, emigrants are denied some of their social rights when they wish to return to live in their country of origin. morocco is particularly affected by this change, which implies that pension rights for widows and family allowances are reduced by 40% for these migrants. i call on the european commission to ensure that the member states respect europe's international commitments in the field of social security. i'm waiting for your answer.
author. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on employment and social affairs has asked the plenary to consider the impact of austerity policies on the living conditions of disabled people. before i put this question to you, i must say that it is obviously having a huge impact outside our parliament, if i can believe the importance of the reactions it has aroused within the non-governmental organisations and institutions concerned with the plight of disabled people, when disability affects one in ten people in the european union, when the poverty rate of these people is 70% higher than the average of the population of the european union and when the employment rate of these disabled people is only 45%. at least a quarter of the population will experience a mental health problem at some point in their lives, and for 10 percent of those people, it can lead to chronic mental health problems. one third of the elderly over 75% suffer from partial disabilities and over 20% are severely disabled. the rate of drop-out among 16-19 year olds is 35% for disabled people, 25% for partially disabled people and 17% for those without disabilities. that is the point of the question we are asking here. we know that the european union has a whole arsenal, which you are responsible for, commissioner, particularly in relation to the charter of fundamental rights, when in its article 1 it states that human dignity is inviolable, when in its article 21 it states that discrimination on the grounds of disability is contrary to european union law, or when in its article 26 it recognises and respects the right of persons with disabilities to benefit from measures to ensure their autonomy, social and professional integration and participation in community life. i am not quoting the united nations convention or the treaty on the functioning of the european union; i would remind the commission of its own work, if i may say so: in the priorities of the european disability strategy 2010-2020, it has indicated its willingness to ensure that goods, services, including public services, and assistance systems are accessible to people with disabilities. in the same communication, the commission indicated that persons with disabilities should be able to participate fully in society by removing administrative and behavioural barriers and providing quality and local services, including access to personalised assistance. it also said that more disabled people should be able to earn a decent living by working in the ordinary labour market. the european parliament reacted to a report by our colleague ádám kósa in a resolution of 25 october 2011. what do we see today? we find that austerity policies are aggravating the already very difficult situation of people with disabilities by reducing public spending on health and access to care, by limiting investment in structures essential to mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities. the eu 2020 strategy's objectives were to achieve a 75% employment rate for people aged 20-64 and to reduce the number of people living in poverty or at risk of exclusion by 20 million. and we know that if we do not integrate people with disabilities into the labour market, we will not achieve these goals. beyond that, the challenge is that of equal opportunities, for a union that is true to its values, for a european union that is driven by concern for equity, which must offer disabled people the means to fully realize their life project, for a european union of solidarity that knows how to act for disabled people, a union that works for all. that is why the commission must be consistent with the strategy it has adopted and which the european parliament has supported, and perhaps in this action parliament must also give an indication of the action which the commission might take. finally, we ask that the european commission be prepared to look at what this european parliament will draw up as a proposal, as a recommendation, on the basis of the report that my colleague, mr jean lambert, is currently drafting on access to care for vulnerable populations. that is the political message that i think we are going to be conveying in this report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am delighted to have the opportunity to discuss this week’s european council with you. the european union has done a great deal since the beginning of the crisis to stabilise the financial situation, and also to address the root causes of the crisis and lay the ground for the return to growth. the recession in 2012 and the relative stagnation in economic activity forecast for 2013 remind us all that these efforts must be continued. we must in particular give absolute priority to implementing the measures which have been agreed. this will be the main issue for this week’s meeting. but heads of state or government will also briefly take stock of the ongoing work on emu and will exchange views on the eu’s relations with russia. allow me to start by looking at the european semester and the promotion of competitiveness, growth and jobs. effective management of the processes involved in european semester 2013 is of course an important focus for our presidency. the spring european council will conclude the first phase of these processes. the key output is the guidance to member states on the preparation of their stability programme updates and national reform programmes. i expect that the european council will reinforce strongly the five headline priorities of the commission’s annual growth survey, including doing so in light of the presidency synthesis report presented by the tánaiste to the general affairs council on monday. this synthesis reviews discussions within the council on the annual growth survey and is firmly supportive of its orientation for actions by member states supporting competitiveness, growth and jobs. this means: pursuing differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation; restoring normal lending to the economy; promoting growth and competitiveness; tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and modernising public administration. it is crucial that we keep up the momentum behind national-level reforms in these areas, underpinned by the goals of the europe 2020 strategy: supporting growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive. we are all well aware that there is a very real public concern about the merits of these policies, with some arguing that their social cost is too high and that they are not working. coming from ireland, i think that i am more than aware that fiscal consolidation policies have real and sometimes very difficult effects. if we want to return to sustainable growth, and create jobs, we have to continue to restore stability, and that includes putting our public finances in order. we must continue with structural reform, without which there can be no sustainable return to growth. substantial progress has and is being made towards achieving structurally balanced budgets. this has to continue. at the same time we cannot – nor do we – ignore the impact being felt on unemployment levels, particularly amongst young people. that is why, as the presidency, we have attached such importance to the youth guarantee which has just been agreed by the council. securing consensus here was a key presidency priority for us. while acknowledging that different member states face different implementation issues, we expect that progress will be supported by the eur 6 billion youth employment initiative agreed by the european council last month. this underlines that young people simply must have the prospect of meaningful work if we expect them to be able to realise their full potential within society. we must also continue with the implementation of the measures contained in the compact for growth and jobs. this means, in particular, eu-level actions that will support the more country-specific orientation of the european semester process. as you know, the irish presidency has placed particular emphasis on the single market and external trade agendas, highlighting priority measures that will have a real impact on the economy. there is, for example, very considerable growth potential which can be realised if we deliver on the combined proposals of single market act i and single market act ii. we need – together – to make progress on these proposals as quickly as possible. our work on the eu-us trade relationship has got off to a good start, and we will be working hard to get a formal council mandate for fta negotiations in time for the june foreign affairs council. the financing needs of the real economy must remain a further crucial focus in terms of eu-level actions supporting growth and jobs. this means restoring normal lending conditions and unlocking productive and growth-enhancing investments. i expect that the eib will continue to play a crucial role in this regard. let me now say a few words on economic and monetary union. since june 2012, work has been underway building on the report ‘towards a genuine economic and monetary union’ which was submitted by the president of the european council in consultation with the presidents of the commission, the eurogroup and the ecb. a number of key decisions have been taken and legislation is underway or in the process of being finalised. the european council will take stock of this ongoing work. it will look particularly at progress towards a more integrated financial framework, and lay considerable emphasis on concluding the legislative process on the single supervisory mechanism. the european council will be addressing the european union’s relations with russia. this is in line with president van rompuy’s intention to ensure that the european council regularly focuses on relations with our key strategic partners. this week’s discussion will be open, without conclusions, and will be looking in particular at ways of making the relationship more productive. i am very much aware that, in this debate, you will also cover the issue of the mff, on which you will be adopting your position later today. it is not for me to go into the substance of this issue right now, but i do want to be clear on two points. firstly, we look forward to engaging fully with the parliament on the mff. there have already been extensive contacts between the irish presidency and parliament, including with mr lamassoure, the chair of the committee on budgets and the lead contact point on the mff, with mr lehne as chair of the conference of committee chairs and, of course, with president schulz, with whom the taoiseach has met twice, together with president barroso, in dublin and here at parliament in strasbourg. that close and intense engagement will continue and indeed intensify in the weeks ahead. secondly, we are fully committed to concluding work on the mff as soon as possible during our presidency. we are fully aware that our institutions must work in very close cooperation if we are to deliver on this ambition. europe now needs to show that it can get on with business. the public will not thank any of our institutions if, together, we cannot plan, legislate and deliver the programmes which bring europe home to so many of our citizens, whether that be through erasmus, cap or cohesion funding. this represents a very considerable burden of work. our view is that this must not deter us, and that we need to manage it together if we are to succeed. we will of course work, as always, in full respect of the respective roles and prerogatives of the institutions in order to achieve a positive outcome. i look forward very much to working closely with all of you to make that happen. i look forward to listening to your debate and to the views of the members of the european parliament this morning.
president of the commission. − mr president, madam president of the council, honourable members, i will today focus on the economic agenda of this week’s meeting of the european council and the key role it plays in the next phase of our reform path. it is crucially important to be aware of the debate taking place across europe about the state of our economy. in each and every member state, political opinion is passionate, public expectations are high, and rightly so. over the last months and years, through consistent and courageous efforts at both european and national levels, we have come a long way to fight the root causes of this crisis and to pave the way for a sustainable future. but we have yet to tackle the most immediate fears and concerns of many of our citizens. we must do everything possible, at all levels, to help them out of the crisis. there is justified disappointment about the slow recovery of the real economy. growth as an eu average was lower than expected at the end of last year and will be close to zero this year. unemployment figures are unprecedented and simply unacceptable. this means we must strengthen our focus and our resolve to respond to this crisis; a response that also addresses the short term needs and does not lose sight of the structural reforms we have signed up to; reforms that we know are necessary and that will form the basis of future sustainable growth. we can see that the reform efforts for competitiveness are starting to bear fruit, correcting very important imbalances in the european economy – most importantly in the programme countries. indeed, the example of ireland, the country holding the rotating presidency of the council, is a good demonstration of this point. let us not forget that less than one year ago analysts were speaking of the implosion of the euro. but now we see an improvement in terms of financial stability: since their high point in 2009, budget deficits have come down by half and they are expected to get down to the 3 % limit by the end of the year, while the interest rates paid by a number of member states have gone down significantly. current account imbalances are being corrected, and exports in some of the least well-performing member states are reviving. we can also note the progress in terms of overall economic confidence, with consumer confidence for the euro area improving by 30 basis points over the last months, and business confidence by 20. however, good news in some key areas should not hide the fact that there has not been enough progress to address the issue of growth, notably in the real economy, and that there was a deterioration of the employment situation. let me say that, when i see the situation in some of our member states, it is clear to me that some of the costs paid by the most vulnerable in our societies are becoming simply unbearable. fair burden-sharing must be a core element of our policies. let us also not forget why we are in this situation: we are still feeling the effects of a sorry state of affairs that was fuelled by unsustainable public debt and private debt and by irresponsible behaviour by many in the financial sector. we all knew that the process of adjustment would always have a negative effect in the short term. however, we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past, accumulating new debt and leaving structural reforms for competitiveness for later. in fact, we are correcting those mistakes, and we have reason to show more self-confidence over the progress europe has made so far. in the past year alone we have agreed on the compact for growth and jobs, we have agreed the fiscal pact, we have inaugurated the european stability mechanism, the ecb’s outright monetary transactions was announced, we reached a unanimous agreement on the single supervisory mechanism and we brokered a deal on the so-called ‘two pack’. let me congratulate the european parliament on the approval, yesterday, of this very important package of legislation. we have put flesh on the bones of the european semester and we are continuing to go forward in terms of financial sector regulation. all these decisions have given a clear signal on the irreversibility and integrity of the euro, and have sent the right message about europe’s capacity to act. on top of that, the commission has presented its blueprint for a deep and genuine economic and monetary union, offering a vision of future developments and integration. we will not allow the momentum for the european union’s reform to slow down. the proper functioning of the emu requires that its governance structures are completed, in particular in the area of economic policy coordination and support to structural reforms. that will be the focus of the june european council, and we are already working on specific measures and a time-bound road map on the ex-ante coordination of major economic reforms; on the social dimension of the emu, including the social dialogue; and on a framework for mutually agreed contracts for competitiveness and growth, combined with the respective solidarity mechanisms. at the same time, we are pursuing the social agenda as an integral part of our strategy to exit the crisis. the position we took in the mff discussions consistently made the same point: that the european investment agenda needs also to focus on solidarity and growth, aiming funds at those who need our support the most. the youth employment initiative, the youth employment package which includes the youth guarantee scheme and the social investment package are just a few examples. let us be honest, we need short term measures to reinforce the perspectives for growth. implementation of the compact for growth and jobs is too low and too slow. there has not yet been enough commitment to address social obligations and we have to be sensitive to social needs. just yesterday, the commission adopted a package of measures on making effective the youth employment initiative and has amended the relevant legislative proposals for the european social fund and the common provision regulation on structural funds. the commission has acted very quickly on youth unemployment. these measures include the eur 6 billion agreed at the february european council meeting to combat youth unemployment. it is now up to the council and european parliament to examine these texts rapidly and adopt them in order to deliver quick and concrete results. with this initiative, i hope that new momentum can be generated at national and regional level to give hope to our young people. at this point in time, when the crisis is particularly hard on them, we cannot and will not let our youngest generations down. i want to stress that there should not be any contradiction between the social and the competitiveness agenda. indeed, we can see that the most successful member states in the european union, indeed some of the most successful in the world, are those member states with the most effective social protection systems, but this is possible because of their high level of competitiveness, and we should be equally committed to both goals. improving competitiveness is not an end in itself, but a means to drive prosperity and sustain european living standards and values. competitiveness is an indispensable element to underpin growth and jobs. efforts at european level can never be an alternative to national reforms and investments. in terms of productivity, we see that the best performing member states are twice as productive as the lowest performers. we guide and support them towards closing the gap, but the real groundwork has to come from the member states themselves. it is important that the european council strongly endorses the priorities and actions outlined in the commission’s annual growth survey for 2013, pursuing growth-friendly and tailor-made fiscal consolidation in all member states, focused on restoring normal lending to the economy and modernising public administration. the structural reforms for competitiveness and the measures against unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, deserve special attention in the design of the national reform programmes. in particular, the political push to fill the gaps in the single market should be maintained because there are still too many and too significant gaps in the single market; gaps that hamper competitiveness; gaps that restrict opportunities and that cost jobs. the single market is just one – but a fundamental – source of growth in the real economy; there are other very important ones. we also need an mff for the next seven years, to ensure the investments europe badly needs and, since our trade policy is part of our growth agenda, i would also like to once again underline the significance of the decision to start negotiations with the us on a transatlantic trade and investment partnership. the commission agreed the draft negotiating mandate yesterday, and we will continue to push hard to bring these economically very promising talks to a successful conclusion. we would like to receive the mandate of the council as soon as possible so that we could start negotiations by the summer. we will need such new sources of growth just as we will have to further unleash the potential of our internal sources. honourable members, let me conclude by saying that this issue is a reminder of the fact that, despite our economic and also political worries, we should not turn inwards. our efforts towards competitiveness and growth are, of course, about the economy, about urgent social needs, but also about our position and influence in the world; about our values and how we support them internally and internationally – about the european way of life. that is why, in spite of all our difficulties, or precisely because of them, we need the confidence that is indispensable for the process of recovery. this is why we must show the leadership necessary to recognise the obstacles, but also to show the determination to overcome those obstacles.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, madam president of the council, in ten years' time, when academics write their last edition of the history of the european union, i believe that march 2013 will be a pivotal date. today, the decisions we make will shape our future. we are at a crossroads in our history and it is time to make a decision. are we continuing to build a more efficient, more responsible and more protective europe? or, with an intergovernmental approach, are we venturing down the path of withdrawal into ourselves, which is rather, i would say today, in the period we are living in, an easy solution and to which it is rather difficult to open up? we will never solve a crisis by turning in on ourselves. this is the message we need to get across. that choice is ours. some people ask what europe is for. they're always the same. the same as we heard last month in the council negotiations. ladies and gentlemen, europe needs europe more than ever! last week i was in greece and i saw that we are missing europe very much. a lot of europe! here too parliament must reflect and make proposals. mr. farage, i saw your daughter, your son, or my children, come in asking for lunch and asking if they could have an extra piece of bread for their children. it touches me deeply. european solidarity must be shown at this level. (applause) i would like to thank europe needs europe more than ever. because our continent will not emerge stronger from the crisis if we are not more european. we need more coherence, more common policies, more common investments and more common tools. we are faced with unemployment, which in some cases affects more than 60% of our young people, and with growth that is not picking up. we still need to do things in the common market and in the rules. there's still potential growth in that file. we need more consistency and we need to work together with those who want to. those who don't want to choose it. we're not in forced labor. but we have a duty to move forward with those who want to. in a world where everything is tied up, i say it's more than necessary. my dear colleagues, i hear those who accuse us of taking our pride in ourselves or those who i think of and who say we are sweet dreamers. i would remind you - i know this is an old joke - that europe has brought us 60 years of peace and prosperity. it's old, but our ambition is unique. the same approach must now be applied to ensure that, like the founding fathers, other european successes in the field of research, innovation and employment are sustained. i believe, then, that we shall continue what has been predicted and done by the fathers of europe. we are not naive. we know that the union budget will not solve everything, or even much of it. that is why, through the six-pack, the european semester, the two-pack, we have worked towards greater economic integration and greater transparency. what is needed now is more tax and social harmonization. if we do not make this proposal and this step forward, at the moment we are in crisis, if tomorrow there is a small light, everyone will drop everything. to have more social - and i agree with the president of the commission - the economy must work. we cannot continue to go into debt, it is true, but we must all look at this matter. that's why we looked at the banking sector. we must also pay attention to pay, and we must set a ceiling on premiums, given what is happening with the crisis. because we must put a stop to artificial gains made by taking risky risks for which we pay later. we do this because we believe in real growth, the kind that creates real jobs and that comes from the real economy. ladies and gentlemen, the commitments for the mff are negotiable. we cannot accept the idea of an endless crisis. that is why we are asking for a review clause. we want this clause to enable the european parliament, when it comes to the polls in 2014, to debate with the council and take stock of our savings and priorities and to have at least one budget per parliamentary year. it is also necessary to optimise each euro of the mff, to ensure that it is well used. that is why we need more flexibility between years and budget lines. finally, we must put an end to this horrible bargaining that happens every seven years. that is why we call for a system of own resources. ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon there will be a debate with the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy. we are facing many crises, the syrian crisis and others, but if we want to have the capacity to act beyond our borders, we must also pool our resources at european level. the cfp also aims to give europe the means to spread its universal message. our parliament, through its proposals and its votes, has always acted in this direction and must act even more strongly in this direction to show the way at council level. we believe in this europe, a europe which must be solidary and responsible, a europe of peace and prosperity but, above all, a europe which protects our citizens. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam, as an alsatian, i am an admirer of austria. that's the answer i can give you.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr verhofstadt, i will be very brief. i have received, with the proper humility, the objections of mr verhofstadt to hungary. but if i remember correctly, mr verhofstadt was prime minister of the kingdom of belgium when the main opposition force, the vlaams blok, was simply wiped out after an unfair judicial procedure. in belgium, the banana kingdom of which you were prime minister! and you dare to give lessons in democracy, mr verhofstadt.
no, please! the question is 2004! and you were prime minister.
for the greens/efa group mr president, first of all i would like to join the request of the chairmen of both groups that you should speak to the european council. the arguments have been developed. i do not need to repeat myself on hungary. now, i would say that we should, once, among ourselves, come to the conclusion of this permanent discussion between: "we need budgetary responsibility" - guy verhofstadt calls this the first way - "we need mutualisation and solidarity" - i call this the second way; he developed what we call mutualisation, and "we need a third way, a different way, which is smart growth", which means we need to revive the economy. the debate on budgetary responsibility must be about the pace at which it is achieved. it is now clear that forcing the economy to take responsibility for its budget is tantamount to strangling it. and there's a price to pay. the more budgetary responsibility is forced upon us, the more poor and precarious societies we will find. so this is the price that citizens pay for this forced march. we should not say 'no budgetary responsibilities', we should simply say 'slow down and get the economy moving again'. what's the problem? we are now coming to the european budget. the european budget is helping to speed up the forced march which will have the effect of increasing the number of the uncertain and the poor, because we will not have the capacity to intervene on a european scale. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must reject this proposal from the council. we must be consistent. we have to take responsibility. ladies and gentlemen, here in this parliament we are elected from different parties, but we are not the transmission belts of our national parties or our governments. we are not that, we were not elected members of the european parliament to represent our governments. the council does. in national parliaments, they do. here we must develop the idea of the general european interest. and the general european interest is precisely a revival, a smart growth, a new industrial policy for europe. when you give young people a guarantee of promotion, be serious! we need money. if you have 50% of young unemployed in spain, it is not with a guarantee that you are going to satisfy them, but by offering them something material. europe would be great if it were able to meet the anxieties of young people in a material way. you need a budget for that. the european council decided otherwise. take this budget! all that innovation, training, all that has been swept away. mr barroso, we have taken you seriously. you have made a serious proposal for a multiannual european budget, but either you have done nothing, or you are serious. if it was serious, you can't say yes to what the council decided. you can't say yes. it's the opposite of what you're saying. in these circumstances, moreover, the president of this parliament is forced to sign a deficit budget, which is contrary to the treaties. but everyone knows that with this year's budget and next year's budget, europe will be in default next autumn. europe will not be able to pay, even with the ceilings decided. so do not just say yes to the resolution today, but be prepared to reject the multiannual budget in june, so that the european council and the european governments will finally understand that this cannot go on. that is where the european interest lies. that is what we, the members of the european parliament, must do in the months ahead.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. first of all, i'm glad you're so familiar with my past. i'm honored by that. but secondly, i would like to say that, for example, a youth unemployment insurance for the first six months, which would be paid for by the european union, is something concrete because, for example, in spain or in a country like greece, there is simply no longer any social protection. he's not here! and there are no opportunities for unemployed young people who have never had a job, no protection, anything that we have in other social countries like germany, france, austria - like the lady who was so happy about it - i therefore say that there is a need to pay a minimum level of social protection from the european budget during a transitional period when the national states are no longer able to do so because of the crisis.
mr president, i want justice to be done. i was the first to ask for a secret ballot. and the one who showed me the way was the vice-president, mr mcmillan-scott, on the vote on strasbourg. otherwise, i wouldn't have even considered it possible. it is therefore now part of our right as the european parliament. i asked for it. in this case, i'm not asking you to. i want to know who the anti-europeans are, i want to know their names, in view of the next elections, that's all.
mr president, there is something frightening about seeing normally intelligent and educated people like my alsatian colleague, mr daul, my former fellow student at the university of nanterre, mr cohn-bendit, mr verhofstadt and so many others, take stock, at least in part, of the current economic, social, institutional, moral and political catastrophe and propose only one thing, only one remedy: to continue on the same path towards more europe. but, ladies and gentlemen, you have had more than europe. after the treaties, you had the single act. after the single act, you had the maastricht treaty. after maastricht, you had the treaty of amsterdam. after the amsterdam treaty, you had the treaty of nice. after the treaty of nice, you had the treaty of lisbon. and it's getting worse! so, once and for all, follow the advice of one of my colleagues whom i heard yesterday crying out loud and loud that we should consult the citizens; it's true that it was an extension of an airport... ask ye among the nations, and set your bag by the way, and consider, and know, if ye will not walk in the way of evil, and in the way of iniquity, that leadeth to destruction.
mr president, this next council meeting must conclude the first phase of the 2013 european semester for the coordination of the budgetary and economic policies of the member states. the first thing we can expect from it is that it does not come to add austerity to austerity, advocating a deficit reduction timetable that leaves the member states bloodless. it would be unacceptable for the council conclusions to be geared towards a set of measures so drastic that they would prevent member states from undertaking structural reforms, which are essential for recovery. several months ago, the not so leftist think tank bruegel already called on the commission to postpone the deadline for return to normal by one year because of the low or even zero growth in many eurozone countries and the recessionary risk of too tight an adjustment. this is not a theoretical debate on the coordination of budgetary policies. the question here is to give ourselves the means of solidarity. that is what we socialists and social democrats are trying to achieve by putting solidarity first. solidarity with the unemployed, the young, the most deprived and, more generally, with all the sections of the population hardest hit by the crisis. as i said, the first step is to adjust the timetables, but we can go further by making a commitment to provide the european budget with genuine own resources to free itself from purely state logic. we are also not going to lower our standards in terms of excluding investment from the calculation of the structural deficit, in particular the investment which is the contribution of the member states to the union budget. i listened carefully to mr barroso when he said: 'growth is the means of raising the standards and living standards of social life in europe.' i believe that the commission must make every effort to ensure that the balance between recovery and growth is the key to our success and, at the same time, the possibility of a return to hope for europeans.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, we are solving the problems of financial stability. that's good news. there is the problem of growth. we know that growth, we will not get it through public spending. so we'll have it through the real economy. three thoughts. first, the efficiency and effectiveness of public spending. i repeat that we could check whether it would not be possible to make savings by pooling resources at european, national and local levels. and i propose an independent audit, to be carried out by the european court of auditors and the 27 national auditors, to see if we could not save money. 27 armies, no more enemies, uncoordinated research programs funded, hundreds of diplomatic buildings all over the planet, uncoordinated development programs as well. second idea, let's go back to the idea of a big investment plan in infrastructure, railways, aviation, space, energy, water, digital. one to 1.5 trillion. we do not think enough about tolls, about guarantees, about all the financial resources that exist beyond the european union's own resources. the last point is social convergence. how can we meet the expectations of the people if we are not able, for example, to ensure convergence of our social minimum standards? the former communist countries still have minimum wages of between 200 and 300 euros. we should be ashamed of ourselves. i hope that by rejecting the proposals of the european council, our parliament will get the budget for the european fund for the most deprived reinstated. we should be ashamed of ourselves for cutting this program; this house will restore funds to the most needy.
mr president, the european union is sick of its budget. it is too small to be useful for the necessary policies and it is too big to be bearable by those who finance it. its distribution is explained by history. she leaves only marginal sums to prepare for the future. his current funding condemns him to a slow asphyxiation and, ultimately, his adoption procedure has been completely derailed. the multiannual framework was originally designed to guarantee the sustainable financing of the major european policies, and it is now the framework that prevents any financing of genuine common policies. president van rompuy called on parliament to take its responsibilities. today, it is the responsibility of parliament to say quietly 'no'. no to this division of the european budget into 27 national budgets! no to choices which, behind a dark and learned presentation, preserve the privileges of the strong countries in europe and shamefully sacrifice the countries in difficulty who are making the greatest sacrifices. on the contrary, we must support growth and competitiveness! yes to a true solidarity in europe! yes to a budget financed by 500 million taxpayers and benefiting 500 million citizens. the question at stake in the negotiations now under way is whether the council is prepared to share these 'yeses'.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i simply want to ask the commission whether it accepts the amendments which parliament has just voted on.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, i thank you for your reaction. in these circumstances, i propose that the european parliament, on the basis of rule 57 (2), postpone the final vote on the legislative resolution in order to begin, on the basis of the amended proposal, the informal negotiations with the council.
mr president, i shall be very brief on this point of order. although we are in the middle of lent, we must listen to our stomachs and be inspired by what is happening in rome, where, despite the complexity of the votes, we have fixed lunch times. i therefore propose that we suspend the vote and resume it at 11 a.m. tomorrow, which will give us time to conclude.
mr president, i have a point of order to make. the rules of this house state that members must behave with dignity in the chamber. since this morning, there are people working on their work chain. there are people on the roads to keep everyone safe. there are people working in the snow and in the cold. they work and they don't constantly ask that we stop voting, when they have acceptable working conditions. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, madam high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, ladies and gentlemen, in egypt - as a number of my colleagues have pointed out - it was the minorities, women and young people who, in the name of respect for human rights, pushed the dictatorship of hosni mubarak out of political life. i see today that the situation for these minorities is getting worse by the day. women are in a worse situation than they were before the revolutions began. the muslim brotherhood has taken power and does not respect women's rights in any way. worse, they mock them in the name of an ideology and so-called islamic morality. at a time when anti-morsi protests are growing and tensions are at their highest, the number of rape victims in egypt is growing and, according to official statements, it seems that the perpetrators of these rapes are the women themselves. reda al-hefnawy, a member of the freedom and justice party, which belongs to the muslim brotherhood group, recently said that: "women should not mix with men during protests. how can you ask the ministry of interior to protect a woman who is in the middle of a group of men?" salafist general afifi adds: "women sometimes attract rape by putting themselves in a situation that makes them targets of rape". this is the situation that egyptian women are facing today. this is the result of a long and difficult revolution which they have carried out with determination for respect for human rights. we must act in the face of this position of the egyptian regime. we, the members of the european parliament, a legislative and democratic body, must encourage egypt to introduce anti-discrimination laws. the european union must encourage the security forces to apprehend and bring to justice those responsible for such acts. we must also call for an end to all police brutality and encourage police forces to do what they are supposed to do: protect civilians. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank all who have contributed to this really important debate. what has been so valuable in this is the recognition that, for every member who has spoken, what happens in egypt is understood to be of real importance to the european union. these are our neighbours – 85 million people who are on a journey whose destination we want to help them reach and support to ensure that it encompasses the values that we hold. we believe that is the reason the egyptian people started out on the journey. the ‘more for more’ principle is a real one. the eur 5 billion is not money that we have got sitting in a suitcase somewhere. these are contributions from the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development. they are mainly loans, not gifts, and they are done on the basis of the work that is done by the egyptian authorities to make an agreement with the imf. in other words, they are deeply conditional. without that conditionality, of course, they would not be prepared to put their money into egypt. when we did the taskforce, one of the key objectives was to try to bring together all of the different potential investors in egypt – private sector and public sector – in a more sensible format to make it clear to the egyptian authorities that there was a genuine commitment to try to help and support them. but they also had to do things to ensure that support was forthcoming, both economically and politically. that is what it is all about. so the money is waiting and will be made available but it does depend on agreements with the imf and, just as importantly, the movement on the political dialogue which so many of you have spoken about. i want to be clear what it is because there was obviously some misconception. i hope that makes you feel more comfortable about that. in everything that we do with the egyptian authorities – sometimes in a very lively way and sometimes very quietly – we are absolutely clear about our view on where they are trying to go and how they are moving forward. i have talked with president morsi and with his team about some of the things that they have been doing. sometimes i do not do it in a very public way. you would not expect me to. you would expect me to be able to talk with them quietly, just as when secretary of state kerry went. he did the same. there is a public dialogue and there is also a very important private dialogue going on. but when it comes to issues like the death penalty, i have all my life stood up for the same principle that this european union believes in, namely, that it is fundamentally wrong. i have said that publicly many times and i will say it again. of course, they should look again at the death sentences and they should of course commute them without question. you believe that and i believe that, so i do not know why it has been suggested that i have not said things when i clearly have. it is very important that we continue the regular visits. i go – i have been to egypt i think 12 times since i took office – but many colleagues go every week. we go to talk about the economic questions and the political issues. as i have said, stavros lambrinidis went to talk in particular about the issues of human rights and to meet with them. we were pleased when they asked us to send expertise and advice on this ngo law for all the reasons that have been indicated here. i am very concerned about what is happening with women in egypt. i was very concerned when helga schmidt came back at the weekend and contacted me to tell me the stories that she had heard. many of you have heard them too. we do everything we can to support women – as we have done throughout – to give them independence and certainty in their future. that is why, with un women, we did the programme of support for id cards which enable women to open bank accounts, to be distinct and separate, to get healthcare themselves, to be reliant on no one but themselves and to be able to function effectively in their communities. it is a real problem in the urban communities and also in rural communities. president morsi knows that one of the first issues i always raise with him is what is happening to women. it is not only fundamentally important for all the values we hold, but if the economy is going to go forward, grow and develop, they are going to need the intelligence, wisdom and support of the women in the community as well. it is, as i say in my colloquial language, a ‘no-brainer’ to understand that. we also know that this journey is extremely difficult. i agree with all that has been said about ensuring that we are supporting religious minorities. the coptic christians have been mentioned several times and we are in touch with them. our delegations talk with them a great deal and we work with them in the way that they ask us to because it is also very important, when working with different communities, that we do it in a way that is sensitive to how they wish us to act. we would always do that. that is what we do. this country is embarking on a long journey. it is a very difficult time. my analysis is that we in the european union have to try to work and support the people of egypt – and i emphasise the people of egypt. they have had their elections, they have made their choices and they will continue to do that, but as i have said so many times, this is about building a democracy that is not about one election. it is about the elections in 20, 30 and 50 years. it is about knowing that the institutions are going to make sure that democracy is real and about the protection of people’s rights. i will continue to work, not only in egypt but everywhere i possibly can, to try to achieve that because that is what this union more than anything else for me is all about. i also just wanted to say that i have mentioned the slovakian woman and the little boy many times when i have been in egypt and made clear that i had done so when i was in bratislava a week or so ago. i would just say to mr van orden that i have actually replied to his letter. i know that i have signed it and i apologise if it has not reached him. i would just say on hezbollah – which i know is not part of this conversation – that we have information from bulgaria. there are preliminary indications. i asked them again on monday and they say it is progressing. we have started the conversation, but you will appreciate that we are waiting for more information from them before we can go forward in any way. honourable members, please do everything you can, with all the contacts you have, to support the people of egypt in the way that you do. please make contact with the women and please continue your contacts with religious groups. please continue to say the good things that we want to see happen in egypt. we want them to succeed. we want these people to have a real future and we will do everything we can to stand with them and support them in that journey. that is what we should do.
in writing. this debate comes at a crucial time for egypt. the situation is critical: the draft constitution is still not ready, the elections have just been postponed and the institutions are weakening; the economy, especially the tourism sector, is slowing down. the human rights situation is particularly deteriorating; freedom of association, belief and press are violated every day. finally, there is the situation of women: they are subjected to violence, aggression and the degradation of their rights on a daily basis. timing is crucial, but so is our attitude. we must encourage the egyptians to find quickly the path that will lead them to stability in the country. this means continuing the constitutional work, stabilising national institutions, which will improve the business climate and promote economic recovery. moreover, it is imperative that the egyptian government re-establish dialogue with the citizens. we must then reassure them: we know this, we can all cite examples from the history of our respective countries, the road to democracy is long and the temptations to 'go back' are many. let us be on our guard!
for the greens/efa group mr president, i believe mrs ashton was speaking today about humanitarian neutrality and she added this sentence: 'i hope that humanitarian law will be respected by all parties.' it's really what they call "paying with words". the principle of neutrality is being pulverized by the partiality of our humanitarian aid delivery on the ground - i will not go back on that. you have, however, heard the story of the trucks arriving at the damascus airport and sending all the humanitarian aid to the areas that are controlled by the regime? i hope you're told things like that. so let us stop talking about neutrality for a moment and try to actually provide impartial help, which is far from the case. you say that all parties could respect humanitarian law when you are faced with a regime led by assad. he's shooting at hospitals like they're military targets. he's killing doctors like they're fighters. he's sending scuds at his people. he's systematically destroying bakeries to create famine. your hopes - i'm sorry to say, mrs ashton - are therefore totally vain and denied every morning on the ground. so perhaps we should - as you can see from the horrors that are happening on the ground - try to change the approach a little. and perhaps a slight change of approach is to consider that in the areas that are being liberated today, there is this post-assad syria that is being built, through the initiative of local councils, by the coalition that, day after day, restores basic services. here and there, there are quite interesting examples: drinking water, flour, bread, health services, justice and even a court that continues its work in the liberated zone of aleppo, the judiciary council that is going to be re-established... so we must look at the post-assad syria that is being built and we must help it. we have to help him! then we have to stop scaring ourselves and telling ourselves stories. what is asl? the description was given last week in the european parliament. that's 300,000 people, 100,000 of whom are armed. of those 300,000, there are 5,000 islamists and jihadists. and of those 5,000, 4,500 are syrians and 500 are from abroad. let's stop projecting our fantasies on the syrian situation and work seriously. yes, we must... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, on the one hand we have the worst war in history, a civil war, in syria, and on the other hand we have the international community, which i find absolutely powerless to act. and it seems to me that we should focus here on what we can and what we must do. there are two emergencies. of course, the humanitarian emergency, everyone has been talking about it. we must - as hélène flautre said very well earlier - provide humanitarian aid in the liberated areas, and this is extremely concrete, through the coalition and the fsa. and that is, in fact, absolutely possible. secondly, we need to do more to help the refugees in the camps in the neighbouring countries around syria. i visited a number of these camps. of course, the flow of refugees is constantly increasing and these countries need our help and additional help. and this, again, is concrete. i am thinking in particular of lebanon, which is in an absolutely catastrophic situation. thirdly, on the humanitarian front, we can also act by showing solidarity, as the european union, by improving, for example, the treatment of asylum seekers and the reception of refugees in our own country, within the european union. and then there is a second emergency, which is obviously the political emergency. the arab league has called on the syrian national coalition to appoint an executive body and participate in the arab summit in doha. i would have liked to have heard mrs ashton's views on this initiative. i consider it very important that the syrian opposition forces should have a real government and i consider it essential that we should exert all our influence and that the european union should work with them to ensure that this opposition includes and integrates all ethnic and religious communities in its political project for syria. this is the only way to bring people together as widely as possible and to avoid the intercommunal violence that will be the order of the day in a syria that i hope will be free of his regime. that is one of the conditions, it seems to me, for winning the war tomorrow, and it is one of the conditions for winning peace.
mr president, today's syria is a country of 70,000 dead, two and a half million internally displaced persons and a million refugees in neighbouring countries. the humanitarian situation in syria is catastrophic and dramatic and the aid provided is paltry in relation to the needs. the worst thing is the children. two million syrian children are suffering from malnutrition, disease and multiple traumas. what action do you envisage for them? the list of dead grows longer, while europe is hesitating between the us and swiss agendas. the union must quickly and firmly mobilise all the actors for an effective and lasting solution to the crisis. a strong political will from the eu would save lives and bring about a political solution to the syrian crisis. i call on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to conclude an agreement on humanitarian aid as a matter of urgency, allowing people to access convoys across borders and front lines and guaranteeing the safety of humanitarian workers, medical facilities and patients.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the last time we discussed the situation in mali, on 15 january, the situation was in full crisis. i want to explain the progress made since then, the european union’s role in it, the challenges that remain, and what we are doing to support mali – and the region – in overcoming them, so that the people of mali can live in peace and security and return to the path of development. i must pay tribute first of all to the efforts and sacrifices of one member state, france, in driving the terrorists out of the cities and regions of the north, taking the battle to their retreats in the northern mountains. i pay tribute also to all those who have provided support to that effort, whether european, african or american, in particular the armed forces of chad, who have made a significant sacrifice. thanks to these efforts, the people of northern mali have been liberated from control by the terrorists, but we must not underestimate the threat that remains. this requires security forces to remain present and active, to head off potential terrorist attacks in the future. but the situation is now very different. we are today acting on all fronts in a coordinated manner. this is an illustration of what a comprehensive approach is all about and how we turned it into concrete actions. since the extraordinary foreign affairs council in january, we have convened two crisis platforms, with all eu services involved, in order to produce a comprehensive overview of our activities – covering the european union training mission, our support to the african-led international support mission to mali (afisma) and a quick identification of a stabilisation and development package. we have also immediately deployed in the field an inter-service mission to support our delegation in bamako. this has made it possible to identify european union activities in the field of stabilisation and development, but also to start implementing them. our work involves liaising diplomatic activity with security and policy development in a mutually reinforcing way. on the security side, our long-term objective is to enable the malian security services and armed forces to protect their own citizens. this is why we accelerated the planned launch of the eu training mission to 18 february. the force commander is there and the first counselling actions have already taken place. if things go according to plan, training of forces should begin in april. this has required great effort on the part of the member states, but there has been a real collective will to act. with this training mission, we aim to help the re-structuring of the armed forces to ensure their effectiveness and we plan to make sure that human rights is part of the training of the malian troops. united nations human rights experts are already in the field and we are also working with the african union to provide monitors to afisma forces. it is encouraging that mali has withdrawn five of its troops from timbuktu following accusations of human rights abuses. this must be taken seriously. there are still challenges in re-equipping the malian forces, but we are working on it. it will take time for the malian forces to be ready. the european union is therefore supporting afisma with eur 50 million, committed at the fund-raising meeting hosted by the african union on 29 january 2013. a number of member states are helping train and equip afisma troop-contributing countries. as you know, converting afisma into a un-hatted force would assure future funding. the discussions on such an option are presently going on in new york, where the united nations secretary general should report to the security council before the end of this month. on the political track, the high representative hosted a meeting in brussels of the international follow-up and support group on 5 february. the malian government presented its roadmap for the transition back to democratic and constitutional rule. the european union has pledged to support its implementation. on behalf of the high representative, i would like to stress two key elements. firstly, the establishment of the national commission for dialogue and reconciliation on 6 march, which should bring together all the different political forces in the country, including from the north, to discuss how to rebuild the country’s political structures on an inclusive basis. it is essential that the political structure is free of military influence and inspires the trust of all communities. secondly, the holding of presidential elections by end of july 2013, to re-establish a legitimate national government following the coup d’état a year ago, which interrupted the elections planned for april last year. legislative elections will follow later. we will provide assistance to the electoral process and, as you know, we are examining the possibility of an electoral observation mission. finally, on the development and stabilisation track: european union development ministers have agreed to gradually resume european union aid to mali. eur 250 million is available under the edf for state-building contract budget support and specific projects in the field of small irrigation and key infrastructure. an additional eur 20 million of fast-disbursing assistance is available from the instrument for stability to support the restoration of public authorities and services in post-conflict areas, for reconciliation activities and for the first phase of the electoral process. we will host two important meetings in the near future to support mali. in early april the high representative will co-chair, with ms bachelet, the un women’s envoy, and with romano prodi, the un special envoy for the sahel, a meeting on women in the sahel. their role will be vital in re-establishing a stable and viable future for the region. women’s rights and gender balance must be an integral part of everything we do. talent is wasted, wisdom is lost and economic opportunities are missed when a society refuses to break with inequality, whether in north africa, europe or indeed the sahel. secondly, in mid-may, the european union and france will convene in brussels a high level international conference on development in mali, to bring together the key donors to coordinate our support for the reconstruction of the country. the government of mali will present its 2013-14 national action plan as a basis for our collective action to help restore the economy and government services. the high representative is conscious that solving mali’s problems, in development and food resilience as much as in the struggle against terrorism and political exclusion, requires an approach that encompasses the whole sahel region. that is the principle underlying the eu’s strategy for security and development in the sahel, which remains as relevant as ever. in the same spirit, a european union special representative for the sahel is to be nominated in the coming days. the european union will remain heavily engaged and fully committed to mali and the region. it is in our interests to do so, as instability in the sahel can threaten our own citizens. so we will continue to help the people of mali in their efforts to re-establish their sovereignty, democracy and prosperity.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for paying tribute to the french soldiers who have been fighting in mali for two months now. it is true that among all the issues we are discussing today, which are extremely important issues, tragic for many of them, monopolizing almost eight hours of foreign policy debate, it should still be remembered that mali is the only one of these places where soldiers from a member state of the european union are fighting on behalf of the european union, since there is unanimous support from the twenty-seven, and fall. france has already lost four soldiers in what is a war. and i hope that in this year when the common security and defence policy is on the council's agenda, we will be able to reflect a little on the question of solidarity, because solidarity is not just financial measures, implemented in times of economic and social crises. it should also be mechanisms to help states that engage on behalf of others and lose soldiers on behalf of others on grounds of common interest, in the face of common threats. you spoke to us about stabilization and security, which are still extremely sensitive issues. this fight is far from over. i admit that i am wondering and a little worried about witnessing a un maintenance operation, because, if the un is necessary to give legitimacy to all these operations on a legal level, the efficiency, the operational side of the un chains of command have left us with only undying memories, where they were deployed. i wonder, therefore, how long this mechanism will take and how effective it will be in the field, in this pilot project which is still far from being completed. on the political process, as you mentioned, there are still many uncertainties. two months ago, at an extraordinary foreign affairs council, we were told that a special representative of the european union had been appointed, who would be in addition to a special representative of the united nations, who would be in addition to a special representative of the african union. i hope we do not embark on the all too well-known episodes of lack of coordination and dilution of responsibilities in this political process. the force of events that we unfortunately were unable to anticipate, with a sahel strategy that had been decided since 2011, has led us today to consider that mali is a priority area for the implementation of this famous global strategy, this global approach, which you boast of. let us never forget that the global approach, as we are implementing it today, is imposed on us. she's been through a lot. i hope that in the future, and in the very short term, the european union will do more than suffer, that it will be really proactive in implementing this comprehensive approach.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, the tuareg rebellion of january 2012, the islamist occupation of the north and the military coup have created a dramatic situation in mali. as of january 2012, at least 70 malian soldiers have been tortured and summarily executed. civilians are suffering from serious abuses: sexual abuse, the recruitment of children, executions, the destruction of precious cultural sites, thousands of displaced persons. for us, environmentalists, there is no such thing as clean war. and those who take responsibility for the armed offensive must know that they take responsibility for the destruction and violence against civilians and, above all, against women. since the launch of operation serval, abuses by members of the malian military have been reported. the un mission denounces reprisals against certain ethnic groups. the french minister of defence, jean-yves le drian, called on the malian command to be extremely vigilant. the truth must be revealed and justice must be served on all those responsible for all the crimes committed since january 2012. for more than a year, the old demons of ethnic hatred between black and white malians have been awakened in this vast area deserted by all the officials. the institutions which could prevent the outbreaks of radicalization of ethnic groups are lacking: the police, the judiciary, education. in order to help the malian people to achieve peace, the european union could assist the malian authorities in the process of redeploying public services in the north and, in addition, organise a number of services, such as a telephone hotline to receive testimonies from victims, instruct the malian national human rights commission to monitor oral and written statements to detect incitement to ethnic violence, and organise an awareness-raising campaign involving the various communities and religious leaders. the benefits of the utm mission you mentioned, commissioner, will only be felt in the long term. and now is the time to act to secure the lives of the malian people.
mr president, france is committed to mali and i, of course, support its action as do all of us here. but the question of the stability of the sahel, the question of the fight against the jihadists, is not only france's business, it is obviously the business of all of us europeans. i think that we, europe and the member states, must act in at least three directions to achieve this. militarily, france is in the front line. that has been said, but i think it is right to expect concrete and tangible signs of solidarity from the member states and the european union. certainly some of them are present or supplying equipment, but surely more can be done, better, and finally give substance to the concept of european defence on the ground. secondly, on the humanitarian and development front. the problem is not so much, as you know, the question of refugees who are now being welcomed in what we are told are apparently decent conditions in the refugee camps of neighbouring countries. the real issue is the deterioration of the situation in northern mali, the economic situation in particular. trade routes are cut off, supplies are no longer available, and so the nutritional situation is deteriorating dangerously. add to this the fact that the local economy, that is to say the livestock farmers, the farmers - who are already a very fragile economy - is completely broken. we must therefore intervene in the development of this northern part of mali, which the malian state cannot do. finally, on the political level, it is clear that national reconciliation is an obligation and that the opening of a national dialogue before the elections is a necessity. the government announced the establishment of a dialogue and reconciliation commission; this is obviously a step in the right direction. but what europe has to say is that we expect the malian political leaders, beyond the setting up of this national forum, which is a very good thing, to really create the conditions for dialogue and national unity, by addressing all the issues, the issues of the malian army and the abuses we discussed yesterday, and also by integrating, alongside the need to build a strong state, the need for a process of decentralization. peace will only be achieved if the coming together of all is made possible.
mr president, i have just returned from mali as part of the acp-eu mission, where i was with our colleague, mr louis michel, and mrs françoise castex. the analysis i make of this is that for 20 years there have been democratic elections in mali. mali was even seen as an example of democracy. and yet, there was the coup and the war by terrorist groups. we must analyse the failure of economic development, which has delegitimised political democracy. indeed, a quarter of mali's population lives outside the country and people have not seen the benefits of democracy in their daily lives. young people are leaving the country, risking their lives, because they have no future and are likely to be recruited by terrorist groups. the country has its strengths, both in agriculture and in the mining sector. there are gold mines in mali. and it is precisely the need for the dialogue and reconciliation commission that the transitional government and president traoré want to set up to focus on economic development, to analyse the failures of the past in order to learn from them and to draw up new economic bases, in the face of the liberalisation of international trade that they want to impose on them and which has led this country to failure.
mr president, france intervened in mali at the request of the malian government to prevent bamako from falling into the hands of the drug traffickers, and we welcome this. today, the situation in mali is as follows: we have an international intervention force which is putting in place mechanisms to rebuild the country. the development conference that is about to be set up should be welcomed. the establishment of the committee on dialogue and reconciliation is also to be welcomed. this committee should promote inter-malian dialogue, which should make it possible to find a political solution to the current crisis in that country. there will be no military solution in mali. all parties in mali must take part in the debate in order to find a political solution. institutional mali, as it was, has lived. we must now bring all parties together to find a political solution to the situation in that country.
mr president, as my colleagues louis michel and michèle rivasi have said, the mission we have just carried out in bamako on behalf of acp-eu cooperation confirms the few priorities and urgencies that are necessary. i'll call back two. firstly, with the situation in mali, the european union and the entire international community are faced with a real challenge to deal with terrorism. in our speeches we regularly emphasize the fight against terrorism. we have a real opportunity in mali to act and if we do not, we will be responsible for what happens in the whole region. france must not be left alone in this military operation and, more than ever, we urgently need a europe of defence. the second point is that the aggression which mali is suffering from is a threat to the whole region. the european union must take the initiative in a global, that is to say, regional response by calling for a regional conference to deal with all the issues: security, the fight against terrorism, the fight against drug trafficking, crime and, of course, economic development and the strengthening of democracy, without which there will be no security.
mr president, mr füle, first of all i would like to know your approach, your analysis, on the question of the tuareg people, the berber people who live in mali, but more generally, more globally, in the sahel. secondly, i would like to stress a point which has not been addressed by my colleagues: the essential role of the malian diaspora in europe. it plays an important and even indispensable role in financing projects and helping many families who would otherwise be even poorer, but also in passing on its fine knowledge of the country, the malian territory. it is important in our strategy to integrate these actors, who are indispensable mediators. will you do that, commissioner füle? and how is that?
the commissioner, the rapporteur, regina bastos, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, recalled the history of the file since the withdrawal of the commission's proposal in 2005, when we need a statute for mutual societies to take account of the specific nature of these organisations so as to enable them to be full-fledged players in the internal market of the european union. the mutual fund people got the message. as early as 2008, they made proposals for the elaboration of this famous european statute. today, we know the context. there is in this house, apart from the study which the commission has finally launched, a plea for a statute for mutual societies. we find this in the impact study commissioned by the committee on employment and social affairs. we find this in the study on european added value, which was carried out by the services of this parliament. finally, we find it, with a very strong basis, in the report we are going to adopt today. on that basis, commissioner, you give the impression that there is still a possibility of fluctuation, that there are many options. what the mutualists ask of you - and they remain very much involved in completing a common approach - is a status. when i look at the consultation, i sometimes get the impression that you are trying to circumvent the ultimate goal of a status. however, if there is no mutual status, mutual societies will not have the capacity to have their own governance when they operate at european level. what is important in the case of mutual societies is their contribution to a social and solidarity-based economy, which we absolutely need if the european union is to achieve its objectives for the year 2020, but also the excellence of governance other than that of the capitalist enterprise. we therefore ask you, commissioner, to make a case for a statute for mutual societies on the basis of the work of this parliament.
the question is "blue cardboard". you say that outside this parliament no one is interested in the existence of a statutory system for mutual societies. i would simply like to bring to your attention a letter written by christian zahn, vice-president of the aim, in december 2012 to commissioner barnier, in which he clearly states that, on behalf of the 70 million germans who are covered by a mutual scheme, he wants such a statute to be adopted.
mr president, madam commissioner, this new mutual status, together with the one promised on the foundations, would complete the recognition of the social and solidarity economy enterprises by adding to the status of the cooperative. i would like to stress that the status of the european association, which is expected by thousands of structures in the european union and millions of volunteers, will still be lacking. what we want to stress is that it is urgent for the european union, for the european commission to recognise that there are several forms of enterprise, some of which are not governed by competition and profit, but by solidarity, by volunteering and by the sharing of risks and commitments. if we want to build a true european social model. speeches are not enough. we need action, and by creating the mutual status, we are setting an action plan for building the european social model.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, europol has only recently uncovered a vast criminal network responsible for rigging more than 380 football matches on european territory. 425 referees, players, club managers and major criminals were investigated and 50 people were arrested. it is therefore welcome that parliament has decided to take up the issue of sports betting. however, far from addressing the challenges of liberalisation of all betting and sports activities in general, the joint resolution merely lists good intentions and avoids proposing sustainable solutions for the sector. if we consider sport and physical activity as essential to the formation and health of the human being, at all stages of life, as a vehicle of emancipation for all, as an important element of respect for the other and of learning to live in society, then it is more than necessary to get out of a market logic that only pits men against each other and encourages the cheating of organized mafias, who have understood how much this sector of the sport business could serve their interests. it is also the same logic that leads clubs to spend more and more without counting and without any respect for the accounting rules in force. the european union and its member states should, in view of the above, at least work to ensure that sports betting is a state monopoly, as the judgment of the european court of justice of 8 september 2009 also emphasises, put in place strict financial control rules for the accounts of professional sports disciplines and teams, develop particularly severe laws for all these dream-breakers of children and challenge the liability of banks, which abuse support for clubs in near-bankruptcy. instead, parliament is content, once again, to remain at the stage of good intentions. it's a real shame. we will abstain.
mr president, last february europol dismantled a criminal network which had rigged more than 380 matches. we naturally congratulate europol on this unprecedented achievement. i would of course like to associate ecpol with this, which is doing a remarkable job in training police officers and i hope that this wonderful agency will continue to exist. i would also like to mention eurojust, which is doing a great deal of work in the fight against criminal networks. as you said, commissioner, it is often the mafia that is behind this kind of rigged betting. we welcome the proposal for an anti-money laundering directive which we hope will reach parliament very soon. we welcome with equal satisfaction, in the context of the fight against the mafia, the confiscation of property directive, which we hope will be adopted fairly quickly in parliament. it is also essential to invest in prevention and to establish ethical codes in sporting circles and, above all, a zero tolerance policy. however, young europeans are more likely to know the names of well-known, famous sportsmen. they know them better than the names of the great musicians and writers who have shaped their country's history. it is these sportsmen who are often the role models for these young people and they are admired throughout europe. sport moves entire crowds across europe and brings european citizens together around the same love of sporting performance. let's give sport its greatness and dignity!
in writing. this report highlights the impact of the 'arab spring' on the situation and role of women in north africa (egypt, libya, morocco and tunisia) since 2010. in a context of political and economic transition, i voted in favour of this report which calls on local authorities to include the principle of equality between men and women in their constitutions in order to expressly prohibit all forms of discrimination and violence against women. the report also calls for reform of existing legislation to include the principle of equality, so that in future there will be no discrimination in matters of marriage, parental rights, nationality or inheritance. i welcome this initiative which recalls the need to guarantee freedom of expression and religion, reaffirms the importance of pluralism and finally condemns female genital mutilation.
in writing. the events in north africa (egypt, libya, morocco and tunisia) since 2010 have had an impact on the situation of women in these countries. this report, which i supported, highlights the possibilities of using various union instruments to support equality between men and women in these countries. these countries must take advantage of the political transition process to include the principle of equality between men and women in their constitutional order and existing legislation, in order to express explicitly the prohibition of all forms of discrimination and violence against women and girls. we also need to support these countries to take legal steps to facilitate women's access to political office, health care, education.
in writing. i voted in favour of the costa report on the situation of women in north africa, as it calls on the european union to use different tools to promote gender equality in the countries of the region, which have been in the midst of a political transition since the events of 2010. the european parliament has therefore called for the rule of law and democracy in this report, by calling for fundamental principles such as freedom of men and women, freedom of expression and religion, pluralism, to be enshrined in the constitutional order of these countries, so that all forms of discrimination and violence against women are forcefully rejected.
in writing. i am pleased that a number of my proposals have been incorporated into this report. among these, i would like to highlight the role of training that some actors in the region can play. morocco is particularly committed to combating violence against women and to promoting girls' education. he is now a model in these fields in north africa.
in writing. the european union must pay particular attention to all the women who have been at the forefront of democratic uprisings from tunis to benghazi, from cairo to sanaa, and are now victims of the backlash of the revolutions. the new regimes in place have brought their own set of restrictions to the exercise of women's rights and, despite some legal achievements, discrimination, violence and the persistent lack of their participation in political and public life are a cause for great concern. we must commend the courage of journalists, intellectuals and citizens in arab societies who are fighting for women's rights and for real equality. transitions to democratic and pluralistic societies in the arab world cannot take place without the active participation of women in the political choices and orientations of their countries. a political regime which excludes women cannot claim to be democratic.
in writing. the european union had supported the uprising of the people in this area, but it also had to convey a message of respect for the aspirations of these people. as the processes of democratic and political transition are under way in these countries, women and their rights must not be forgotten in this political and social reorganization. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which supports women in north africa who are fighting for freedom, women's rights and gender equality. we can celebrate the successes for women since the arab spring of 2010. in the last tunisian elections, they won almost 27% of the seats in the constituent assembly. this figure is the envy of some european countries. similarly, in libya, 32 women were elected to the national congress. however, the difficulties remain for women and the reactionary trap can destroy these fine achievements. the biggest challenge is their participation in the drafting of future constitutions in these countries, which must explicitly refer to the principle of equality and put an end to violence against women. the instruments of the european union must support women in their quest for equality.
in writing. women, especially young women, have been deeply involved in the arab revolutions. as democracy is being established in these countries, it is important to reaffirm and protect women's rights, while enhancing their participation in decision-making at all levels of government. in this sense, every country must irreversibly enshrine the principle of equality between men and women in its constitution and firmly condemn all forms of violence against women. at the same time, women must achieve economic independence and be fully integrated into the labour market. the eu supports these actions through its neighbourhood policy and specific aid of €92 million. the aim is to increase this aid in the countries of north africa and to provide technical and financial support to civil society. in this respect, the union for the mediterranean and the european fund for democracy must play a role in the development of the situation of women in north africa. i voted in favour of this report because i am in full agreement with its proposals and i would like to see them implemented quickly.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the situation of women in north africa, which highlights the key role of women in the popular movements of the so-called 'arab spring' while stressing the risks to their place in these regions, which are far from being up to the democratic momentum that emerged at the beginning of 2011. today discrimination against women persists and many threats to women's rights are being made. the women's civil struggle is thus struggling to be recognized and to be transformed into political action. women's rights are indeed at the heart of the ongoing democratic processes, particularly with regard to how the religious issue is dealt with in constitutional revisions; they are a prerequisite for their success. the report also emphasises the need to put gender equality at the heart of the eu's relations with the countries of north africa and to promote the empowerment of women in these regions through sustainable actions. however, this must not be a mere display product and economic and social issues, viewed through the same prism as within the union, must not reduce these efforts to zero.
in writing. the 11th european development fund (edf) is the main instrument for allocating european cooperation and development aid to african, caribbean and pacific countries, and in particular to the overseas countries and territories (octs) associated with the eu. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report preparing the multiannual financial framework for this cooperation between the eu and the oct for the period 2014-2020. this report sets out the objectives of the 11th edf, with particular emphasis on promoting the octs' economic and social development, greater democratic control and reformed and more effective development aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by patrice tirolien on the financing of eu cooperation for the acp countries, which includes the promotion of the octs' economic and social development, budgeting and financial envelope, democratic control and development effectiveness. the european union maintains privileged relations with the african, caribbean and pacific group of developing countries under the acp-eu partnership agreement.
in writing. the 11th european development fund is a key tool in our cooperation with the overseas countries and territories. with this report we are reiterating our ambitions for the years ahead, for cooperation that will be beneficial both to the octs and to the european union. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the protection of women and girls. our vision is clear: protecting their health and involving them in political and economic decision-making processes is to promote development, move towards more sustainable growth, and promote well-being and cohesion.
in writing. it is essential to support our partners but in line with our values of reciprocity. the european union must better control spending in this area so that every euro spent actually contributes to the development of its regions, and thus enables us to increase our trade.
in writing. the european parliament (ep) is not involved in the negotiation of the european development fund (edf) because this instrument is not part of the european budget. the budgetisation of the edf is a recurring request from the green group, which proposes that the edf be financed by own resources such as the financial transaction tax. the commission plans to budget this by 2020. even if our influence is limited at present, the debate on the future edf budget is nevertheless fundamental in the ep. this 11th edf will finance eu cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the overseas countries and territories (octs) for the period 2014-2020. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because it shows the will of the members to work towards a better relationship between the eu and the acp countries and the octs. we need a budget that is up to the objectives we have set, which are, in the long run, the eradication of poverty and the independence of the beneficiaries from the donors.
in writing. the eu is currently the world's largest provider of development aid and is an undisputed world leader in this field. it is essential that the union and its member states maintain their commitments to the poorest, and in particular that they do not abandon their objective of allocating 0.7% of their income to development aid. however, it is clear that the budget decided by the council for the 11th edf - the main instrument for the provision of eu development assistance to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the overseas countries and territories (octs) - which is €3 billion lower than the european commission's proposal, is far from living up to the union's commitments. it is essential to send a clear message in defence of international solidarity, and i have therefore voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the financing of cooperation with the acp states and the octs for the period 2014-2020. in addition to a budget that is adequate, i would like to see the principle of policy coherence for development applied more effectively. i also support better coordination of programmes between the acp countries, the octs and their neighbouring outermost regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution rejecting the political agreement reached by the eu heads of state and government on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the european parliament has opposed a very large majority to a draft budget which is being reduced, without a vision, without a strategy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the union needs a budget that is better adapted to its present and future needs, so as to give priority to economies of scale and more efficient management in the long term. we fought on four fronts: the consolidation of budgets for the 2013 amending budget, budget flexibility, the introduction of a revision clause and finally the need to provide the eu with own resources. this resolution does not yet represent the final vote of the european parliament, but it defines the mandate of the parliament for the forthcoming negotiations with the council.
in writing. with this vote, the european parliament says no to the agreement of 8 february. as it stands, copying is not acceptable. reaffirming our role as legislators, we set out our conditions for opening negotiations with the supporters of a europe without ambition, coherence and vision. to date, this budget of austerity, this budget of the past and of shopkeepers, has been hammering away at a multiannual financial framework that is in no way capable of restoring confidence in european construction to european citizens who are still hard hit by the crises. because let us be serious: who can believe today that the union will fulfil its missions, defend growth and employment with a budget representing 1% of european gdp and more than fifty derogations - in the form of various gifts - made to each other? in the long term, the european budget should be in the order of 4 or 5% of european gdp. it is only on this basis that we can really achieve a sustainable development policy, a social pact for europe, an ambitious research policy, a european energy policy capable of achieving the objectives of a low-carbon economy, a policy of major works and infrastructure (maritime, rail, river).
in writing. i voted against the proposed agreement in its current form because it does not reflect the priorities and concerns related to the general european interest. under the lisbon treaty, the european parliament must now approve the budget, which was not the case for previous multiannual financial years. we have just been vigorously asserting the rights of the only european institution democratically elected by the citizens of europe. the multiannual framework has been designed to ensure the sustainable financing of major european policies. but here, this multiannual framework now prevents any funding for genuine common policies. we need more flexibility between budget lines and from one year to the next. we must be able to demand the possibility of revising the budget for the current year and we need to set up own resources for the eu, which are currently financed by almost 80% of the member states' contributions. nor is it possible to accept a budget with an estimated deficit of between 16 and 17 billion euros for 2013 alone. this would be to guarantee a financial framework which could lead the eu budget into a structural deficit.
in writing. by voting in favour of this resolution, we wanted to send a clear warning to the heads of state and government: we will not accept this multiannual financial framework as long as our demands, those of the europeans, are not taken into account. our demands are clear: growth, competitiveness, solidarity. for a europe that protects europeans, for a europe of solidarity, for a europe of dynamism, which does not mortgage its future. we do not want our ambitions for the next seven years to be reduced by gloomy forecasts linked to the crisis we are currently experiencing. we therefore ask for the possibility of revising this financial framework which is currently being implemented. the negotiations with the council will therefore be able to rely on a strong parliament position, in the forefront of defending the interests of all europeans.
in writing. our parliament has rejected the draft budget 2014-2020. it has rightly asked for the council's commitment on four points. debt settlement: the council must commit itself without delay to settling its past debts without deferring them to future years: the union cannot suffer from growing deficits, already estimated at some eur 17 billion, if it fails to meet its commitments. flexibility between headings and over time: the long-term budget must be flexible enough to meet new challenges. budgetary review: in the context of global economic and political changes, it is no longer possible to decide once and for all on guidelines for seven years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. own resources: these would gradually replace the current system based on national contributions and put an end to small-scale bargaining by the states. our parliament has a duty more than ever to lift europe up. it starts with a healthy, fair budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which rejects the compromise adopted by the member states on the 2014-2020 budget. as proposed by the council on 7 and 8 february, the budget for the next seven years will be, for the first time in the history of europe, lower than the previous period. it is this regression in the construction of europe that the european parliament has rejected. the european parliament must be united in its strong defence of an increased and future-oriented eu budget. only at european level will it be possible to cope with the crisis through investments in the energy transition, aid to the most deprived and training for young people. the european parliament will have a say for the first time in approving or rejecting the budget. i voted for this resolution because it recalls the need for an open, transparent vote, allowing the citizen to see what each member has voted.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the negotiation of the european union's multiannual financial framework. because we need an ambitious budget, serving the general european interest, especially in times of crisis, we reject the agreement reached at the european council on 7 and 8 february in its present form. several conditions will have to be met for parliament to validate the 2014-2020 european budget: the budget will have to be flexible in time and according to the programmes, a mid-term review will allow other budgetary guidelines to be defined for the following years, and a system of own resources will finally be established to feed the european budget.
in writing. on 13 march, the european parliament adopted its position on the european budget for the period 2014-2020. this vote marks the start of negotiations with the european commission and the member states. in this period of severe budgetary constraints, everyone must tighten their belts, including brussels. nevertheless, the agreement reached by the heads of state or government on 8 february is not the right solution. the agreement reduces the cap budget by 11%, the regional cohesion policy budget by 8%, the budget for the solidarity fund by half and the globalisation aid fund by one third, which is intended to help workers affected by factory closures and restructuring to make a new career. the aid for the poorest, which i have been fighting for for two years, is down by a third, and it's only 5 cents a day in aid to the beneficiaries. what parliament is proposing is simple: to revise the budget so that it is more responsive and adapted to the needs of citizens and businesses. the european budget is 94% investments in competitiveness, research, regional aid and the cap.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to show my determination to ensure that the voice of the european parliament is heard and that its power of co-decision on budgetary matters is respected, and i am glad that it has finally been adopted. i think the budget agreement reached by the member states is very disappointing, both in its overall amount, which has fallen for the first time, and in its lack of flexibility. we therefore call for the possibility of revising the current budget, for the reimbursement of the deficit incurred for 2013, but also for the establishment of own resources for the european union, which is currently financed by the member states to the tune of about 80%, which places it in a situation of too great dependence.
in writing. on wednesday, we voted on the agreement negotiated by the heads of state and government of the 27 eu countries on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which is, in a sense, the eu's multiannual financial law. we voted a resolution which clearly expresses our rejection of this agreement as it stood at the european council on 7 and 8 february. we believe that the european union needs a budget that favours growth and competitiveness in europe through genuine solidarity. the sums contained in this agreement give priority to national achievements and do not make it possible to prepare for the future by financing genuine common policies. this is why the european parliament has proposed that the main lines of this budget be reoriented towards more investment in sectors of the future. we also want more flexibility in the way the budget works and, above all, we want real progress to be made in the area of the union's own resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the multiannual financial framework, as it does not reflect the priorities of parliament and neglects its role as provided for in the lisbon treaty. in order to respect the treaty, it is not acceptable that the figures proposed by the council do not respect the principle of budgetary balance with an amount of expenditure greater than the ceilings for commitment appropriations. the problem of unpaid invoices in 2012 should also be resolved before the conclusion of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff). indeed, european programmes such as erasmus were short of funds at the beginning of the year because the bills were not paid by the member states. we also want a part of the european budget to come from own resources and thus reduce the share of contributions based on gross national income in the union budget to a maximum of 40%. finally, more transparency is needed in the way member state representatives negotiate and agree on national allocations under the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution rejecting the conclusions of the european council of 7 and 8 february on the multiannual financial framework. the draft agreement of the european council on the future multiannual financial framework of the european union for the next seven years is unacceptable, because it paves the way for seven years of austerity and economic slowdown in europe and denies the notion of european solidarity. the proposed agreement provides for cuts in areas which mainly affect the lives of european citizens in times of crisis, including the poorest citizens, youth, farmers and fishermen, researchers, local authorities and environmental projects, thus fuelling the growing rejection of the european union by its peoples. i cannot accept the abandonment of the redistributive policies of the european union and the abandonment of the project of a union based on solidarity.
in writing. with a decline of 3.5% in current euros compared to the period 2007-2013, the financial framework proposed by the heads of state or government is inadequate for an enlarged europe with new powers. at a time when everyone is recognising the need for greater european integration, i do not think we will be able to do much more with much less. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 7 and 8 february which calls for this proposal to be rejected as it stands. it is now to be hoped that the negotiations now under way will make it possible to bring about significant improvements to this multiannual financial framework. to meet the challenges of the crisis, europe needs to become more involved in growth and competitiveness policies such as research, development, infrastructure, training and support for smes, and to do more to tackle the distressing problem of youth unemployment. while the budgetary resources of the member states are very limited, it should also be remembered that the pooling of expenditure at european level would allow for serious savings in the public expenditure of the member states for a more efficient result.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is essential that the european parliament can take part in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff). the lisbon treaty allows it to do so and parliament must ensure that its legislative prerogatives are respected. the european union must find solutions quickly for its future and its citizens, and the mff negotiations must be refocused on the objectives of growth, employment, competitiveness and solidarity between member states. in order to ensure sustainable financing of community policies, we must focus on a flexible mff, allowing for the transfer of amounts from one sector to another, in order to achieve a fairer and more balanced budget. the commission is also proposing to introduce a review clause so that in future parliament can express its views on the mff and adapt it to changes in the economic situation. finally, the eu needs to have its own resources to pursue its objectives and values. finally, the commission must resolve the issue of the 2013 amending budget to cover payment appropriations not used in 2012.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the proposal for a multiannual financial framework finalised by the european council of 7 and 8 february 2013 is not acceptable as it stands. we must send a strong political message: we reject this agreement unless the council and our assembly start genuine, open and transparent negotiations. our red lines include investments for growth, for jobs, the european fund for the poorest, which has been cut by more than 30%, erasmus, crossborder cooperation and investments in research and innovation. we also ask for respect for our legislative prerogatives, a revision clause once the budgetary crisis has passed and a change in the nature of the union's resources, which are too dependent on contributions from the member states. after the bargaining of the states, the democratic debate must take over.
in writing. - the resolution on the agreement of the european council of 7 and 8 february on the multiannual budget expresses parliament's position on a number of important points. i agree that more flexible funding allocation conditions should be introduced, as well as the possibility of revising the budget at mid-term to meet specific economic challenges. the eu must also be strictly own resource-based, for example, part of the revenue from the new financial transaction tax should be channelled to the eu's own resources. the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy is needed in the face of major economic, political and social challenges. this requires increased investment in innovation, research and development, infrastructure and other growth-enhancing areas. unfortunately, the european council agreement provides for an 8% or €29.6 billion cut in funding for economic, social and territorial cohesion. at the same time, eu administrative expenditure is expected to remain at 6%, with an increase of eur 4.5 billion in absolute terms. the increase is also foreseen in budget headings not related to the recovery of economic growth. for example, the security and citizenship section is expected to grow by €3.3 billion, or 27%, and the eu's foreign policy-related global europe section by almost €1.9 billion, or 3%. in these areas, it would be possible to reduce expenditure, for example by optimising the functioning of diplomatic missions in third countries and by implementing more effective defence cooperation.
in writing. i have of course voted against the european council's draft agreement on the multiannual financial framework. the european budget represents only a small part of eu policies: more or less 1 000 billion for 7 years. in favour of national self-interest (more than 500 discounts on a case-by-case basis), the few solidarity programmes were the most affected by the reductions made by the member states. the drastic cut in food aid is symptomatic of this agreement: €1 billion less than the €3.5 billion of the eafrd, and this at a time when it is being extended to all member states, and when the number of poor people in the eu is reaching a sad record. i welcome the fact that this resolution was voted by a large majority (including, it should be noted, members who are usually supportive of austerity policies). the european parliament thus affirms its determination to exercise fully its legislative prerogatives over the european budget. it is to be hoped that this determination will be lasting... i regret that all the gue/ngl amendments calling for a fairer system of contributions for the member states have been rejected.
in writing. i welcome today's vote which demonstrated that parliament has fully assumed its role as co-decider of the budget provided for by the lisbon treaty. the council has announced the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which is the fruit of bargaining and lacks any vision for the future despite the efforts of the socialist minority and in particular françois hollande. the overwhelming majority of meps are speaking for the people, demanding today another ambition for the europe of tomorrow, namely a policy of collective growth based on innovation and with the necessary resources to finally overcome the crisis. to do this, europe needs real own resources so as not to be dependent on the contributions of the member states, which account for 80% of its budget. moreover, it is unacceptable that the planned budget should be structurally in deficit. at the end of 2012, 16 billion was missing, which prevented the funding of erasmus! we therefore demand a revision clause so that we can change this budgetary framework from 2014 onwards, after the elections in germany and the european parliament, which i hope will open up new prospects and put an end to this absurd and suicidal austerity cure, the bible of the european conservatives.
in writing. the council has proposed a multiannual financial framework 2014-2020: i would give it the "can do better" label. the present situation requires that we control our expenditure and national contributions. but be careful not to make the union a giant with feet of clay, with a budget that would render it impotent. our demands are clear: we support a lower budget, subject to the triple condition of a mid-term review, flexibility between budget lines and budget years and alignment of payment and commitment appropriations. why would you do that? because we can expect a recovery in growth that will allow for greater investment by 2015-2016. because it is essential that we can break down this multiannual budget into annual budgets which can be adapted to the needs. and because it is inconceivable that the appropriations committed at the beginning of the year are no longer guaranteed at the end of the year. ladies and gentlemen, our budget is not a spending budget but an investment budget. our fellow citizens are asking us to make exemplary efforts, but not to turn the union into an empty shell, without resources and therefore without results. i ask the council to revise its copy, proposing a budget which is indeed in crisis but which is fair, effective and negotiable in the process.
in writing. the european union needs independent, reliable, comparable and timely statistics and economic accounts to analyse the economic situation of a member state or region. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which aims to update and improve the rules for the collection and publication of this key macro-economic data in the union. this report aims at a thorough revision of the european system of accounts, building on the latest revision of the united nations system of national accounts in 2008. this should produce the highest quality statistics based on a viable methodology, gradually moving towards automated real-time data collection by member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new system for collecting and publishing key macroeconomic data in the eu member states. in times of crisis, it is important for policy-makers, economic voters and citizens to have reliable, independent and timely data. i could not but welcome this new accounting system which integrates environmental and social accounts
in writing. this report concerns the revision of the european system of national and regional accounts (esna), which brings together macroeconomic statistical data from the member states in order to analyse the coordination and convergence of economic policies. this is already a programme in the present context and one shudders when it is stated that we must move towards automated methods of real-time data collection to ensure "maximum transparency". numbers, especially those relating to public accounts, can be used to tell a lot. we see this every day now when we try to understand european politics. this purely quantitative view of economic and especially budgetary policies leads nowhere. a hospital, for example, is not an investment, a cost to be justified from an economic point of view, but a matter of public health and general interest. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the european union must comply with the requirements of the international conventions to which it is a party. the maritime sector is not exempt from this: the maritime labour convention adopted by the international labour organisation calls for the definition of common minimum standards for all flags and seafarers. directive 2009/13/ec is in line with this international body of legislation to ensure decent working and living conditions on board ships. i supported this report, which fills a gap in the directive as regards the responsibility of the flag state: the proposal aims to harmonise the conditions of competition in this sector by applying the maritime labour convention in all european ports. the amendments submitted should provide flag states with a sound reference framework for verifying the compliance of vessels with directive 2009/13/ec.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the provisions of the maritime labour convention 2006 on flag state control should be incorporated into eu law in a more detailed and specific way. the incorporation of the maritime labour convention into european union law has the major advantage of ensuring a much stricter enforcement regime within the union, for example through european union infringement procedures. in order to avoid differences of interpretation between member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping, the provisions of the european union concerning flag state control should take much better account of the specific and express requirements of the maritime labour convention.
in writing. the year 2014 will be the first year of implementation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i voted in favour of this report, which states that the priorities for 2014 are sustainable and competitive economic growth, the recovery of employment and the fight against youth unemployment. i welcome the fact that this report calls for the union to be endowed with its own resources in order to ensure its independence from the member states and that it provides for an improvement in the accuracy of budget forecasts, which must be realistic and sufficient. the report also rightly recalls the increase in the level of outstanding commitments to be paid and highlights the role played by the european supervisory authorities in financial regulation and supervision. the regulation on this financing framework therefore calls for a sufficient and realistic level of payments in order to avoid unnecessary complications in the implementation of the budget. finally, it affirms the key role of the union budget in implementing the europe 2020 strategy and in economic growth and job creation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the budgetary guidelines for 2014, which will be the first year of application of the multiannual financial framework. the european budget suffers from delays in payment of the 2012 budget, which is insufficient for 2013. the 2014 guidance is focused on a realistic level of payment, with a focus on supporting economic growth and employment. as part of the horizon 2020 perspective, i could only support guidelines that focus on spending on smes, research and vocational training.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the jensen report on the guidelines for the 2014 budget - section iii. it shows a great deal of foresight in spending priorities, and this in a context of crisis and with limited resources. the parliament thus places growth, competitiveness and employment, especially for young people, at the top of its priorities. i am also very keen to see the proposal for reform of the own resources system, since the current system has shown its limitations, by not allowing the european union to meet its obligations in terms of payments.
in writing. at a time when the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework is the focus of all attention, we are now looking at the 2014 budget. in view of the difficulties encountered in the implementation of the 2012 budget, we are sending a clear message here: the 2014 budget will be a budget for growth, but a budget for balance. the european budget is an indispensable tool for investment in europe, it is our best lever for recovery. but it must not be based on falsehoods, and the question of the amounts still to be paid for the previous year must therefore be settled as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because it recalls the need for the european budget to be financed mainly from own resources, such as the financial transaction tax or a larger share of value added tax.
in writing. this report, which i voted in favour of, contains provisions for the event that the various parties to the current budget negotiations fail to reach agreement in time, which seems increasingly likely. the text suggests in particular that the european commission may draw up a draft budget for 2014 on the basis of its own proposals and that it may extend the ceilings for the last year of the current multiannual financial framework, adjusted with a fixed deflator of 2% per year, until the adoption of the new multiannual financial regulation. this would allow the european commission to set a realistic level of payments for 2014 and to settle the european union's debts quickly to avoid further bottlenecks in negotiations and budgetary situations similar to last year.
in writing. the european budget, which is largely devoted to investment in the member states, remains a privileged tool for overcoming the crisis that has been affecting us for years. i therefore voted in favour of mrs jensen's report, which reaffirms the role of this budget in promoting growth, employment and competitiveness. in particular, we reiterate our willingness to invest in training, research, innovation, infrastructure and support for smes, with a specific focus on youth unemployment, which is reaching alarming proportions in many countries. that is why i am very concerned about the fact that the member states are not honouring the payments they owe to the european budget, even though most of them have increased their own budgets in recent months. the european budget, however, makes it possible to achieve significant savings in public expenditure by pooling resources and thus to support the essential return to balance in the national accounts.
in writing. the distribution of seats in the european parliament was to be revised as a result of the treaty of lisbon establishing a maximum number of 751 meps (compared with 754 today) and in anticipation of the forthcoming arrival of croatian meps in the chamber. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the distribution of seats in the european elections due to take place from 22 to 25 may 2014, even though i do not find it entirely satisfactory. it shall determine the distribution of seats in accordance with the principle of degressive proportionality. to this was added an additional rule: no loss of more than one seat per state (except germany). while some ten countries will lose seats in the parliamentary chamber, france will retain its current seats. i do not consider this choice to be fully satisfactory because it creates a gap in representation (number of members per citizen) between the member states. however, we needed a quick solution and i supported it because we demand that it be only temporary. a new proposal for a more sustainable and transparent distribution of seats will be tabled by parliament in 2015.
in writing. in a democracy, the composition of the members responsible for representing the voice of the citizens is a crucial issue. at european level, this issue is of a particular nature. the european parliament, let us repeat, the only european body elected by direct suffrage, has therefore the duty, if not the obligation, to reflect as closely as possible the demographic weight of the various member states. this report takes completely unfounded liberties with this elementary principle. the common thread of this report, refusing to change the existing distribution more than marginally, is to lock the european parliament into a status quo which is clearly unacceptable. the entry of croatia into the european union should have allowed for a redistribution of cards. it's not like that. so it is a very unfortunate missed opportunity.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this report, which aims to achieve a more balanced distribution of seats between the member states in the european parliament following the accession of croatia in july next year. a concrete measure is the two-stage approach: this proposal would apply only to the 2014-2019 parliamentary term, and it is planned to present by the end of 2015 a new proposal for a decision establishing a sustainable and transparent system that would allow for the allocation of seats in an objective manner, based on the principle of degressive proportionality.
in writing. the accession of croatia on 1 july requires an adjustment in the number of seats allocated to each country, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, which sets a maximum of 751 meps. it currently takes less than 70 000 citizens to elect a maltese mep, but it takes almost 900 000 to elect a french mep. i therefore voted in favour of this report, although it is not perfect. as it is politically impossible to reduce the number of german members by more than three, france, the united kingdom and spain are abnormally under-represented. this could only be avoided by increasing the number of members from these countries. but the arrival of croatian members cannot be used as a pretext for increasing the number of french members. i would like to see a system in place in future, before each election to the european parliament, which will make it possible to allocate seats between the member states in an objective manner, on the basis of the principle of degressive proportionality, taking account of any increase in their number and demographic developments, without excluding the possibility of reserving a certain number of seats for members elected on transnational lists.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the composition of the european parliament for the 2014 european elections, tabled by mr trzaskowski and mr gualtieri. the solution proposed by the two co-rapporteurs is pragmatic and politically realistic, as it deals with the complex and extremely important question of the democratic legitimacy of elected members of the european parliament and the european parliament. in view of the enlargement of the eu to include croatia, and the fact that the number of meps is capped at 751 by the treaty of lisbon, the number of meps per member state will logically be modified while minimising seat losses. i will continue to be vigilant, together with the french delegation of the epp, to ensure that a member state such as france does not see its representation in the european parliament reduced.
in writing. meps from the democratic movement contest the political approach of the rapporteurs regarding the composition of the european parliament in 2014 and voted against it. the treaty of lisbon provides that the european parliament is to be composed of representatives of the citizens of the union, whose representation is to be ensured on a degressively proportional basis. but this democratic principle has now been denied. whatever the mathematical formula used, the degressive proportionality should have given france additional seats, but also spain, italy and the united kingdom. instead of following this legally established path, the report, which aims to integrate future croatian elected representatives, is content to maintain the current balance, de facto leading to the principle of representation of the peoples, the foundation and raison d'être of the european parliament, being called into question. the ball is now in the council's court. it will be up to france, with the help of other member states, to find a solution which respects the letter and the spirit of the treaty.
in writing. the european parliament was to decide on the future composition of its assembly from 2014. the logic would have been that some member states would gain more seats and that medium-sized powers would lose more. the solution was a kind of status quo, with no state winning or losing more than one seat, with a meeting clause in the run-up to the 2019 elections to find the most relevant and least chaotic solution. this delicate choice avoids pitting national delegations against each other in the context of the electoral campaign and crystallizing debates on this secondary issue. in approving this report, the european parliament has chosen to act with wisdom and caution. france will not lose a seat in 2014, and i believe that the immediate interest of voters is not the number of meps they are struggling to identify, but the programmes, actions and solutions that the european parliament, a real legislative power too little known, can propose in order to respond to the real concerns of citizens, such as employment and purchasing power.
in writing. i voted in favour of this pragmatic, albeit not ideal, resolution proposed by the two rapporteurs of the text. it is true that the solution adopted only partially respects the principle of degressive proportionality which derives from the european treaties and that it will deprive certain states, including france, of several seats to which they could have claimed by virtue of the same principle. but when it comes to budget negotiations, it is necessary to avoid the division between the most populous member states and the others, and in the face of the lengthy negotiations that this debate on the composition of the parliament for the 2014 elections has raised, the word 'compromise' makes perfect sense. i believe that it is essential for an elected official to keep in mind the reason for his work and his political struggles, which is the general interest, and this was indeed the most realistic solution, the one that went in the direction of the maximum general interest for the citizens of europe. i am therefore pleased that it was adopted today and that the reservations of some have not overridden the general interest.
in writing. we took a position on the report on the composition of the european parliament for the 2014 elections, which will allow our eleven future croatian colleagues to enter the parliament, if the ratification process for croatia's accession is confirmed. we propose that twelve states, in addition to germany, which will lose three seats under the lisbon treaty, lose one seat each. the 're-allocation of seats' due to the accession of croatia nevertheless gave rise to the question of the representation of the member states, which must be in line with demographic developments. it will be up to the next parliament, the one elected in 2014, to work on a system of seat allocation that meets the expectations of our citizens: balanced, modern, transparent and democratic. as vice-chairman of the afco committee, i spoke about the current under-representation of france. but it did not seem to me sensible or politically expedient, when other hot topics confront the eu, to advocate, unlike the french government and some of my colleagues, an increase in the number of french meps.
in writing. absinthe is the fruit of a traditional recipe combining artemisia l., absinthe and anise, appreciated by its consumers for its characteristics and its long tradition of production. in order to harmonize legislation to protect the european absinthe-producing sector, the commission had rightly proposed a balanced and qualitative definition of absinthe in european legislation. this commission proposal was the result of a fair compromise between all the players in the sector. this definition was relevant in many respects, notably to protect consumers with quality products. i therefore deeply regret the european parliament's veto of this compromise, which puts quality absinthe at risk, since there is still no definition recognised at european and international level. this is to take the risk that switzerland will appropriate the term 'absinthe' by registering it as a geographical indication and prohibiting its marketing to european producers.
in writing. i voted against the resolution calling into question the european definition of absinthe. the name 'absinthe' is a guarantee of quality, and selling it in this way opens the door to a lower quality absinthe, misleads the consumer and opens the way for the swiss who wish to appropriate the name. while france last year lifted the 96-year ban on absinthe, we must support the 15 french absinthe producers who represent the wealth of our know-how.
in writing. absinthe is a traditional european alcohol produced in a few member states, including france. although the recipe for this drink is precise, the category 'absinthe' does not yet exist in the union. many imitations are now sold as such. in order to finally allow european producers to use the name absinthe and to guarantee the authenticity and quality of the alcohols marketed in europe, the union must clearly define the composition of this beverage. a strict definition of absinthe should make it possible to combat counterfeit absinthe alcohol from europe or third countries much more effectively.
in writing. i wanted to vote against this text. the definition of absinthe proposed by the european commission was a definition that favoured product quality. the proposal included a threshold for anethole (which allows the water to be disturbed and therefore for detecting counterfeits) and thuyone (a characteristic of the plant). it will now be possible, without a european definition, to buy products under the name of absinthe without even using the plant 'absinthe'. moreover, as regards the timing, this rejection is dangerous since switzerland has applied for a geographical indication for absinthe at the same time. now that there is no community definition, the swiss can ask for the term to be banned for products manufactured outside their territory, and we cannot go back. it is therefore a vote which is against the safety of the consumer and of our community producers.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because i find it scandalous. admitting that a drink is marketed under the sales name 'absinthe' without providing proof that the plant of the same name has been used is clearly deceitful. baudelaire would turn in his grave! it is not just about preserving our traditions but also about protecting consumers. the name 'absinthe' cannot be sold and must remain a guarantee of quality. in reality, this is only a matter of defending the interests of certain companies in the region of the rhine which wish to produce wormwood of inferior quality in order to gain market shares. this is a scandal! i regret that the members of the european parliament are now threatening the traditional absinthe recipe which is the richness of our know-how. by delaying the introduction of a european definition of absinthe, the european parliament is shooting itself in the foot! the european union is in danger of being duped by switzerland, which wants to appropriate the name 'absinthe' by registering it as a geographical indication.
in writing. i regret the adoption of the resolution on spirits, which seems to me to be a complete nonsense! the european parliament has taken an absurd position by calling into question the european definition of absinthe, at the risk of confiscating the name 'absinthe' by switzerland, which intends to register it as a geographical indication. such an aberration puts the future of small businesses and distilleries at risk, since the adoption of this resolution amounts to a ban on the marketing of european products, and in particular french absinthe, which is known for its historically high quality.
in writing. i regret that our assembly has rejected the definition of absinthe proposed by the commission. i am convinced that the commission was on the right track in setting a minimum level of anethole and thujone in alcohol as the legal definition of alcohol, and the level of levels set by the commission seemed to me to guarantee both the specificity of absinthe and the health of consumers. to go back to these two criteria would, in my view, remove all substance from the legal definition of absinthe, and thus allow alcohols that are far removed from it to use its name. the present situation is detrimental to the producers of traditional absinthe and, of course, to consumers who are thus misled about the product they are buying. in addition, the race with switzerland should not be lost, since that country has accepted an application from its operators for recognition of the geographical indication 'absinthe'. with the rejection of the definition proposed by the commission, our producers could end up being deprived of our name 'absinthe', which must be avoided.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. the text, drawn up by the parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety, is opposed to the european commission's proposal to define precisely the drinks that can be called 'absinthe', and for the wrong reasons. under the guise of protecting the health of european citizens, the supporters of this text are in fact signalling the death of traditional absinthe production in europe. by defining this liqueur strictly, the european commission was protecting both consumers who had the guarantee of a quality product and european producers, because switzerland is currently trying to appropriate this name. i hope that the commission will propose a new text similar to this and that my colleagues in the house will hear our arguments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for a greener, more profitable and fairer common agricultural policy. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i welcome this cap along greener lines, with a significant part of direct aid now conditional on compliance with environmental standards, such as the increase in areas of ecological interest. the revised cap offers greater support and a simplified scheme for small farmers with an increased one-off annual payment. i also support this report which calls for the states to commit themselves more to young farmers, by allocating 2% of the direct aids budget to them. finally, the european parliament has campaigned for a fairer and more sustainable cap by ensuring greater external convergence in the distribution of aid within the union and greater internal convergence within each member state. a progressive cap on direct aid is provided for in order to target the holdings which are most in need of european aid.
in writing. following the vote on the cap, it is clear that the original ambitions have been seriously undermined: the plenary assembly has remained stuck on the agricultural policy of the past. the greening is reduced, whereas it was one of the biggest advances in the original proposal. another key measure that would have changed the face of the cap considerably was not adopted: the cap on aid of €200,000 was rejected by two votes to one. the lack of fairness in support for farmers is now glaring. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. balancing also with developing countries (decs). i am a supporter of food sovereignty and self-sufficiency, from local to continental, and regret that the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the cap in the developing countries has not been adopted. for all these reasons, this vote is a missed opportunity. the cap has not yet been reformed, and negotiations are still ongoing. for a healthy farming system, which allows farmers to live off their labour, which provides quality products and which is part of sustainable development, the mobilisation of both parliamentary and citizen representatives remains more necessary than ever.
in writing. by introducing the green payment, we want to give the cap's direct payments greater legitimacy. the report proposes to link 30% of the national ceiling for direct payments to three environmental practices: crop diversification, permanent grassland and pasturage and ecological focus areas. i have therefore decided, in the light of these elements, to vote in favour of the report by mr luis manuel capoulas santos.
in writing. i voted in favour of capping aid to farmers for a more environmentally friendly and fair agricultural subsidy system. direct aid was capped at 30% and subject to compulsory greening measures. we have, however, taken care that these environmental measures are gradual and flexible, so as not to place too much pressure on farmers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the capoulas santos report, supporting the vote in the european parliament's agri committee. the report calls for better targeting and a fairer distribution of direct aids, and emphasises support for young farmers, a crucial aspect as the profession is becoming increasingly disadvantaged. environmental measures are also made compulsory, but with sufficient flexibility to avoid burdening the competitiveness of farms. i therefore consider these positions to be balanced and realistic in view of the trilogue negotiations with the council.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution, which will open negotiations on the future of direct payments to farmers under our common agricultural policy. i particularly welcome the measures for young farmers: we see that agriculture is a key sector for our economies, our culture, our environment and our health. it is not right that so few young people are attracted to agriculture, even though the sector is recruiting. it is to reduce the difficulties faced by farmers and to make this sector attractive again that i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the general objectives of a new common agricultural policy need to be re-examined. europeans have new expectations of food. they want an agriculture that respects the environment, the quality, traceability and food safety of products and the carbon footprint. this new policy will also have to be part of a global vision. the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change. the global organisation of agricultural markets will have to be redesigned taking into account the two main inspirations underlying the common agricultural policy: ensuring food security and preserving the living fabric of farmers everywhere.
in writing. while i regret the substantial reduction in appropriations that the cap is about to undergo in the future financial framework (2014-2020), we must not lose sight of the objective of a fairer cap. i supported this text which caps aid to farmers at eur 300 000. this is a positive first step which should allow for a more parsimonious distribution of public money and a rebalancing of aid in favour of small and medium-sized farms (particularly in the south-west). i would have liked a more ambitious vote with a limit of eur 200 000 but unfortunately parliament did not see it that way.
in writing. in this important period of cap reform, agriculture is once again at the centre of the debate. the french want quality agriculture, efficient agriculture, meeting high environmental standards and sustainable agriculture for our farmers, but without ideology or excessive bureaucracy. the initial proposals of the european commission do not meet these expectations. the farmers must be able to work in good conditions and receive a decent income as a result of their work. on the other hand, our regional products (sometimes of a cultural nature), such as wines and many cheeses, deserve special attention so that they are not reduced to the status of ordinary commodities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a welcome one.
in writing. i did not vote for any of the negotiating mandates on the common agricultural policy. even if they are amended, these texts are not a good basis for discussion with the council. what parliament is going to negotiate does not fundamentally change the cap designed by the eurocrats since 1992: it is still a question of deregulating european agriculture and leaving it to the sole forces of a totally liberalized world market. by supporting financially the euthanasia of our farmers, who have no chance of being competitive with the strong euro, the production costs and the draconian standards they must obey, but which must never be imposed on imports that compete with them. nothing in these texts is conducive to achieving the broad objectives of what a genuine agricultural policy should be: food security and food independence; decent incomes for farmers; quality products at reasonable prices for consumers. all this can only be achieved by regulating markets and implementing national and european preference. you're doing the exact opposite.
in writing. i voted against this regulation because, as it stands, it will not allow the common agricultural policy to change direction. the environmentalists have suffered a serious and bitter defeat, as the overwhelming majority of our demands have not been voted on. the european parliament has made its choice between quality agriculture and productivist agriculture. and it's not mine. parliament voted against crop rotation, the only way out of monoculture. he voted against compliance with the water framework directive, a key european text for environmental protection. he voted against the disqualification of farmers from receiving subsidies for growing gmos. and against the reduction of the subsidy ceiling to eur 100 000. finally, the texts make almost no mention of the coherence of public policies for development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my socialist colleague, mr luis manuel capoulas santos, for the establishment of a common agricultural policy (cap) which is more environmentally friendly, fairer and more equitable. in order to tackle the challenge of greening, i support the conditioning of 30% of direct aid to farmers to environmental standards, such as crop diversification or the maintenance of permanent grasslands. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the cap. in this respect, i welcome the introduction of the french proposal for a bonus for the first hectares, which will help to promote small farms, since they are the ones that provide the most jobs. similarly, the young farmer payments encourage new entrants to the sector and contribute to generational renewal in agriculture. i regret, however, that the amendment on the ceiling of eur 200 000 has not been adopted. he was only two votes short of the cap reform to become even more redistributive.
in writing. i welcome the balanced approach that the european parliament has chosen to take to the common agricultural policy, ensuring the future of our farmers while meeting the legitimate social and environmental expectations of society. as regards direct payments, the european parliament has approved the introduction of the greening principle to ensure that agriculture is more respectful of the environment and our landscapes. i am particularly pleased with the measures taken to help young farmers, who, as i see every day in my region, are becoming fewer and fewer in number to take up a difficult but essential occupation for the food self-sufficiency of our country. i also wanted the new cap that is being drawn up to take account of the concerns of our farmers about the distribution of aid. that is why i supported the capping of aid at eur 200 000 so that redistribution would benefit small and mediumsized farms more, but unfortunately this option was not taken.
in writing. another key issue is the reform of the common agricultural policy, which remains the union's first common policy, accounting for almost 40% of the european budget. we have also made known our political messages to the council and the commission and voted on the mandate we give to our parliamentary negotiators. in this mandate, we express our desire for the cap to be more balanced, to continue to reduce disparities between farmers in the union, and to be more environmentally friendly through the so-called 'greening' of the cap. we want 30% of direct aid to farmers to be conditional on compliance with certain environmental practices, but with flexibility for small farms. we also want aid to be distributed first to 'active farmers', i.e. those who derive all or a very large part of their income from their agricultural activity. it is also a strong support for young farmers and small farms that the european parliament wishes to affirm through the ambitious mandate given to its representatives in the negotiations that are now opening.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on direct payments to farmers because the environment is more taken into account by farmers implementing environmentally friendly measures in order to receive 30% of the aid to which they are entitled under the basic payment scheme. it is also important to set a maximum amount that a holding can receive in order to redistribute aid between holdings in the member states in a balanced way. small farms should also benefit from a simplified scheme and young farmers should be granted a supplementary payment to keep the young generation in the agricultural sector. in order to address the shortcomings of the last programming period, member states should draw up a list limiting the allocation of european aid to active farmers.
in writing. the weight of agricultural producers in the food supply chain and the maintenance of a form of management of agricultural markets are, in the context of the current reform of the cap, two elements that i supported in my vote. the abolition of export refunds remains problematic and its immediate effect is likely to cause very serious difficulties for certain sectors. it is in this sense that it is important to work on an emergency system which would maintain a financial reserve in the event of a one-off agricultural crisis.
in writing. our food security is our most precious asset. we owe much of it to the common agricultural policy (cap), which has made it possible for us to provide for our most basic need - food. it was a historic eu policy, it had to be modernised and i can say that we have done so successfully. we voted for a fairer, more flexible and greener cap. by placing a ceiling on aid to large farms, introducing a system favouring small farmers and organising convergence of aid between the states and the regions of each state, our assembly is responding to the demand for a fairer and more efficient distribution of aid. we have also managed to ensure some flexibility for the cap 2014-2020, allowing member states to transfer part of agricultural income support to rural development, and vice versa. finally, i am pleased that we have found a compromise for sustainable agriculture, with environmental objectives to be achieved according to the capabilities of each farmer. the cap benefits 500 million europeans, but it must also take account of the specificities and needs of farmers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which supports a new approach to the functioning of agricultural markets. the role of producers in the food supply chain and in market and risk management needed to be strengthened to counter the government's disengagement. it was unthinkable to leave agricultural markets without any form of management: it was up to producers in europe, supported by the european union, to take over. this new system of common organization of the markets in agricultural products is made possible by the strengthening of the powers of collective structures and by the clarification and adaptation of the competition law applied to agriculture. i welcome the initiative of my colleague, mr michel dantin, who has proposed ways of ensuring that consumers are supplied and that the various types of farms are economically viable. i regret, however, that the ceiling on aid to farmers was set at €300 000 instead of €200 000, which would have ensured greater fairness and balance in the agricultural world.
in writing. following the vote on the cap, it is clear that the original ambitions have been seriously undermined: the plenary assembly has remained stuck on the agricultural policy of the past. the greening is reduced, whereas it was one of the biggest advances in the original proposal. another key measure that would have changed the face of the cap considerably was not adopted: the cap on aid of €200,000 was rejected by two votes to one. the lack of fairness in support for farmers is now glaring. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. balancing also with developing countries (decs). i am a supporter of food sovereignty and self-sufficiency, from local to continental, and regret that the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the cap in the developing countries has not been adopted. for all these reasons, this vote is a missed opportunity. the cap has not yet been reformed, and negotiations are still ongoing. for a healthy farming system, which allows farmers to live off their labour, which provides quality products and which is part of sustainable development, the mobilisation of both parliamentary and citizen representatives remains more necessary than ever.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague michel dantin, which stresses the specific features of agricultural activity and the food chain. this report allows the agricultural sector to derogate, within predefined limits, from the normal rules of competition in order to give farmers greater power on the market.
in writing. i voted in favour of a new approach to the functioning of agricultural markets, which have hitherto been closely supervised by the public authorities. in the era of globalisation, the weight of producers in the management of markets and risks must be increased, which requires a strengthening of the powers of collective structures and an adaptation of competition law to agriculture. some sectors (such as sugar and milk) continue to be protected to give them more time to adapt, but quotas are not a permanent solution. by designing farms as enterprises, farmers can finally break out of the economic dependence in which they are locked.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, the result of a long and intense negotiating effort within the european parliament's agri committee. the compromise reached takes account of the specific features of the agricultural activity and the food chain. the report also takes a reasoned approach by allowing for exceptions to the normal competition rules within a well-defined framework. this will give producer organisations the much-needed role to play in order to gain a greater competitive edge over other players in the agri-food sector. in contrast to the increased liberalisation of agricultural markets, this report is in line with the reality experienced by the vast majority of our farmers who benefit from the cap, namely globalisation and the changes in their sector of activity which they feel are constraints and have to face.
in writing. the european parliament has taken up the challenge of reforming one of the most symbolic european policies for europeans: the common agricultural policy. i am particularly sensitive to the maintenance of the planting rights regime, which will help to protect our wine sector by avoiding uncontrolled liberalisation of wine production. but can we accept without saying anything the significant cuts that the heads of state and government want to impose on the cap in the next multiannual financial framework? the compromise i have spoken in favour of today is above all a clear basis for our ambitions in the negotiations: what i am advocating by my vote is a fairer cap, and one which is always more in the service of our farmers.
in writing. the general objectives of a new common agricultural policy need to be re-examined. europeans have new expectations of food. they want an agriculture that respects the environment, the quality, traceability and food safety of products and the carbon footprint. this new policy will also have to be part of a global vision. the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change. the global organisation of agricultural markets will have to be redesigned taking into account the two main inspirations underlying the common agricultural policy: ensuring food security and preserving the living fabric of farmers everywhere.
in writing. i voted against this regulation because, as it stands, it will not allow the common agricultural policy to change direction. the environmentalists have suffered a serious and bitter defeat, as the overwhelming majority of our demands have not been voted on. the european parliament has made its choice between quality agriculture and productivist agriculture. and it's not mine. parliament voted against crop rotation, the only way out of monoculture. he voted against compliance with the water framework directive, a key european text for environmental protection. he voted against the disqualification of farmers from receiving subsidies for growing gmos. and against the reduction of the subsidy ceiling to eur 100 000. finally, the texts make almost no mention of the coherence of public policies for development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it was necessary to reform our common agricultural policy in an effective way, in order to strengthen the place of producers in the agri-food supply chain. our farmers and our agri-food sectors need visibility in order to be able to face the challenges of today with confidence. producer and inter-branch organisations have an important place in the negotiation processes, as they can effectively voice the concerns and issues of the sector. we must ensure an efficient internal market, which will enable our agriculture to take its place in a highly competitive global agri-food sector, without sacrificing its quality guarantees. this is achieved, for example, by maintaining planting rights, which enable us to guarantee the sustainability of a varied and high-quality wine sector. the cap is at the heart of european policies: we must do everything to preserve its role and make it as effective as possible, in order to guarantee the future of our agriculture.
in writing. i supported this report because it includes many advances in the regulation of agricultural markets and production. in order to guarantee our food security and the future of the european agricultural sector, the socialists and democrats advocate the re-establishment of public market management tools and instruments to strengthen the role of trade organisations, producer groups and inter-branch organisations. these provide greater stability for farmers and promote a smooth development of the agri-food chain. we also call for greater account to be taken of the specific features of agriculture and for the rules of competition to be adapted. for example, we refused to liberalize the wine sector by maintaining the planting rights.
in writing. the european parliament met in strasbourg on wednesday 13 march to set out its position on the cap for the forthcoming negotiations with the european commission and the member states. one of the texts in the package concerns the reform of the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, which strengthens the regulatory powers of farmers and the sectors which will now be able to take over from the public authorities. i welcome the desire to give farmers and producer organizations more power, so that they can finally take control of their destiny and production and ensure the economic viability of their farms. i am also pleased with the european parliament's decision to extend sugar quotas until 2020, which will allow the beet sector to prepare for the transition in a calm manner. i am not forgetting the disastrous effect of the 2006 reform, which led to the closure of 83 sugar factories, the loss of more than 22 000 direct jobs and the cessation of beet cultivation by more than 150 000 farmers, particularly in the auvergne.
in writing. another key issue is the reform of the common agricultural policy, which remains the union's first common policy, accounting for almost 40% of the european budget. we have also made known our political messages to the council and the commission and voted on the mandate we give to our parliamentary negotiators. in this mandate, we express our desire for the cap to be more balanced, to continue to reduce disparities between farmers in the union, and to be more environmentally friendly through the so-called 'greening' of the cap. we want 30% of direct aid to farmers to be conditional on compliance with certain environmental practices, but with flexibility for small farms. we also want aid to be distributed first to 'active farmers', i.e. those who derive all or a very large part of their income from their agricultural activity. it is also a strong support for young farmers and small farms that the european parliament wishes to affirm through the ambitious mandate given to its representatives in the negotiations that are now opening.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the single cmo regulation in order to help farmers cope with market volatility and strengthen their position when negotiating prices, their organisations should be given new tools and be allowed to negotiate subcontracting and delivery contracts. aid should also be granted to milk producers to prepare for the end of milk quotas, which will expire in 2015. sugar quotas could be maintained until 2020 to give beet growers time to adapt to the liberalisation of the sector.
in writing. the reform of the cap gave the european commission the opportunity to propose an amendment to the cmo regulation, which since 1968 has provided for a common organisation of markets based on the principles of quotas, guaranteed prices and management of the supply chains. the reform proposed by the commission was aimed at the almost immediate abolition of sugar quotas and of any protection for community sugar production. i reject this logic absolutely, because it condemns sugarcane growers and other agricultural sectors to global competition, social dumping and total deregulation of the market. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of maintaining the common market organisations until 2020, its quota, price guarantee and supply chain management systems, thus safeguarding the interests of sugarcane growers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision because the common agricultural policy (cap) must continue to meet its objectives while modernising and adapting to the varied profiles of european agriculture. greening and convergence of aid are at the heart of this modernisation of the cap. the first must be implemented in a flexible manner so as not to lead to a fall in production and endanger european agriculture. the convergence of aid also remains a sensitive issue. it must be applied gradually to avoid causing the collapse of the aid of certain farmers. finally, it is essential to support and accompany young farmers in their establishment and in their daily lives.
in writing. agricultural markets are not like other markets. they are subject to the vagaries of weather and disease and therefore require intelligent management and regulation. that is why, when i voted for the reform of the cap, i insisted on the extension of the mechanisms of public intervention, aid for storage and the maintenance of certain quotas, which guarantee a balance between supply and demand and a fair income for farmers. i am particularly pleased that the unanimous vote in favour of the extension of planting rights was in response to a request from the wine growers in my region. this will enable us to obtain from the council a system of production control capable of guaranteeing the quality and traditions of wine growing in france. i also supported the provisions which strengthen the status of producers, particularly in the fruit and vegetables sector, so that they can act on the market and thus ensure a fair distribution of added value among all the actors in the food sector. the food industry and its producers are like two sides of the same coin, they can't be opposed if they want to thrive.
in writing. in the common strategic framework, rural development must meet three requirements: competitiveness of agriculture, sustainable management of natural resources and balanced development of rural areas. the european parliament therefore agrees with the commission that rural development should benefit from several european funds (erdf, cohesion fund, esf, eafrd, emff) in order to maximise the impact of eu investments. i voted in favour of this report which promotes rural development based on six diversified priorities, such as the transfer of knowledge and innovation, improving agricultural competitiveness and enhancing the viability of exports or promoting the food chain while ensuring safe risk management. restoring, preserving and strengthening ecosystems dependent on agriculture and forestry, promoting resource efficiency and promoting social inclusion, poverty reduction and economic development are the three other guidelines of the new cap for rural development.
in writing. following the vote on the cap, it is clear that the original ambitions have been seriously undermined: the plenary assembly has remained stuck on the agricultural policy of the past. the greening is reduced, whereas it was one of the biggest advances in the original proposal. another key measure that would have changed the face of the cap considerably was not adopted: the cap on aid of €200,000 was rejected by two votes to one. the lack of fairness in support for farmers is now glaring. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. balancing also with developing countries (decs). i am a supporter of food sovereignty and self-sufficiency, from local to continental, and regret that the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the cap in the developing countries has not been adopted. for all these reasons, this vote is a missed opportunity. the cap has not yet been reformed, and negotiations are still ongoing. for a healthy farming system, which allows farmers to live off their labour, which provides quality products and which is part of sustainable development, the mobilisation of both parliamentary and citizen representatives remains more necessary than ever.
in writing. i supported the report by luis manuel capoulas santos which essentially consists of a series of measures eligible for eu and em co-financing. the second pillar payments are designed as an additional payment to farmers who choose to go beyond the minimum greening requirements. some agri-environmental measures therefore allow these payments to be cumulated with the first pillar green payment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rural development programme for young farmers, small farms and landlocked areas. in 2010, 20,000 farm managers retired, but only 13,000 young people took over, so the rate of replacement between generations is far from assured. the agricultural sector is essential for jobs and growth, and we have therefore voted to maintain a good level of rural development aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the capoulas santos report on support for rural development by the eafrd. the measures contained in it are designed to take better account of the diversity of agricultural situations and territories in the member states. the menu of identified european priorities, with particular emphasis on competitiveness, knowledge, farm development, basic services, offers a diverse range of actions for the implementation of aid at member state level. the list of climatic hazards for which compensation may be paid has also been updated, so that it is more closely linked to the reality of the field and thus better protects farmers benefiting from the cap.
in writing. the general objectives of a new common agricultural policy need to be re-examined. europeans have new expectations of food. they want an agriculture that respects the environment, the quality, traceability and food safety of products and the carbon footprint. this new policy will also have to be part of a global vision. the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change. the global organisation of agricultural markets will have to be redesigned taking into account the two main inspirations underlying the common agricultural policy: ensuring food security and preserving the living fabric of farmers everywhere.
in writing. i voted against this regulation because, as it stands, it will not allow the common agricultural policy to change direction. the environmentalists have suffered a serious and bitter defeat, as the overwhelming majority of our demands have not been voted on. the european parliament has made its choice between quality agriculture and productivist agriculture. and it's not mine. parliament voted against crop rotation, the only way out of monoculture. he voted against compliance with the water framework directive, a key european text for environmental protection. he voted against the disqualification of farmers from receiving subsidies for growing gmos. and against the reduction of the subsidy ceiling to eur 100 000. finally, the texts make almost no mention of the coherence of public policies for development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my socialist colleague, mr luis manuel capoulas santos, on support for rural development from the eafrd. the cap must take better account of the diversity of agricultural territories in europe and offer support to rural areas and disadvantaged areas which are subject to natural constraints or rugged terrain. i also welcome the vote on the financing of agroforestry, which covers all agricultural areas and will help to preserve biodiversity and landscapes and combat soil erosion.
in writing. a key issue: the reform of the common agricultural policy, which remains the union's first common policy, accounting for almost 40% of the european budget. we have made known our political messages to the council and the commission and voted on the mandate we give to our parliamentary negotiators. in this mandate, we express our desire for the cap to be more balanced, to continue to reduce disparities between farmers in the union, and to be more environmentally friendly through the so-called 'greening' of the cap. we want 30% of direct aid to farmers to be conditional on compliance with certain environmental practices, but with flexibility for small farms. we also want aid to be distributed first to 'active farmers', i.e. those who derive all or a very large part of their income from their agricultural activity. it is also a strong support for young farmers and small farms that the european parliament wishes to affirm through the ambitious mandate given to its representatives in the negotiations that are now opening.
in writing. rural development pursues three objectives for the common agricultural policy (cap): the competitiveness of agriculture, the sustainable management of natural resources, and the balanced development of rural areas. it is complementary to the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and is part of the common strategic framework which better links funds and maximises the impact of eu investments. i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision because rural development will lead to better competitiveness and sustainability of farms, in particular through the transfer of knowledge and innovation. it will also continue efforts to protect the environment and biodiversity by promoting the efficient use of resources. finally, rural development includes an economic and social dimension by including measures that promote the objectives of poverty reduction and economic development of the agricultural sector.
in writing. i welcome this vote which will give rural areas new means to develop over the period 2014-2020. following on from the previous eafrd, this new fund will finance a multitude of projects by local economic actors aimed at strengthening the agricultural sector, preserving the environment in rural areas and diversifying their activities. i have, however, wished to make some changes to this fund, which, in my view, should provide additional aid to regions with specific natural constraints, such as terrain, aridity or soil quality. i have asked the eafrd to recognise the mediterranean climate as a natural constraint, in order to help farmers in paca to cope better with drought and other constraints linked to this particular climate. the european commission must now come back to us with a legislative proposal on the designation of areas likely to be subject to natural or specific constraints. i'll make sure the mediterranean climate is in the picture.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the plan for the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy for the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. this report builds on the europe 2020 strategy by promoting resource efficiency for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for eu agriculture and rural areas. the cap system proposed here maintains a two-pillar structure but stresses the need to deliver on the key priorities of the european union. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am pleased that the priority of direct payments is to sustainable production in a more respectful environment.
in writing. following the vote on the cap, it is clear that the original ambitions have been seriously undermined: the plenary assembly has remained stuck on the agricultural policy of the past. the greening is reduced, whereas it was one of the biggest advances in the original proposal. another key measure that would have changed the face of the cap considerably was not adopted: the cap on aid of €200,000 was rejected by two votes to one. the lack of fairness in support for farmers is now glaring. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. balancing also with developing countries (decs). i am a supporter of food sovereignty and self-sufficiency, from local to continental, and regret that the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the cap in the developing countries has not been adopted. for all these reasons, this vote is a missed opportunity. the cap has not yet been reformed, and negotiations are still ongoing. for a healthy farming system, which allows farmers to live off their labour, which provides quality products and which is part of sustainable development, the mobilisation of both parliamentary and citizen representatives remains more necessary than ever.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by my colleague giovanni la via which aims to simplify the cap and the rules governing the procedure for submitting applications for funding. it contains various simplification elements, in particular by bringing together all the rules on cross-compliance in a single legislative act, thus improving their legibility.
in writing. we have approved new and more transparent rules for the management of the cap. the penalties system has been redesigned, penalties for non-compliance with greening requirements have been reduced, in order to give farmers time to adapt to these new environmental requirements. greener agriculture, yes, but not at the expense of jobs and growth in an already particularly fragile sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and fully support its desire to simplify an administrative apparatus which farmers consider too complex and to lighten the burden on farmers. i welcome the new developments in the agricultural advisory system, which make it possible for public and private actors to coexist, which will make it more effective. the priority given to small farming enterprises is also a key point for me in the development of this sector. finally, i welcome the development of the sanctions system towards greater anticipation (warning system) and proportionality, which will demonstrate to european citizens that the european union is not only a punitive attitude without discrimination.
in writing. the general objectives of a new common agricultural policy need to be re-examined. europeans have new expectations of food. they want an agriculture that respects the environment, the quality, traceability and food safety of products and the carbon footprint. this new policy will also have to be part of a global vision. the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change. the global organisation of agricultural markets will have to be redesigned taking into account the two main inspirations underlying the common agricultural policy: ensuring food security and preserving the living fabric of farmers everywhere.
in writing. i voted against this regulation because, as it stands, it will not allow the common agricultural policy to change direction. the environmentalists have suffered a serious and bitter defeat, as the overwhelming majority of our demands have not been adopted. the european parliament has made its choice between quality agriculture and productivist agriculture. and it's not mine. parliament voted against crop rotation, the only way out of monoculture. he voted against compliance with the water framework directive, a key european text for environmental protection. he voted against the disqualification of farmers from receiving subsidies for growing gmos. and against the reduction of the subsidy ceiling to eur 100 000. finally, the texts make almost no mention of the coherence of public policies for development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the financing, control and monitoring of the cap. it provides greater transparency and aims to strengthen the commitment of citizens and farmers to the common agricultural policy (cap). the european parliament wants to make public the names of the beneficiaries of the cap and the amount of agricultural aid, in order to increase the confidence of european taxpayers. the report also ensures that aid is still conditional on compliance with basic environmental, health and animal welfare requirements. finally, the report makes the cap easier to read and less bureaucratic for farmers by simplifying administrative procedures.
in writing. a key issue: the reform of the common agricultural policy, which remains the union's first common policy, accounting for almost 40% of the european budget. we have also made known our political messages to the council and the commission and voted on the mandate we give to our parliamentary negotiators. in this mandate, we express our desire for the cap to be more balanced, to continue to reduce disparities between farmers in the union, and to be more environmentally friendly through the so-called 'greening' of the cap. we want 30% of direct aid to farmers to be conditional on compliance with certain environmental practices, but with flexibility for small farms. we also want aid to be distributed first to 'active farmers', i.e. those who derive all or a very large part of their income from their agricultural activity. it is also a strong support for young farmers and small farms that the european parliament wishes to affirm through the ambitious mandate given to its representatives in the negotiations that are now opening.
in writing. we have today voted in favour of an ambitious new cap which will finally take into account environmental requirements, food security and fair redistribution. on this last point, we were unable to obtain a reduction in the ceiling of aid to eur 200 000, but the principle is nevertheless well established, as is that of the surplus on the first hectares, which is being supported by france. the requirement of transparency vis-à-vis taxpayers will also become a reality with the identification of the beneficiaries of the cap. on the environmental side, the cap must finally be reoriented towards an ecological transition taking into account the need to feed the continent, but with quality products and respecting our environment while accompanying our farmers in this change. finally, we have rejected the liberalization of this vital and fragile sector: we must regulate agricultural production and markets, in view of the risks of speculation for producers, our food independence and the quality of the products. the negotiations with the council are now beginning, and i trust our representatives and the progressive ministers, including stéphane le foll, to bring to a conclusion this major reform of a policy which is essential to the common destiny of europe.
in writing. carbon emissions must be reduced by 85% by 2050, including through energy efficiency, renewable energy or nuclear energy. it is essential to secure energy supplies and to maintain competitiveness without affecting the environment in a lasting way. this is why the eu has set up the eu emissions trading scheme (ets): a mechanism of co2 emission rights to reduce overall co2 emissions and meet the requirements of the kyoto protocol. the report aims to strengthen the mechanism for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions and to provide guidance for the deferral of co2 allowances in the european union. in favour of decarbonising the european union, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the transition to a low-carbon economy is a key eu objective. to achieve this, it is interesting that the union presents a roadmap, the idea being to draw up the energy mix by 2050, translating into concrete actions the path to a decarbonised economy. there was good in this own-initiative report, whether it was on renewable energy or energy efficiency. but i voted against the report in the end because of the very positive paragraphs on nuclear energy and the rejection of binding targets for greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency for 2030. while it is normal that, under the scenarios envisaged by the eu and in all likelihood, the energy mix should include all energy sources, without a priori, nuclear energy should not be considered as essential. the aim, in france as in other member states, is to reduce the share of nuclear energy in energy production. this will be achieved through voluntary energy diversification and the integration of the transition into a framework of energy efficiency and sobriety.
in writing. in the context of the 2050 objectives, ms tzavela recalled that it was up to the member states to set their own rules in this area, while recognising the merits of developing a coordinated european approach. it is with this in mind that the rapporteur calls for the establishment of a policy framework for 2030. it also highlights the importance of renewable energy sources, the global challenges we face, research and new technologies. as these issues are central to european citizens, i decided to give my vote to this report.
in writing. the european union has set out a roadmap for a low-carbon economy by 2050. non-binding targets have been adopted for greenhouse gas reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency, to allow member states time to adapt their economies to these environmental constraints. i did not, however, vote for the ets. a report on this subject is due in april, so i have decided to abstain until the expert's conclusions are known.
in writing. the approach adopted in this resolution reflects our ambition: an open approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions is needed if we are to achieve a low-carbon economy by 2050. in voting in favour of this resolution, i support the emphasis on employment and the fight against energy poverty. a secure and stable supply also requires the protection of the most vulnerable to enable everyone to meet their basic energy needs.
in writing. the union must support member states in their transition to cleaner energy, which is what citizens are demanding. however, as the report states here, it is essential that each member state should be able to preserve its independence in the field of energy security.
in writing. it is necessary to increase the predictability of european energy and climate policy by setting binding targets for 2030. the majority of meps seem to have given up all ambition in this area. a clear vote by the european parliament in favour of a strategy to decarbonise the european economy would have sent a strong political signal to the european commission and the council. the road map adopted today by the european parliament does not provide any structural guidance. the conservative inertia of this text on nuclear energy, which is still described as a "significant contributor" to decarbonisation, is simply scandalous. i do not want a european energy policy built on outdated and dangerous energy models and that is why i voted against this road map. energy efficiency and renewable energy and strong interconnection of networks are essential. for the same or lower cost, this would generate more jobs, more smes, more purchasing power, more energy security and, of course, better protection of the environment and health.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential to have a sound energy policy for the future of the european union. this report highlights the eu's responsibility in this vital area: its main task is to coordinate national energy policies. we must have a role in stimulating and regulating member states' energy policies and help to find incentive and innovative funding sources, particularly through public-private partnerships. research and innovation must be encouraged. we need a european energy market that is fluid and without barriers. member states must be able to work together to achieve a coherent and relevant european energy policy that responds well to the challenges of the future. there are many difficulties which require us to devote particular attention to this issue, notably the question of energy independence due to certain complex geopolitical balances or the need for a transition to a more varied energy package, for an economy with a smaller impact on the environment.
in writing. energy is crucial for the lives of citizens, industry and development. it is therefore necessary to consider how to anticipate, forecast and support the reduction of co2 emissions and propose a sustainable energy mix. the solutions proposed to ensure an effective change in the union's energy framework are not the right ones; they will lead to energy insecurity, to higher household bills. the directions being followed are dangerous for the future of the european energy sector. the report remains mired in a neoliberalism discredited by the economic crisis and insists on the need to further liberalise the sector and its infrastructures in order to complete a hypothetical and fragile european energy market. the financial approach of the text threatens our public services and, therefore, the most exposed households. it therefore advocates encouraging private investment in attractive and therefore profitable projects and promoting public capital in cases where difficulties or losses are likely. a great classic that today forces europe to put its knee to the ground. as a result of these mistaken political choices, when the subject deserved more audacity and ambition, i decided to vote against this proposal.
in writing. this own-initiative report calls for the eu to respect the greenhouse gas emission reductions recommended by the ipcc. it is in favour of a substantial development of renewable energies and high energy efficiency. that is the point on which i agree. the report is an ecological and therefore human nonsense. it offers no viable solution to the energy crisis. it considers the carbon market to be the main instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. it called for the full application of the rules for the liberalisation of the european energy market. he also called for the commission to be given the opportunity to present its proposals to the council. i am voting against this text and denouncing the dangerous blindness to the future of the human race shown by its drafters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out a roadmap for energy by 2050. energy investments are long-term investments: stakeholders, governments and citizens must be able to benefit from a minimum of visibility so that they know where to direct their efforts and in which types of energy production to invest (fossil, nuclear, electricity, wind, etc.). infrastructure that is 30 or 40 years old must be replaced in the next few years, and if the wrong choices are made, the catch-up will be much more expensive than the current cost. the parliament proposes a number of measures: investment in energy efficiency, the development of renewable energies, research funding, improved energy storage and the deepening of the european energy market.
in writing. i voted against this report on the european union's energy policy for 2050. firstly, because it is part of the continuation of the policy of liberalization of the sector, the devastating effects of which are well known, particularly in the field of tariffs, whereas officially, it should be recalled, the objective of liberalization was to reduce costs for the consumer. worse, the text accommodates this, since the social dimension and energy poverty are only dealt with in terms of compensatory measures for higher energy prices which will only increase inequality in access to energy. worse, they dare to put the burden of responsibility on the shoulders of the individual consumer. on energy efficiency, renewable energy and the reduction of ghg emissions, the resolution adopted is a false-voluntaryist discourse, taking little account of the recent setbacks in the union in this area, and failing to refer to the various binding objectives adopted! the ep proposes that the energy sector should be transformed to meet the challenges and objectives, particularly those relating to climate and social issues. it is time to make energy a common good, accessible to all.
in writing. on the occasion of the sad anniversary of the fukushima nuclear accident, the european parliament adopted a resolution to ensure the safety of nuclear power stations in the union. i am in favour of the idea that these stress tests are useful and that closer international cooperation is needed to ensure nuclear safety, now and in the future. i abstained on this report, however, because i considered that the debate had been diverted by the european greens who had launched an alarmist accusation against nuclear energy. tackling nuclear energy in this way directly challenges the achievement of the energy mix targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 and could prove dangerous for the economy and research in the european union.
in writing. the european level stress tests conducted after fukushima have highlighted the shortcomings and the need to strengthen the safety of the european nuclear fleet (according to the european commission report published after these tests). in france in particular, the work to be done is very large - in the order of tens of billions of euros. the fact that a plant has passed the stress tests does not guarantee its safety: the idea is shared in parliament, as is the need for binding safety standards. i voted against this resolution in the final vote. i regret that the closure of the oldest plants was not called for, and that the idea that the risk is still present, regardless of the results of the stress tests, was not supported. finally, it is regrettable that parliament does not support a european supervisory mechanism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which aims to guarantee and improve safety at nuclear power stations in europe. the text adopted is ambitious and binding. once the stress test is completed, member states will have to implement the recommended improvements. i voted against the idea that nuclear power operators should bear the full cost of any measure. this obligation is too undifferentiated and exclusive.
in writing. the second anniversary of the fukushima disaster reminds us of the importance of nuclear safety in europe. nuclear power plants now produce almost one third of the electricity and 15% of the energy consumed in the european union. the majority of nuclear reactors in operation today are located in europe, although not all member states have built them. there are currently 144 operational reactors in 16 member states and 6 under construction. the member state with the most reactors in operation is france, with 59. following the japanese disaster, the european union conducted stress tests on all eu nuclear power stations. these tests have shown that the safety standards recommended by the international atomic energy agency (iaea) and international best practices are not fully applied by all member states. we cannot accept this risky situation for long. all recommended safety improvements should therefore be implemented as a matter of urgency. with the nuclear safety directive about to be revised, it is essential that the european union has a real and strong nuclear risk management policy.
in writing. i welcome the fact that this resolution focuses on the prospects for improving nuclear safety in europe following the stress tests carried out in the wake of fukushima and does not call into question the place of nuclear in the energy mix of some member states. no serious risks requiring the closure of a power plant were identified. however, areas for improvement in safety have been identified for extreme events (seismic hazards, floods) and will require an adequate response. the independence of national nuclear safety authorities will also need to be strengthened and the eu will need to continue to promote the highest safety standards globally. in the interests of transparency, greater involvement of the european parliament - representing the european people - should be guaranteed in future debates on nuclear energy and nuclear safety in europe, but in compliance with the euratom treaty and the defined competences. i therefore abstained on the final vote on the resolution for legal reasons in order not to challenge the framework of the euratom treaty.
in writing. the report recalls that in europe more than 100 000 people live within a 30 km radius of 47 nuclear power stations. he said he was aware of the need to draw lessons from the fukushima daiichi accident. but he doesn't get any consequences. it does not call for the closure of nuclear power stations where several serious problems have been detected. it reiterated the need to improve the safety rules in nuclear power, but did not at any time call for an end to the subcontracting of nuclear safety checks to private bodies. the reality is alarming. the logic of profit means that these works are carried out by too small a number of workers and with too little time to ensure maximum safety. the text does not mention that there is no such thing as zero risk in nuclear energy. so he has no plans to release this dangerous energy. i abstain in support of the few improvements to the safety rules proposed. i would like to point out, however, the blindness of the authors of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on stepping up the fight against racism, xenophobia and hate crimes. at a time when populism, hatred of others and scapegoating are on the rise in a european union weakened by the crisis, it was essential to establish increased vigilance to combat discrimination in all member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution to refresh the current legislation against racism and xenophobia to initiate a draft anti-discrimination directive. as europe suffers from the rise of extremist movements and the spread of their racist and xenophobic rhetoric, we must remain vigilant and show our willingness to preserve our values of tolerance and openness.
in writing. european union law guarantees a common minimum level of equal treatment and legal protection for all those living and working in europe. in addition, the european union is expected to actively fight for the elimination of all forms of discrimination based on ethnic origin or sexual orientation, in the world of work as well as in all areas of the public and private spheres. despite these measures, there are still too many cases of discrimination based on ethnic origin or sexual orientation. worse still, in some states, discrimination and hate crimes seem to be on the rise. some european leaders do not hesitate to stigmatize and target certain minorities in their political speeches. at a time when the european union is experiencing an unprecedented economic and institutional crisis, europeans need to show unity and solidarity more than ever and reaffirm their will to live together and share a common destiny. member states must therefore do their utmost to prevent and condemn in the strongest possible terms acts of xenophobia and racism and any other form of discrimination.
in writing. reading this resolution, there is no doubt: for you, the bastards are still the same, the victims are still the same. racist european bastards on one side, poor innocent members of 'minorities' on the other. and of course, the worst of the bastards, the political parties that intend to defend the interests of their people. the white man's eternal sob. but did i miss something ? who was it that a year ago was carrying out the massacres in montauban and toulouse? the victims, chosen for the symbol: military men in the service of france, a country hated; jewish children and their father, in the courtyard of a school. and why, according to the french ministry of the interior, do attacks considered racist spike after every event related to the middle east or international terrorism? you 're hemiplegic: you willfully deny anti-white racism; you cover up foreign over-crime; you encourage systematic foreign preference and communalism at the expense of the "natives" who pay you. you are demanding more and more immigration, more and more exotic, more and more incompatible with european values and traditions... you are the ones who are primarily responsible for the explosive situations that are developing in many of our countries.
in writing. this resolution calls on the european union and the member states to combat racism and xenophobia. it advocates, among other things, the protection of victims and witnesses to encourage them to report crimes resulting from such crimes. it stresses the need for roma integration. it denounces all discrimination. i support it for all these reasons. i regret, however, that discrimination is almost exclusively seen in the context of the fight against crime and not in the context of the law and policies that foster it. not a word about the legal discrimination against lgbt people in a majority of european countries. not a word about unlawful discrimination against women. no denunciation of policies that increase inequality and fuel hatred. i have nothing against the back-and-forth referral of racist and xenophobic far-right parties and left-wing parties who are fighting against all inequalities in the dominant discourses. it's a weak text. i am voting for it, however, in order to encourage the fight against racism, xenophobia and all forms of discrimination.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution calling for the fight against racism, xenophobia and hate crimes to be strengthened. violence based on the rejection of the other is indeed a daily reality in the european union. immigrants, roma, homosexuals, disabled people are victims of this every day, not to mention violence against women. the rejection of the other is exacerbated by times of social and political crisis. it is appalling that some, including those at the highest level of responsibility in the member states, do not hesitate to use them for political purposes. nicolas sarkozy was a sad example. i regret, however, that the majority of the european parliament has refused to make any explicit reference to islamophobia. similarly, it has almost completely refused to stress the importance of education and prevention, preferring instead to favour the repressive approach. the resolution, adopted by a large majority, will nevertheless send a clear signal to the commission to propose the eu's signature of the un convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination and to unblock the council's veto on the draft equality directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls for the european union to take action to protect the health of citizens from endocrine disruptors, chemicals that interfere with the hormonal system. we are in contact almost daily with these endocrine disruptors which can be found in plastics, cosmetics, paints and food packaging. caution should be exercised in relation to the health damage that endocrine disruptors can cause, such as breast cancer or reduced male fertility. that is why we want to include these potentially dangerous substances under the cover of the reach (registration, evaluation and restricted authorisation of chemicals) regulation to ensure appropriate information and assessment methods.
in writing. compared to well-identified chemicals, endocrine disruptors remain unknown to both the general public and national and european legislation. endocrine disruptors are chemical molecules that are found everywhere - in our environment and in many of the objects we use every day - and that are thought to have an impact on our endocrine system and our health. the own-initiative report adopted today by the european parliament warns of the dangers and the need to take these chemical molecules more seriously. given their widespread presence, the causal link between a suspected disruptive substance and its health effects remains very difficult to establish. however, in this report we call on the european commission to revise its strategy on this subject and in particular to come forward with proposals for general criteria based on the definition developed by the world health organisation and to introduce a clear definition of 'disruptive' substances in the eu. finally, we call on the commission to concentrate its efforts on informing and raising public awareness of the existence of these substances and their potential effects.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which aims to reduce exposure to endocrine disruptors suspected of affecting hormones. this is a strong signal to the commission that it should propose criteria for defining and assessing these disruptors. although we do not yet have all the answers to the toxicity of these products, the precautionary principle required us to act to regulate these substances of concern and protect the health of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the westlund report. in order to counter the growing threat to public health posed by endocrine disruptors, i support the measures proposed by the rapporteur. i believe that identifying the presence of endocrine disruptors in products and objects of everyday life will help those most exposed to protect themselves against certain cancers and neurological disorders.
in writing. the text has two main aims: first, to better protect europeans, especially the most vulnerable, from the risks these substances could pose. the second is to increase information on these substances, so that their potential effects can be better assessed. these endocrine disruptors raise major uncertainties: they must be addressed urgently and that is why i supported this report.
in writing. endocrine disruptors, exogenous chemicals that cause harmful effects on the body, can be found in all types of everyday products, such as medicines, cosmetics or food additives. as the commission is currently reviewing its strategy on endocrine disruptors, it is important, above all, to ensure a high level of protection of the health of europeans. respect for the precautionary principle, which guides eu public health action, means refusing to set a minimum exposure threshold below which endocrine disruptors would be harmless, when the current state of research is still insufficient to judge this, and uncertain in relation to the potential 'cocktail effects' of endocrine disruptors mixed with other substances. further research into these products will help to better understand their effects on human health and to better manage the risks. in this sense, chemicals for which data are lacking and which have endocrine disrupting properties should be covered by the reach regulation.
in writing. given the incomplete knowledge we have about the effects of these chemicals on our hormones, it is essential to apply the precautionary principle and to put in place the measures necessary for their identification and study, but above all for their regulation at european level. i have therefore supported the adoption of this text, which helps to protect the health of our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. endocrine disruptors are natural or artificial substances outside the body that can disrupt the functioning of the hormonal system and cause harmful effects in both the short and long term on an individual and his offspring. they are everywhere: in plastic bottles, pesticides, electronic devices, cosmetics and even in the nipples of baby bottles in some member states. a pregnant woman may unknowingly expose her unborn child to the risk of hormonal imbalance. in some countries, up to 40 percent of young men have poor sperm quality. nearly 800 chemicals are known or suspected to interfere with hormone receptors. this will be the subject of a proposal for european regulation in the coming months.
in writing. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, responds to the steady and sharp increase in reproductive disorders (such as impaired sperm quality, testicular cancer, precocious puberty, sexual organ malformations, congenital malformations, cancer and diabetes in general) and neurological disorders, which are now known to be caused by endocrine disruptors. the report therefore proposes very ambitious measures which will make it possible to limit the use of endocrine disruptors in products targeted at certain consumers (skin care products, textiles, toys, etc.) without, however, penalising the major industrial sectors too heavily.
in writing. in the last twenty years, there has been an increase in the incidence of diseases and hormonal disorders in humans, leading to numerous reproductive problems, an increased incidence of certain cancers and an increase in metabolic disorders. an increasing number of scientific studies suggest that chemical endocrine disruptors (pesticides, plastic additives, steroids, etc.) play a role, although it is still difficult to establish a definite causal link between exposure to various chemicals and hormonal imbalances that may have adverse health effects. in this context, it seems to me essential to speed up research in order to resolve the remaining questions, while taking measures to protect human health. the precautionary principle must guide policy action in this area and it seems to me crucial that the current rules be thoroughly reviewed with a view to a rapid update. in addition, consumers need to have clear and reliable information on the potential dangers of endocrine disruptors, their effects and the possibility of protecting themselves against them, and the commission as well as the member states should act in this regard. that is the spirit of this resolution, which i support.
in writing. the major demographic changes ahead call for a rethink of our approach to legal immigration in europe. the working-age population is expected to decline by 14 million over the next decade, and the reception and integration of new immigrants must be encouraged and improved to ensure the long-term economic growth and social balance of the european union. coordination of our social security systems, and even of our migration and asylum policies, is possible, provided that national specificities, particularly those relating to the labour market, are taken into account. i do not think that there is any need for harmonization of these policies at the moment, which is why i voted against this report, which goes too far in its proposals. each state must remain in control of its immigration policy, but this must be done within the framework of effective european cooperation. as such, i oppose the right to vote of non-eu foreigners and refuse to recognise illegal immigration.
in writing. managing migration flows, the quintessential european subject, is a central challenge in the european union today. the initiative report by nadja hirsch on the integration of migrants is to be welcomed for its progressive approach. given that the working age population will start to decline from 2012 onwards (despite record unemployment) in the union, the integration of migrants is a public policy necessity. integration is a mutual commitment; if employment is the key to successful integration, the fight against discrimination, particularly at work, is paramount. the principle of equal pay and working conditions must apply to all. the principle of round trips, as is possible with circular migration, would be a significant step forward. in this report i voted for the principle of the right of migrants to vote in local elections; i regret that paragraphs concerning more specifically the undocumented and refugees were not adopted. finally, i support the rapporteur's proposal to create a mechanism for the recognition of qualifications and diplomas of third country nationals.
in writing. the demographic situation in the european union is such that the working age population will decline by 14 million over the next decade. this requires us to take social and economic measures to allow the integration of new immigrants that europe will need when growth and employment levels are restored. however, while coordination of our social security systems may be necessary, our migration and asylum policies remain subject to imperatives linked to each national situation, in particular the labour market situation. european coordination in the field of immigration is to be considered, but in no case harmonization. the report does not make that distinction, so i have decided not to support it.
in writing. the demographic situation in the european union is such that the working age population will decline by 14 million over the next decade. this requires us to take social and economic measures to enable the integration of new immigrants that europe will need when growth and employment levels are restored. international labour mobility can be an opportunity for europe if immigration and employment legislation fosters the integration of immigrant workers, and if the portability of pension rights and the coordination of social security systems are improved. however, i did not vote in favour of this report because, under the guise of the necessary european coordination of our policies, it introduces measures to facilitate access to employment for asylum seekers and foreign students, and to introduce the right to vote for migrants. i think that at the moment it is not responsible to our fellow citizens to consider such harmonised legislation at european level on immigration and asylum without a boost to growth and employment.
in writing. at a time when the european union has more than 26 million unemployed and more than a quarter of its young people are looking for a job, this report is indecent. he wants to encourage so-called labour immigration with very few qualification criteria! even language skills cannot be a selection tool, that is to say! the report solves the problem of illegal immigration by proposing to open borders without restrictions and by regularizing the illegal immigrants already present. the integration component contains all the revenue guaranteeing the community and the foreign preference. for example, national identities must be sufficiently flexible to integrate and reconcile the specific characteristics of different cultural origins (§ 14). or that the right to vote, as well as jobs in the civil service and the army, are powerful means of integration. in other words, host societies must conform to the customs and habits of migrants, grant them all possible economic, social and political rights, and demand nothing in return. in fact, mrs hirsch's report is less about the integration of migrants than about the disintegration of our nations.
in writing. i fully support this report which rightly highlights the serious shortcomings that we must regret in the policies currently being pursued at national level on the integration of migrants. efforts to integrate migrants are still insufficient. this is a two-pronged process and should not be reduced to obligations imposed on migrants alone. this process should include social and political participation, including the right to vote for foreigners in local elections. this report also stresses the need to ensure that asylum seekers have faster access to education and the labour market, and i fully share this view. i also agree that this report deals with the problem of illegal immigration of labour and the need to provide, as a solution, in addition to effective controls, an improvement in access to legal immigration channels, a sector of european policies which is still far too little developed. finally, the call for migrant women to be given autonomy in relation to their right of residence vis-à-vis their husbands seems to me to be equally in the right direction.
in writing. the demographic situation in the european union is such that the working age population will decline by 14 million over the next decade. this requires us to take social and economic measures to enable the integration of new immigrants that europe will need when growth and employment levels are restored. however, while coordination of our social security systems may be necessary, our migration and asylum policies remain subject to imperatives linked to each national situation, in particular the labour market situation. european coordination in the field of immigration is to be considered, but in no case harmonization. the report presented to parliament, for failing to make this distinction, did not receive my support.
in writing. the report states that since 2000, about a quarter of new jobs have been created thanks to the contribution of immigrants. it's not a detail. this is a good reminder. i'm glad you did. it advocates the fight against discrimination, the application of collective agreements to immigrant workers, respect for the right to work for "wives" (it would have been better to ask for this for spouses, why limit it to heterosexual and married couples anyway?), and insists on equal pay and working conditions between immigrant and national workers. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. that is why i support this text. i regret, however, that it welcomes the adoption of the single european act and, in line with it, confines itself to considering migration from the perspective of work alone.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the integration of migrants and its effects on the labour market because it is exceptionally rather positive in its assessment of the integration of migrant workers from third countries, access to housing and employment, the need to coordinate social protection systems between the eu and third countries and to fight firmly against racism, xenophobia, exclusion and discrimination of all kinds which migrants regularly face, even if it contains some paradoxes, particularly in view of the emphasis on circular migration and the view of the commission and the member states in particular. this resolution ignores the dark side of europe's increasingly restrictive migration policy, which has failed to learn the lessons of what has been called the 'arab spring'. it highlights the positive aspects of the legislation on the single residence and work permit, without stressing that it concerns only so-called legal migrants, and says nothing about the criminalisation of migrants or the intolerable role of frontex. i want to see a positive aspect in this, a sign from the european parliament in favour of the integration of migrants which we can use.
in writing. asbestos has now virtually disappeared from the european union, with many substitutes being introduced and developed to compensate for its use and its disastrous health consequences (cancer risks). this own-initiative report emphasises the possibility of establishing action plans for the safe elimination of asbestos in public buildings and in buildings required to provide services requiring public access as early as 2028. i welcome this report which calls on the european commission to prepare a specific directive establishing minimum requirements for the vocational training of workers in the construction and maintenance of buildings.
in writing. the causal relationship between exposure to asbestos - even in small doses - and the development of specific diseases, including cancers, is no longer debated: the number of victims in europe is estimated at between 20 000 and 30 000. asbestos in public and private buildings is a serious public health hazard. the european parliament was not spared, as asbestos dust was released recently when a pillar was pierced, causing part of the institution to be contaminated - albeit temporarily. the report by stephen hughes aims to highlight the risks and calls on the commission to introduce minimum training standards applicable throughout the eu. in order to give real scope to the recognition of asbestos-related diseases, but above all to empower decision-makers, this own-initiative report advocates compensation for victims as a matter of course, without the burden of proof of their damage being on them. legislation providing for exemptions from criminal liability for decision-makers is condemned: everyone must bear the consequences of the acts. finally, in the wake of the clemenceau case, we call on the commission to ban exports for the purpose of asbestos removal where workers are not protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the elimination of asbestos which still exists. i supported the idea of giving member states time to conduct impact studies and cost-benefit analyses, so that they can develop plans to eliminate traces of asbestos in public buildings by 2028. it should be recalled that france has banned the use of asbestos in new building construction since 1997 and requires an "asbestos test" for the purchase of any building or house dating from before 1997.
in writing. asbestos remains a serious public health problem. too many europeans are still exposed to this dangerous substance because of lack of knowledge and information. i support the approach taken in this report, which is to focus on training the actors involved at all levels of the hierarchy and on recognising victims to ensure that they are properly supported. prevention and repair, two keywords that should guide our approach to asbestos.
in writing. as the health of european workers is at stake, i felt obliged to vote in favour of this text, which paves the way for stricter regulations on asbestos. in view of the many health risks associated with the presence of asbestos in buildings, it seems necessary that the european union should take all possible measures to manage and eliminate asbestos. that is why i fully support the specific request in this text for the union to remove asbestos from the buildings of the european institutions. the union must set a good example.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because, although a great deal has been done to solve the public health problems related to asbestos, we still have a lot of work to do. in france, for example, new cases continue to be detected, even though asbestos has been banned there since 1997. asbestos is still present in many buildings and equipment. its exact location is often unknown (thus posing a threat to the general public). asbestos-related diseases are now the second leading cause of occupational diseases and the first cause of workrelated deaths (excluding accidents). this slow poison can affect many years after exposure. in some factories, real asbestos removal is needed, not just partial dust removal. the cleaning should not be entrusted to an in-house team but to professionals in the asbestos field. we need to know better the european statistics and figures on this problem. it is necessary to list the cases identified, the quality of the treatment offered to the patients, and to create a european map of the problems still existing.
in writing. i voted for this text because of the obvious public health imperatives. although the use of asbestos is now virtually banned in the eu, the number of asbestos-related cancers in western europe continues to rise and various occupational groups are still at risk of exposure to asbestos, whether they are aware of it or not. the major health hazards of asbestos are no longer to be demonstrated and it was therefore important to make the monitoring system for the prohibition of the use of asbestos more effective, which this text will make possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the risks of asbestos to health at work and the prospects for the complete elimination of asbestos still in existence, so that the commission takes further action to protect european workers from the risks of exposure to asbestos, which is known to be toxic, even in small quantities. despite the ban on the use of asbestos, it is still found in many public and private buildings, as well as in ships, machinery, tunnels, water pipes, and so forth. for example, the european strategy for renovating buildings to improve their energy performance should be accompanied by a strategy for asbestos removal. models developed by the european commission should allow the monitoring of asbestos in buildings, including housing, and other infrastructure and workplaces. progress is also possible on the part of the member states in informing workers and employers about the risks of asbestos before work begins. this would be in addition to the existing health and safety protections imposed by eu law.
in writing. "every week 20 workers die of asbestos-related diseases" has long been the rallying cry of a campaign by european trade unions. despite the eu ban on the production and import of asbestos or products containing it, asbestos remains present in many public and private buildings, and in some transport and materials. under pressure from the alde and ppe groups, the original report was somewhat watered down. the references to "mandatory" community action have been removed. but it is still moving in the right direction. it called for the detailed detection and registration of products containing asbestos to improve working conditions and promote the recognition and compensation of asbestos victims, with the aim of a complete ban by 2023. it also calls for increased monitoring and awareness-raising programmes and activities and for systematic medical follow-up of victims. i therefore voted in favour of this report, especially as the main demands of my colleague sabine wils, the fictitious rapporteur for the gue/ngl, have been incorporated into the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which contains several proposals to allow mutual societies to operate at european and cross-border level. this status of european mutual society would be an opportunity to place mutual societies on an equal footing by giving all of them the same opportunities to give a european dimension to their organisation and activities. this status should provide them with the legal instruments necessary to facilitate their cross-border and transnational activities and a means of grouping together and developing their organisation and activities within the single market. this report makes relevant proposals to the commission on the status, scope and governance of this european mutual fund.
in writing. based on values of solidarity, mutual societies are important actors in the 'social' market economy which the european union must strive to promote. by defending the general interest, promoting sustainable practices and demonstrating a high degree of social responsibility, mutual societies are working to preserve the european social model and are playing a positive role in these times of crisis. they have indeed withstood the financial crisis well, particularly in the field of insurance and social protection. for all these reasons, they should be given greater recognition in the european union. their diversity and specificity are not negligible assets for europe today. that is the meaning of the european parliament's vote: to vote - once again - in favour of a european statute for mutual societies. the idea is to give mutual societies the same tools as any other company: mutual societies must be able to work at european level, to group together, to develop on an equal footing with other companies in europe. we therefore call on the european commission to make a new proposal creating a european mutual insurance statute.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal to create the european mutual status, which aims to facilitate cross-border and transnational medical activities by merging existing mutual societies. without prejudice to the specificities of each member state, this statute will make it possible to place mutual societies on an equal footing and to introduce the concept in those member states which do not yet have it. as a medical doctor by training, i am particularly sensitive to the establishment of a european system of mutual assistance so that every european citizen has access to care through this system of solidarity and mutual assistance.
in writing. facilitating the establishment and operation of mutual societies at european level means streamlining the insurance market on the continent, for the daily benefit of europeans. this report is intended to stimulate reflection on the subject, and i support the ambitions it sets out.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, luigi berlinguer, because it is important that the commission finally commits itself to proposing an instrument to create a european mutual status, which has many advantages. mutual societies play a major role in the european union's economy, providing healthcare to over 160 million european citizens and employing over 350 000 people. this common statute could provide a legal basis for mutual societies to operate across borders, as opposed to the current system whereby mutual societies are subject to competition from conventional for-profit undertakings. it will also allow for better account to be taken of the specific features of mutual societies in european legislation. finally, it could promote and spread the mutualist model in europe. in the context of the crisis we are experiencing, it is important to promote mutual societies in their role as a social buffer. this is all the more urgent as the crisis threatens the union's social cohesion, growth and, more broadly, political stability itself.
in writing. this report asks the european commission, which alone has the legislative initiative, to propose a statute for european mutual funds. in its recommendations, the european parliament refers to the basic provisions of european mutual societies and to the principles and values which should always govern the organisation, operation and objectives of mutual societies in the eu member states: democratic governance, solidarity, reinvestment of profits in activities, absence of shareholders, organisation and provision of services and services in the interests of their members, etc. the adoption of such legislation would finally make it possible to make progress towards the recognition of the different families of the social economy in the european union and to bring it into line with the principle of freedom of enterprise, whatever its status, and not to want for all purposes that all enterprises are gradually obliged to imitate capital companies, in particular in the name of the so-called prudential rules. it is high time the commission acknowledged that it made a mistake in withdrawing a legislative proposal in this direction in 2006. i therefore naturally voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to underline my solidarity with the egyptian people in this crucial period of democratic transition, by calling on the egyptian government to ensure full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the report underlines the concern of meps about the increasing polarization in egyptian society and the recurrent violence.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on egypt which provides for the review of eu aid if the country does not show significant progress on human rights, the rule of law and democratic reforms. it is worth noting that in 2012-2013, the eu provided €5 billion in aid. this aid has not brought about any significant improvement in the situation, as the country is becoming increasingly polarized and violence is unrelenting. the eu will therefore set clearer conditions for granting aid under the 'more for more' principle.
in writing. what is happening in egypt is of particular concern. the economic situation is catastrophic. the eu is facing a political, institutional, constitutional and democratic crisis. following the arab spring, the european union revised its neighbourhood policy, particularly towards the mediterranean countries, by incorporating the principle of more for more, i.e. more aid to countries making more efforts to develop a rule of law. it must also mean less for less. we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past and blindly finance countries without having the assurance that fundamental freedoms and equality for all citizens, men and women, are respected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which condemns the nuclear tests of the democratic people's republic of korea and its official announcement that it reserves the right to carry out a pre-emptive nuclear strike. i regret that this state has withdrawn from the non-aggression pact with the republic of korea and has closed its red phone with seoul. finally, i deplore the deterioration of the human rights situation in the country.
in writing. i voted for the strengthening of sanctions against north korea following its nuclear tests last february. the continuation of the nuclear programme threatens the security of the entire region, so it is important that north korea ceases its provocations and threats. in this resolution, we call on china to use its influence and to take a stand as north korea's main trading partner. the eu is strongly committed to the dramatic situation of food crisis in north korea, providing €10 million in aid to help the 'acute food crisis'.
in writing. the international community has recently and rightly tightened sanctions against north korea following pyongyang's development of a nuclear programme that could endanger the stability of asia. as the north korean regime continues to increase its provocations against its neighbours by carrying out nuclear missile tests, the european union must send a strong message urging north korea to put an end to the escalation of tensions in the region and to improve the human rights situation on its territory. the many violations of rights, the almost total restriction of individual freedoms, the rejection of democracy, make the situation today unbearable for north koreans who are hit by recurrent food shortages. on all these issues, the international community, china, north korea's great neighbour, and the european union must be more involved.
in writing. i supported this resolution on north korea, which addresses the three main concerns that north korea has today. in the context of the nuclear tests last february, the first of these is of course the question of armaments, particularly nuclear weapons. we therefore call on north korea to refrain from further provocations or threats and to ratify the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. we also call on it to reinstate its pre-existing commitments to a moratorium on missile launches. the question of armaments must not be allowed to overshadow the question of respect for human rights, and in this respect i am very pleased that the text calls on north korea to declare a moratorium on all executions, to put an end to extrajudicial executions and enforced disappearances, and to release political prisoners. the resolution also calls on the commission to maintain the existing humanitarian aid programmes and communication channels with north korea and on the north korean authorities to ensure that all citizens have access to food and humanitarian assistance.
in writing. i welcome this report which updates, normalises and strengthens eu-china relations. this own-initiative report is part of the continuity of the comprehensive partnership established since 1975 between the two powers by seeking synergies between china's 12th five year plan and the europe 2020 strategy. to do this, we called on the new leadership of the chinese communist party to further democratize and political reforms, to respect minimum social standards and to ensure the prompt implementation of all the rules of the world labour organization. the report also calls on the chinese government to promote political association between the tibetan and uighur peoples, to respect the right of every citizen to freedom of religion and belief and to pursue cooperative approaches with its neighbours, such as increasing contacts with taiwan or discussions with japan on the thorny issue of the disputed islands in the china sea.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the new dimension of eu-china relations over the last 40 years. while china is the leading economic power in the global economy, it is important that it also becomes a political power. the adoption of this report has sent a strong signal to china to implement the political and social reforms that are sorely needed to modernise and democratize the country.
in writing. the new chinese leadership team faces many challenges in the coming years. at the level of its domestic policy, it will be necessary to accompany the major changes in chinese society with ambitious reforms. the fight against growing inequalities, the liberalization of information, the fight against state corruption, the reconciliation of economic development and environmental protection are now at the heart of china's concerns. in the field of foreign policy, china must assume its responsibilities in the world order and in the region. it now has a role to play in ending the escalation of tensions between the west and north korea. china must also put an end to its territorial disputes with japan and taiwan in order to guarantee stability in this part of the world and thus ensure the security of the major sea trade routes of asia, used by many european traders.
in writing. this report is full of imperial arrogance. it is pathetic that it is attacking china at the very moment when european right-wing parties like the ump have created a "privileged partnership" with the ccp and eu countries are competing with each other for market loans and chinese favors. this report makes a ridiculous criticism of chinese political developments, which instead depicts the european authoritarian kleptocracy. i vote against, with a laugh at this nonsense.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a useful complement to the one we adopted last year, which dealt only with the economic and trade aspect of our relations. the human rights situation, the opacity of the budget and the defence strategy, aid to the developing countries of africa and the americas are all issues that need to be addressed in a high-level eu-china dialogue. other, more sectoral, agreements and conventions could already be concluded, which would strengthen our links with china in priority sectors. these proposals are in this report, which is why i supported it in the plenary.
in writing. i abstained on this report on eu-china relations. this report is a rare hypocrisy. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu's external relations are not distorted by the threat of a military coup, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the threat of a military coup. but all this seems to be just fine talk by which the eu hides the reality of what it is interested in in china: a market of 1.3 billion people. and so is the eu's interest in attracting chinese who can travel abroad. the european union is the world's leading tourist destination, 100 million chinese are expected to travel around the world by 2020 and initiatives to attract these new tourist flows should therefore be supported.
in writing. as co-chair of the friends of sport in the european parliament, sport policy is a subject that is particularly close to my heart. sport is a powerful tool for public health, social and territorial cohesion and economic development. match fixing, cheating and corruption in sport are all unacceptable practices that call into question the integrity of the sporting movement. the situation is all the more worrying as these sophisticated and globalised behaviours are often associated with money laundering, which is directly linked to organised crime. i have of course supported this resolution which calls for coordination between all actors (betting operators, sports organisations, member states, europol) to identify, combat and punish these practices. this coordination should also benefit the education and awareness-raising of athletes and young people in particular.
in writing. europol's 'veto' operation has revealed that football matches are commonly rigged: at least 380 in europe in recent years. this corruption, which affects sport as a whole, goes hand in hand with human trafficking and money laundering. i welcome this resolution which emphasizes this fact and the need for european action in this area. the publication by the commission of a biannual anti-corruption report, including analyses and recommendations for each member state, is good news, but the european executive must go further. the fight against match-fixing and organised crime requires coordination of the activities of the main players in sport (sports organisations, national police and judicial authorities and gambling operators). the commission must also make proposals for member states to criminalise match-fixing. the council should swiftly debate the proposal for a new directive on money laundering, to address the issue of the use of online sports betting for this purpose.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on corruption in sport, to encourage member states to coordinate, to promote the exchange of information and to punish match-fixing more severely. the scandal revealed in february showed that these practices threaten the integrity of the sport and fuel money laundering. the penalties are still rare in this area, while the profits of criminals are reported to be 8 million euros. this resolution will promote the integrity of sport through education, the establishment of codes of conduct in clubs and the awareness raising of young people and consumers.
in writing. the rigging of sports matches is not only a pure and simple distortion of the sporting spirit: it can also be an instrument in the service of organised crime. in order to ensure that european sport remains fair play, i voted in favour of this resolution. it is time for us to take this threat seriously, by putting in place the means to uncover and punish the networks that are behind it. this will require coordinated action between member states, but also at international level.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because it calls on the european commission to take action against match-fixing. the europol investigation of february 2012 showed that match-fixing was becoming increasingly sophisticated and globalised. not only does this practice threaten the integrity of sport, but it also leads to money laundering linked to drug and human trafficking, which feeds organised crime. the penalties are few and far between, but the activity is highly profitable: the criminals reportedly made a profit of over 8 million euros. the resolution calls on the member states to coordinate their efforts to combat corruption, to promote the exchange of information, to punish match-fixing more severely, to identify countries where illegal betting is taking place and to strengthen international cooperation with these countries. finally, it proposes to promote the integrity of sport through education, the introduction of codes of conduct in clubs and awareness-raising among young people and consumers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which promotes the fight against trade-distorting measures and aims to improve transparency in the markets for agricultural commodity derivatives. i want to support the fight against human rights violations, labour law violations and environmental pollution at every stage of the cotton value chain, including in the textile and clothing sectors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu joining the international cotton consultative committee (iccc), which is the global forum for consultation between cotton-producing and cotton-consuming countries to combat child labour and the misuse of pesticides in the cotton sector. parliament has expressed its need for ethical rules in this sector, whereas only 1% of world production is produced on european plantations, while europe consumes 15% and imports 25% of the world total. it is necessary to restore ethical rules in the cotton sector to prevent the clothes we wear in europe from being the product of child labour and from destroying the ecosystem of the producing countries in a lasting way.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it highlights the difficulties faced by the cotton sector in integrating international labour standards throughout the value chain. we want better enforcement of the regulations on forced child labour. we also want the eu, as the largest provider of development aid to the cotton sector, to respond with sanctions in cases of slavery or forced labour in the cotton supply chain. while there are already private initiatives in the sector, such as the better cotton initiative or the global organic textile standard, we believe that a common traceability mechanism could be implemented and enforced by the international cotton advisory committee (icac) via a labelling system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this parliament resolution called on sustainability in the global cotton value chain. beyond the usual jargon, it would indeed be urgent to combat all that distorts international trade, particularly in cotton, to the benefit of the richer countries and to the detriment of small producers in developing countries. again, this is obvious. the working conditions imposed by the textile industries and their subcontractors are indeed intolerable, not least because they include the use of child labour in the cotton fields. i voted for this resolution, although it seems to me to be essentially a declaration of good intentions and is very weak in relation to the issues at stake. i regret in particular that the amendments which i had co-signed with my irish colleague, mr paul murphy, were rejected. the amendments aimed in particular to establish a legally binding corporate social responsibility (csr) system and to ban the dangerous sandblasting of clothing which exposes workers to serious health risks.
author. - mr president, in 1971 the war of independence between what was then called east and west pakistan claimed thousands, if not millions, of victims. one can only understand the need for recognition and reparation for the suffering expressed by the victims and their families. in 2010, a tribunal was finally set up to try the crimes committed by the bangladeshi leaders of the massacres. but it is the decisions of this court that have created the violence of the last few weeks. more than ever, the bangladeshi government cannot compromise on respect for international judicial standards and, in particular, the right to a fair trial. it is not acceptable that under the pressure of the street he should change his legislation, at the risk, not of calming the spirits, but of rekindling the fire. and that's exactly what happened. violence is on the rise and the authorities are responding with repression. the government, but also all the political parties, must take their responsibility to restore calm. the horror cannot happen again.
author. - mr president, ten years after the intervention, without a un mandate, of the international coalition led by the american and british authorities, the least that can be said is that we can ask ourselves what the practical results of this intervention have been for the iraqi people. amnesty international has just published its annual report on the state of human rights in the world. the part on iraq is overwhelming, including the role of the us security forces as long as they were on iraqi soil, that is, until the end of 2011. un reports have also denounced the human rights violations perpetrated by the private military and security companies set up by the international coalition, which enjoy near-impunity. more than 12,000 people are currently being held without trial in iraq. popular protests are severely repressed. at least 20 people were killed in recent protests in baghdad last february. minorities are the main victims of the ethno-religious partition of the country. the situation of the turkmen is a sad illustration of the deterioration of this situation. their identity, denied since world war i, is still denied today. they are unfortunate to live mostly in one of the most coveted regions of the country, rich in natural resources. the resolution proposed today does not seem to us to be fully up to the challenge. we shall vote for it, however, because, although it is not sufficient, it calls all the parties concerned to dialogue, and that is what we consider essential.
for the greens/efa group mr president, 4 500 prisoners on hunger strike are denouncing their conditions of detention and the death of one of their own under torture. in china, russia and venezuela, it would be the headline of all western media, always concerned with defending human rights around the world. but it is "only" about palestinian prisoners and the death of arafat jaradat. 4 900 palestinians are being held by israel, including 195 children, 178 of whom are in administrative detention, a practice israel uses to hold palestinians indefinitely without charge or trial. according to unicef, 7,000 children have been arrested, interrogated, prosecuted by military courts since 2003, children who suffer abuse. the un special rapporteur, richard falk, recently expressed disgust at the continuing violations of human rights in israeli prisons. the incarceration of palestinians in israeli territory is a violation of the fourth geneva convention. one more, you tell me! faced with the complicit passivity of our institutions, civil society which has been engaged for several years in the bds campaign against the colonization of palestine will launch, on april 17, a global campaign for the end of administrative detention. since israel has delegated security in its prisons to the european company g4s, it seems to me that the european union is particularly concerned about this issue.
mr president, i am speaking on the basis of the rules of procedure, of which i have forgotten the article, which provides that the european anthem should be played when we receive heads of state or at solemn sittings. we have recently received the president of the republic of tunisia, mr moncef marzouki, and the president of the state of israel, mr shimon peres, and the anthem was not played. i would like to know whether there has been any change in this practice and i regret that the anthem was not played in the house on both occasions.
the question is "blue cardboard". i am very surprised by your speech because i have the impression that we have not understood what this 'carbon market' was. we are told that if we intervene in the carbon market, it will be arbitrary. but this carbon market is, from the outset, arbitrary. it's not a market that exists in the real world and needs to be regulated, it's a market that was created to serve the interests of climate policy. so i would like to know if you understood from the beginning what this climate policy was, what this carbon market was and the fact that when it does not work, it is because the regulations that frame it are not sufficient.
mr president, commissioner, is the emissions trading system the best system? does it work extraordinarily well? the answer is clearly no! but when i hear that the current criticism of the carbon market must call into question the very existence of the market, i say that there is an astonishing alliance here on the destruction and killing of european climate policy. when i hear my colleagues from the epp group claiming to defend the economy, claiming to defend the citizens, you are defending mr mittal! has mr mittal, with his 1.8 billion euro of co2 allowance cash, invested in carbon and energy-soundness in his industry? by defending groups, by defending certain actors in yesterday's economy, you are preventing the emergence of an economy which will indeed create jobs, which will indeed serve citizens and which will not only be innovative, competitive and enable us to save the climate. (the president agreed to answer two 'blue card' questions) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". as for the first question, personally, when the climate negotiations began, i was more in favour of a taxation system. europe has lost on this issue. but what i know today is that if we lose in the carbon market, there will be no alternative instrument. the reason why the carbon market today does not provide incentives for transformation and carbon-neutral is that the price is too low and the incentive needs to be reinforced, in particular by obtaining auction revenues to finance the energy transition. it may not be the best system, but it is the only one that exists today, and that is why it needs to be improved. as for mr szymański's question, if you are professing today with mr mittal, and a number of big players, that the carbon market must be killed, it is that, in fact, you want to prevent the structure that allows innovation in the carbon market, that allows sobriety and that allows investment. by killing the carbon market, you also kill all the ulcos projects that were able to support the transformation and sustainability of the steel industry in europe.
mr president, there are those in this house who are defending the climate, and then there are the others. i don't accept that shortcut. today our commission, so liberal, is being interventionist. it's not the spirit of 2008 either. the price of carbon has fallen, partly because of the economic recession affecting our european industries, but also because of the efforts already made, since we are confident of meeting the emission reduction targets set for 2020. commissioner, you are interfering with a market system which was not designed for this. the postponement of quotas, which you are so keen to see artificially raised the price of co2, is only a short-term measure, which is detrimental to economic activity. but as you know, there is no reindustrialisation policy without an energy policy. on the one hand, there are the energy suppliers, who have an interest in seeing the cost of energy rise, and it is them that the commission is protecting. and then there are those who are the customers of these suppliers, our industries, our smes, who are already suffering so much. commissioner, you do not have the same energy to revive energy efficiency. is this the way to make europe love when one factory closes after another? i do not accept this technocratic europe, which is disconnected from the realities on the ground. i do not accept this europe which wants to increase energy prices arbitrarily in times of crisis. i do not accept a europe which undermines the confidence of external markets because it changes the rules of the game along the way. who will have the courage to tell our fellow citizens that europe wants to raise the price of energy? that's why i don't accept backloading.
member of the commission. − mr president, can i first say to ms sartori who, like a number of others, was concerned about the increase in electricity prices: i think it is very important here to put things in proportion. if you vote ‘yes’ to this, then the commission’s impact assessment, the big operators in this market, and those who on a daily basis analyse the implications of what we do – such as point carbon and bloomberg energy finance – all these specialists estimate that the maximum impact on the cost of co2 per tonne would be a return to the prices of last september, october and november. that is what we are talking about, and that is why i say let us put things into proportion. ms korhola and ms jordan and a number of others have said we should go for structural changes. ms jordan said we should devote our time to structural changes. i very much agree with this, but i just think that we have to see it like this: it is as if there is a patient who needs long-term matters to be tended to, but you firstly need to take care of more pressing matters. you need to do the first things first – and that is what backloading is trying to do. we will come back to these other things, but we need to do the first things first. mr szymański mentioned energy-intensive sectors, such as cement, steel and chemicals. i should just like to remind you all that they get most of their allowances for free. if they are very technologically advanced, they will indeed get all of their allowances for free. i should just like to remind you how they were identified: on the basis of a carbon price that was seven times what it is today. it is based on a eur 30 carbon price. mr ferreira mentioned that we should also have a regulatory approach. yes, of course. this is not the only instrument, but it is the key instrument. i happen to think that this is why it was no coincidence that this parliament, when adopting regulatory measures like the energy efficiency directive, asked the commission to look at short-term implications for emissions trading. this was because you wanted us to avoid contradictory policies. i thought that this was wise at that time. i still believe that it was a sensible thing that you asked for. i think that almost any economist would say that it would be a failure of the market if the cost of emitting co2 or the cost of polluting with co2 were as low as it is now. it was mr gierek who asked why they were doing this and who has been discussing it. well, we have been asked to do it by you yourselves – the european parliament. however, it was also discussed at an informal environmental council last year in april, so of course we also had the backing of member states to come forward and address this. to ms kolarska-bobińska who asked whether we could be sure that this would be done just once, i think that i have already addressed that matter in my first speech. of course, if this is part of the legislative measure we are taking, this is a guarantee. it could never be changed unless we came back to it. however, i have been very clear on this matter, including to the different groups. this is an extraordinary thing and not something that the commission takes lightly, so i see it very much as something we do once only, as i stated in my first comment. i would just like to say one thing: when you listen to this debate, you would think that we are already discussing the structural measures. however, i should like to remind you that all allowances stay in the system. it is not about removing allowances; that is for another discussion. this is only about when to auction allowances and in what quantities. however, we are trying to stop short-term overflowing in a market which is already overflowing and over-supplied. so that is basically what it is about. my final point: holger krahmer said that the rest of the world is not following us. well, that is not actually true when it comes to emissions trading. here, the rest of the world – korea, china and australia, to mention but a few – is actually starting to follow the european union’s example. i think it is quite interesting for this debate to note that, last week, china announced that it would come up with a proposal next month for a nationwide emissions trading scheme. would it not look just a bit foolish if europe did not get it right with its own emissions trading scheme when we have actually now managed to get some of our very big competitors to adopt or start adopting a market-based system? so this is also a test. the world is watching what we are doing; this is actually one of the areas where we are leading the world. mr president, my very last comment is that i understand that for those of you who think that we do not have a climate problem or who have always been against the market-based system, of course it makes sense to vote ‘no’ tomorrow. however, all of us who ultimately want this system, with its inherent challenges and the market-based principle guiding it, must be careful to get it right tomorrow. it is very interesting to discuss structural measures, but that takes time. europe needs innovation now. our competitors are moving, and they are moving fast. the call that we get from investors is this: please ensure that we get a stronger price signal for the shorter term, and then we would be ready to invest. i do not think europe can afford to reject this. i still very much hope that this parliament will deliver on a process that they themselves initiated in recent months.
in writing. the community's emissions trading scheme (ets) was intended to meet the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but the market is suffering from a surplus of allowances. by 2020, if nothing is done, the surplus could be 1.42 billion allowances. the price of carbon would then remain low and volatile, with no deterrent for industry. the european commission's backloading proposal, echoed in the matthias groote report, would reduce the quantity of quotas by 900 million by 2019. it is a good measure to clean up the carbon market, which has so far functioned in a biased way: as a system of subsidies for polluters. climate change is a global issue. the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased by 31% since 1750. the current rate of increase is unprecedented in 20,000 years. we have now entered a new geological era called the anthropocene. it is the tipping point when human activity becomes the determining factor in the evolution of the earth system. the time is critical and european leaders have clearly not yet fully grasped this.
in writing. i support the rejection of the european commission's proposal on carbon trading and its withdrawal because i oppose any intervention by the european commission in the current context. the commission is not satisfied with the low price of carbon because it has not foreseen the crisis and the slowdown in industrial activity. however, it is this same slowdown that is preventing us from intervening. we must not increase the pressure on european companies, because european jobs depend on it. changing the rules of a european system of polluting duties along the way is the best way to continue the relocation. the eu's most ambitious climate policy in the world must not take precedence over employment in europe. if the demand for polluting rights decreases in a period of economic downturn, it is not the responsibility of dg climate change to propose an intervention in the system in place. the commission could propose the creation of an independent european authority to regulate the carbon emissions system.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme is a very bad answer to a real problem. global warming is one of the major problems facing all of humanity. to solve it, therefore, requires drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in the areas of transport, but also in agriculture, heating, waste treatment and industrial production. this implies coordinated, decentralized, planned and strong actions linking industry, research, policy makers but also consumers. this would also mean the creation of a large european public service for energy and waste treatment, instead of sterile competition between the major national energy groups and between the different energy sources. the idea of solving the problem of greenhouse gas emissions by the market is dogmatic and vicious. dogmatic, because the market solves nothing. it is, on the contrary, the play of all speculation and all lobbying. the major international road hauliers are thus systematically favoured, while air transport is hampered. and yet, in 30 years, greenhouse gas emissions per passenger have been reduced by 50 percent. vicarious because this market of quotas will always allow the richest to continue to pollute with impunity while the poorest are rationed energy. the solution is not in a quota market, nor in the market at all, but in research and regulations which will involve everyone according to their responsibilities, including goods from countries which do not comply with any environmental rules.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the efforts made by european fishermen over many years to conserve mackerel can be described as exemplary. so much so that, as early as 2006, it was noted that mackerel stocks were returning to historically high levels. unfortunately, the fruits of these efforts have not benefited those who have consented to them. because as soon as the biomass of this species started to rise, we saw a real rush of icelandic and faroese fishermen on mackerel. the ecological consequences on biomass, as well as the reduction in european quotas, have not been long in coming and the economic situation of the union's fishermen is now in jeopardy. the whole european pelagic sector is concerned. in france, no less than 1 200 vessels are targeting or by-catching mackerel. probably as much in ireland and the uk. many of them were small-scale fishermen. reducing by-catch quotas will inevitably impact all their catches with an imminent landing obligation for discards which will make the situation extremely tense. if iceland and the faroe islands continue to ignore the state of biomass, the union fishermen will become the adjustment variable for the achievement of the mdg to which they alone will contribute. it is no longer a question of following the situation closely, madam commissioner, or simply communicating. it is urgent that the european institutions play their role as regulators and that these behaviours, which are irresponsible from an ecological and economic point of view, be punished. firstly, can we not consider including these states on the list of those that do not respect sustainable fishing? secondly, since we have special fishing agreements with these players, is there not a reason to question them in a global way?
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i want to express my great disappointment in several respects on the issue of the distribution of mackerel quotas between coastal states. this conflict between the european union, iceland and the faroe islands undermines a long-standing agreement between states with common interests that enabled the sustainable management of resources. the unilateral and irresponsible increase in quotas by the faroe islands and iceland is leading to unsustainable exploitation of mackerel in the area. the unrealistic mackerel quotas required by iceland and the faroe islands are excessively high in comparison with their predecessors. as our colleague mr sánchez presedo has just said, the faroe islands have increased their quota fivefold between 2009 and 2012, and iceland has increased its quota from 2006 by 23 times. it's completely unreasonable and unjustified. we must safeguard the environmental, economic and commercial interests of all the actors involved. it is essential that negotiations resume. it is the sustainable development of our oceans that is at stake. within the european union, professionals accept strict rules and quotas. the european union is doing its utmost to preserve fisheries resources in these waters. but what is the union doing in the context of shared stocks with other countries? the 2012 regulation on unsustainable fisheries allows for the imposition of sanctions on states that do not cooperate in the management of a common stock and apply unsustainable management measures. the regulation provides for restrictions on imports of fish. what is the commission waiting for before adopting sanctions? this will certainly bring about a return to reason in iceland and the faroe islands. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training.
mr president, aerospace is one of the last industries where the union is still on a par with the united states and asia. this is the result of the historical involvement and investment of public authorities in member states such as germany, spain and france. without this intervention, the airbus a320, the cfm 56 jet or ariane would never have been born. without this intervention, tens of thousands of skilled jobs would have disappeared. today the member states, and particularly france, are sending very negative signals. eads believes that the withdrawal of france and spain will give 70% of the capital to private shareholders and remove almost all possibility of public intervention in strategic choices. by selling 3% of safran's shares, france loses the blocking minority over this group. the italian engine manufacturer avio, which is involved in the engine development of ariane, has just been sold to the american general electric. europe is selling off its aircraft industry to pay off its bank debt, even though the order books are full for ten years. it is urgent that our parliament solemnly calls on the member states and the commission to stop this selling of an industry vital to europe's future.
mr president, last thursday arcelor mittal announced that the blast furnaces in florange had been shut down for good. yesterday in belgium, today in luxembourg, today in france, lakshmi mittal is pursuing its strategy of liquidating the european steel industry. this new social drama calls for a new reaction, because arcelor mittal has already lost more than 36 000 jobs in europe in five years. that's a decline in our global output compared to india and china. reacting to reject dependence on imports. refusing a triple cost social, economic and environmental. refuse to be complicit in a human and industrial tragedy in europe. the profitability of the florange site has been demonstrated. mittal refused to give it up. he gave up a co2 capture project backed by europe. it is now clear that arcelor mittal is abusing a dominant position within the meaning of article 102 of the eu treaty to the detriment of european industry. i call on our parliament, the member states and the commission to stand united. i call on the commission to exercise its implementing powers by checking the abuse of a dominant position by the arcelor mittal group, to take all measures to preserve the production facility in florange and, in particular, to demand the rapid withdrawal of the lis project for lorraine.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank the committee on development and in particular the rapporteur mr svensson for this report. my colleague commissioner de gucht regrets not being here this evening to discuss with you the trade, growth and development communication but he is firmly committed to deliver on a number of its policy proposals within the present commission mandate. particular attention is being given this year to delivering a multilateral trade facilitation deal and a proposal for a comprehensive eu initiative on responsible mineral sourcing – one of the specific requests of the report. i would like to highlight issues raised in the report where i think we could certainly agree. number one: the positive contribution of trade and investment to growth and development. as the communication says, no country has ever achieved long-term growth without openness to trade and appropriate flanking policies and government systems. this is a clear example of policy coherence for development, which we agree is very important. number two: trade policy involves very many stakeholders. what the eu does with trade agreements is create a long-term and predictable legal framework, allowing businesses on all sides to work together in a sustainable manner. these agreements are very powerful tools and raise many expectations. as such, this is very positive, though of course a trade agreement alone cannot solve all the issues considered important in foreign relations. it does, however, create institutions to monitor implementation and recalibrate the framework where necessary. and every stakeholder has a role to play – from governance to customs officials, businesses, consumers and interested citizens. ms morvai raised the issue of food solidarity. this will be discussed in the context of the wto ministerial conference in bali at the end of this year. the commission is part of those talks. we consider, however, that the commission has fared much better than occasionally set out in the report. again, number one: eu trade policy does have clear development goals. our trade offer is tailored to the specificities of the countries concerned. the trade agreement with korea is one model. the one with central america does not have the same breadth and depth, though it is ambitious and bi-regional. under this mandate the commission has reviewed the gsp scheme to reflect the fact that the world has changed since the seventies, when we first granted unilateral tariff preferences. and we wished to focus the scheme on those countries that need most attention in development terms. number two: this is equally true of the much-maligned economic partnership agreements. our offer is generous and flexible and treats acp partners as economies that have the wherewithal to succeed. we have made much progress in regional negotiations under this mandate and still have the ambition to conclude the most advanced negotiations before our time is up as a commission. as commissioner responsible for the digital economy, i can assure you that the african continent has harnessed mobile communication technology in a way that brings tangible and innovative benefits to people from all walks of life. this is the africa we have in mind when we think epas. and third: i am concluding with human rights, where i would like to remind you that the eu’s trade policy is conducted in full respect of the principles and objectives of the eu’s external action.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my colleague mr svensson for his good cooperation. the reconciliation of the views of our two committees has been our common objective throughout our parliamentary work and i think we have done quite well in that. i also want to thank my colleagues on the committee on international trade, in particular the fictitious rapporteurs. in this committee we have traditionally considered that european trade policy has a development component. in addition to the traditional tools of the european union, such as the system of generalised preferences or asymmetric trade agreements, i wanted our committee to come up with innovative proposals, which take account of the new needs of our partners. especially about funding. why would you do that? because in this time of crisis, no budget is immune from severe cuts and in most cases the development line is among the victims. to maintain our position as the world's leading donor, we need to experiment with new forms of financial partnerships, such as triangular (north-south-south) partnerships, to give priority to non-financial solutions, such as technical assistance to trade, and to better manage the funds available to ensure their effectiveness. for example, last week i had the opportunity to hear a southern economist in a meeting who said very accurately: 'money is available, but we are not using it properly', before calling on us to change our criteria and methods. that is one of the first points in my report. the beneficiary countries themselves must formulate their needs and plan to include trade policy elements in their development strategies. the european union must also offer support at the appropriate level, either multilaterally (mainly at the wto) or regionally. at the multilateral level, there are two proposals i would like to stress. the first is aid for wto membership for the least developed countries. how can they benefit from global trade if they are kept out of it? this aid is not very costly for the european union, because it is technical aid. let me explain: it does not need to recruit staff, since it already has experts from the directorates-general of the european commission and the eeas. and, above all, her expertise in negotiations is such that she will probably make rapid progress. the second, and this is also where the european union must exert all its influence in the wto to achieve this, is the conclusion of the negotiations on the customs facilitation agreement and its rapid implementation. the bali conference at the end of this year could be a good opportunity, and i would like the delegation of european parliamentarians taking part to press for it. at the regional level, the central point of my proposals is the promotion of trade integration. an example of what the european union should undertake to bring its policy to fruition is the paneuromed convention on rules of origin. as rapporteur for my group on this text, i am continuing to monitor regularly the progress of its implementation. and i regret that many partner countries have not ratified it and that it is therefore still not applicable to the whole area. the commission and the eu delegations should work together with partners to improve and extend its implementation to give it its full effectiveness. as we prepare our position for the redefinition of the post-2015 millennium development goals, "working together" should be a watchword!
mr president, i would like to thank the commission, which took the initiative in drawing up this text, and the council, but also, and especially, the team of parliament's rapporteurs. what othmar karas and the whole team have just demonstrated is that this parliament is respected when it works. and when he works as hard and as well, it's worth pointing out. i'm saying this especially since i wasn't part of that team, so i'm free of any conflict of interest. i would like to mention two points - there are many - on which parliament has really added a very specific value. on the one hand, it is a matter of defending credit to smes, because in the interests of regulation, we must not forget that the main problem facing europe today is the lack of investment and the lack of growth in many member states. on the other hand, there are the transparency obligations, which in my view are perhaps one of the seemingly most trivial points in this text, although they can change a great deal, not only in relation to companies in the financial sector, but also, for example, for all the third world countries which suffered from an opacity that allowed a lot of traffic. a word, commissioner, about the future. hold on to it! keep going, keep going! the commission shall have the right of initiative. the question of the resolution is in your hands. put the council on its toes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you very much to everyone and all the administrative teams who worked on this case.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of european legislation on capital requirements, the european union has taken the lead in adopting the prudential rules applicable to banks. the basel iii agreements will finally become a reality in europe, following a negotiation process that has lasted almost 20 months since the commission published its proposal on 20 july 2011. on this issue, as on all other financial regulation issues, the european parliament has played its full role as co-legislator, whereas the member states have long preferred to defend positions which were at odds with the criteria adopted for own funds, according to their own banking model. this text is an essential step towards the establishment of a more solid financial system in the service of a real economy. but above all, the european parliament has successfully defended the adoption of binding rules to limit the bonuses of managers and traders, by setting as a principle that the variable part of their remuneration may not exceed fixed remuneration in the future. on this point i would like to thank the french government, which in the council defended the european parliament's position against the british government, just as it anticipated the transposition of a number of rules on transparency. but, commissioner, i want to draw your attention to one essential aspect of the way forward on this matter when the european commission opens negotiations with the united states, because if you do not get reciprocity on this matter, i believe that the agreement that...
prime minister of finland. − mr president, as you have already mentioned, we received shocking news last night of what seems to be a bomb attack against civilians in boston. a number of people are dead and over a hundred injured. our thoughts are with the victims and with their families. we do not yet have a full picture of what happened and should wait to hear what the american authorities find out, but i will say this: no matter what proves to be the cause of these explosions, we europeans will stand by our american friends. i would like to thank you, mr president, for your invitation to address the european parliament today. this is a very special honour for me personally, because i have been active in european affairs all my adult life. thanks to european integration, i belong to a generation which has had more opportunities than the generations before. for example, i had the opportunity to complete part of my studies at the university of leicester in the uk. as an erasmus student i spent a year there studying european affairs. this experience opened my eyes to the importance of european integration. i had my erasmus year in a period of great optimism. finland had joined the european union. the implementation of the economic and monetary union was being accelerated. preparations for the next enlargement – which united europe – were gathering pace. mr president, today we live in more difficult and challenging times. we are in the middle of an important debate about europe’s future. i am therefore grateful for this opportunity to exchange views with parliament. i came here not only to speak, but also to listen. the debate on european integration is being overshadowed by the economic crisis. people worry about their jobs, their pensions, their children’s future. with far too many young people unemployed, it is easy to see why they are worried and even angry. the public mood in many parts of europe is pessimistic. let us be frank about it – personally, i fully understand this mood, but at the same time it worries me very deeply. we have all been forced to make very difficult choices during the financial crisis. consequently, nationalism and populism are on the move. these painful decisions have undermined people’s trust in the european project. my fear is that we will turn inward when we should open up, and that we will doubt each other’s motives when we should come together; that we will allow radical voices to lead the european debate when we should present a credible, pragmatic way forward. we should not let pressing economic and social challenges poison the whole idea of european integration, and we should not let the european debate be dominated by the far ends of the spectrum. some will blame the eu for all our troubles. others will say – often from outside europe – that we must create a fully-fledged united states of europe here and now, without raising the issue of democratic legitimacy. i also do not understand those who stir up divisions between the south and the north. divided we are weaker, because we lose our common-value base and our ability to build europe together. we simply cannot afford that. we have difficult decisions at hand but we must stay united. mr president, honourable members, it is our duty as political leaders to take the stage and present credible present solutions to europe’s political and economic challenges. we must explain to people why deeper pragmatic integration is the right way forward for europe. to regain people’s trust in the european project, we must make sure europeans find integration to be just and fair. this is no easy task. but we can go a long way if we work on european integration that benefits everyone. in other words, we need fair integration. i understand that people in different member states and in different personal situations may not find their life particularly fair right now. but can europe be more fair in the future? i think it can. to me, fair integration means that the european union continues to be founded on common values and rules that are truly respected by all and at all times. fair integration means that, while member states engage in ever-closer integration, they keep their own house in order. we should be able to rely on each other. but we cannot outsource all responsibility to the others. and most importantly, fair integration means that the european union functions in ways people can support and feel their own. it is a question of democratic legitimacy and accountability and ownership. you can see, ladies and gentlemen, that i am not talking about anything earth-shattering. all i am asking is that we take decisions on the basis of our common rules and then live by them, and that we seek common solutions where such are needed and do our homework so that each member state can trust the others. let me be clear: we need more europe and we need more national responsibility. we cannot have one without the other. mr. president, let me now explain how i see fair integration in practice. i will raise three issues and look at them from the point of view of fair integration. first, we must respect our common european values and the rules we have adopted together. the european union is so much more than a free trade area – it is a community of shared values. we must defend european values also when they are challenged from within. failing to do so will undermine the union’s credibility – not only in the eyes of the world, but also in the eyes of our own people and citizens. if we overlook corruption and breaches of the rule of law, or if we fail to curb tax evasion and tax havens, we undermine our own efforts to build a better europe. as a union of values, we have decided that integration is based on democracy. we have decided to replace the use of force by the use of law. we all know democracy starts to crumble if we break our common rules. in the european context we must respect the community method. the paradox of today’s debate is that strong rules and strong european institutions are sometimes seen as a threat to member states. in fact the opposite is true: the rule of law and common institutions protect member states, especially the smaller ones. second, we need to strike the right balance between solidarity and responsibility. the european union is a community based on solidarity. solidarity is part of its very essence. finland wants to play its own part. our share of the eu budget will increase, and we accept that as an element of european solidarity. finland is also shouldering its responsibility to assist countries in need of financial assistance. we do this through the crisis management instruments and direct loans. but solidarity must go hand in hand with the member state’s own responsibility. we all have to do our own homework. we all have to take difficult political decisions when they are due. europe should help when help is needed. but each member state has to bear the ultimate responsibility for keeping its own finances in order. those who decide about expenditure must collect the revenues. national governments and parliaments are ultimately responsible for national reforms. the third point is that to make europe stronger, we need deeper integration. my government will support deeper integration as long as it is fair to all member states and benefits the union and the whole of europe as an entity. our most pressing challenge is to create new jobs. too many europeans – especially young people – are without work today. unemployment is a problem for the whole of society, but first and foremost it hits those individuals who are struggling to make ends meet. last week i visited lisbon, where i had the opportunity to talk with university students. i was impressed by their enormous talent and energy. but the discussion revealed how worried they were about the future. i know how they feel. i remember finland’s own financial crisis all too well. in the early 1990s, almost 20% of finns were jobless. finland was on the brink of insolvency. over 10% of our gdp was shaved off in just a few years. at the time, i was a university student myself. i remember thinking we would never get a job or own a home. we did not want to graduate, because it was safer to stay in the university. when i now think back to those bleak years, even the images in my mind are black and white. finland managed to get through the crisis, but in many ways, we are still paying the social price for it. so, ladies and gentlemen let us make jobs our top european priority. we all know there is no shortcut to creating new jobs in a sustainable manner. if there was, surely we would have taken it already. i fully support the proposal to allocate eur six billion from the eu budget to fighting youth unemployment, and i am pleased the european council endorsed the youth guarantee concept. it is essential we keep all our young people on board. what matters the most is our ability to meet global competition. europe must become more competitive so that businesses continue to make new investments and create new jobs here. europe has to regain the upper hand in new technologies and industries. the key to europe’s economic future lies with reform and openness. we have to work with the markets, not against them. mr president, we have taken impressive steps to overhaul the eu’s economic governance. i would like to thank this house for the important role it has played in passing critical legislation, such as the six pack and the two pack. the implementation of the rules will require sometimes difficult and painful reforms nationally. structural reforms will not bear fruit overnight, but reforms are the most effective and most sustainable economic stimulus in the long run. if we all play by the new rules, our economies will get stronger. this is not just economic theory, it is plain common sense. arvoisa puhemies, sisämarkkinat ja sisäisen vapaakaupan edistäminen ovat euroopan integraation ruisleipä. tässä olemme päässeet pitkälle, mutta emme riittävän pitkälle. tavarat liikkuvat euroopassa hyvin, mutta palvelut eivät. siksi palveludirektiivin toimeenpanoa on välttämätöntä tehostaa. digitaaliset sisämarkkinat tarjoavat valtavan mahdollisuuden luoda uutta työtä ja kasvua. komissio arvioi, että eu:n talous kasvaisi tällä toimenpiteellä 500 miljardilla eurolla vuoteen 2020 mennessä. olisi siis sulaa hulluutta jättää potentiaali käyttämättä. sähköinen kauppa ja digitaaliset sisällöt tarvitsevat kiireesti toimivat sisämarkkinat. niiden rakentaminen on jo alkanut – osin euroopan parlamentin ansiosta – mutta työ etenee liian hitaasti. tarvitsemme uutta, älykästä sääntelyä, joka raivaa kaupan esteitä ja tukee digitaalisen talouden dynaamisuutta. monsieur le président, nous avons le devoir de libérer le potentiel énorme de notre commerce extérieur pour créer des emplois. la commission européenne a estimé que la réalisation d'un plan ambitieux de libre-échange créera deux millions d'emplois en europe. nous avons ouvert le marché et donné aux entreprises européennes les opportunités dont elles ont besoin. européerna har både den skicklighet och den kreativitet som krävs för att nå framgång på den globala marknaden. vi måste tro på oss själva. om vi tyr oss till protektionism och bygger hinder, isolerar vi oss bara från pulsen och händelserna inom världsekonomin. inledandet av frihandels- och investeringsförhandlingar med förenta staterna och japan är de bästa nyheterna på länge. låt oss hålla farten uppe och inte fastna i detaljer. it is essential that we strengthen economic and monetary union. our immediate priority is to finalise banking union. to me, banking union is a good example of fair integration. it is about curbing reckless risk-taking and protecting taxpayers from having to rescue oversized and under-capitalised banks. i have three final points on how to make europe fit for the future. first, we need a truly integrated european energy market. energy is the lifeblood of the economy. global competition for energy is getting fiercer. europe needs to get its act together and take the internal energy market seriously. we also need to move away from subsidies that distort the market. we need more investment in energy infrastructure. to drive investment in low-emission alternatives, we need to restore the effect of the emissions trading system, which you were deliberating yesterday evening. second, we need concrete steps in european security and defence policy. europe has to take more responsibility for its security, which means we must learn to work more closely together. we need closer cooperation to meet security challenges, to overcome the financial limits and to provide our security and defence industry with a wider home market to grow. i am looking forward to our december discussions in the european council. third, i would just say that we must keep enlargement on our agenda. the european union must remain open to deserving candidates. the next european elections will be held in a year’s time. this election is of exceptional importance. it will be a test of the democratic legitimacy of the european union. its outcome will show the future direction of our common european project. european integration has never been challenged as it is today. we have a lot to defend and we should do this with pride. european integration has proved that it can deliver peace, stability and well-being to european citizens on a scale never seen before in this continent. it will continue to do so. the european union will emerge from the crisis stronger. it will take some time and the road ahead will not be easy. we must focus on energy and what unites us, not on what separates us. we must build mutual trust, because together we are stronger than any of us would be alone. we must focus on reinforcing the fairness of european integration. fair integration is the best way to build a strong europe and to regain people’s trust in the european project. (applause)
president of the commission. − mr president, mr prime minister, honourable members. before i begin, i should like to express, on behalf of the commission, our deep sympathy with the victims and with the families of those killed and injured in the violent attacks in boston yesterday. we condemn all forms of violence, and we stand in solidarity with our american friends on this sad day. it is a pleasure for me to say some words here today, when the prime minister of finland, mr katainen, is debating the future direction of the european union with the european parliament. i want to start by thanking the finnish prime minister for his very important, personal contribution to the european project. jyrki katainen has shown a strong commitment to strengthening democracy, transparency and dialogue in the european union. in short, the finnish prime minister and the country he represents stand for a european union which is, first and foremost, a community of values. this brings me to the first point which i wanted to make this morning, which is that finland embodies the most fundamental concept at the heart of our union – the rule of law and the principle of equal rights. no matter what their size, economic weight, history or culture, our union is a union of member states joined together by common values and shared interests. it is a union that shows equal respect for rights and hears the voice of each and every member state. in this environment, finland has demonstrated that it is not size alone which moves the european debate forward but the strength of your ideas and the commitment and determination to see these ideas through. on issues ranging from enlargement to the single market or the digital agenda, from the union’s international trade relations to justice and home affairs, finland is a leading light in moving and shaping european policy. let me make a specific point on the rule of law and fairness. the prime minister rightly places great importance on these issues. so does the commission, especially at a time when reform is placing a burden on our societies. this is why we are pushing forward with our proposals to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance, which cost europe around eur 1 trillion per year in lost tax revenues. in other words, europe is losing tax revenues every year which amount to one full multiannual financial framework. this is money that we can ill afford and which increases the burden on the average, honest taxpayer. it is time to turn good intentions into action. that is why i call on the member states to reach a swift agreement on the commission’s proposals on savings tax and for a strong mandate to negotiate agreements with switzerland and other neighbours, as well as for a rapid reaction mechanism to tackle vat fraud. in the coming weeks i will be urging the member states to jointly commit to common actions and an agreed timeline to implement the recommendations on tax havens and aggressive tax planning which the commission made last december. i thank finland for its support on this issue, including its welcome initiative to host a joint seminar with the commission at the end of this month. in a recent speech on competitiveness which i made in dublin, i underlined the position of finland as the leading member state in the world economic forum global competitive index, in which finland ranked third in the world. across europe, as we seek to exit the current crisis and bolster europe’s long-term competitiveness, it is important that we look at finland and take on board the lessons from the finnish experience. these are long, hard lessons. following its domestic banking crisis in the 1990s, finland undertook a series of deep, difficult structural reforms in order to reshape its economy, regain international competitiveness and retain the principal elements of its social market economy. this process is one which many other member states are now following and which finland has been supporting by showing solidarity with these countries. finland is also playing an active role in the shaping of the banking union. events in cyprus show just how important this work is and how it is even more urgent than ever. i am pleased that, following the intensive work in the trialogues, there is now a final agreement on the single supervisory mechanism. the commission will bring forward proposals for a single resolution mechanism in june. the most important lesson in all of this is that it should not be seen as a one-off exercise: it is a day-to-day exercise. remaining competitive requires constant work, as finland has recognised and is currently demonstrating through its ongoing efforts. finland is engaged in a dialogue with its european partners, setting out its ideas and discussing its concerns as an active, engaged and thoughtful member of our union. i would like to thank the prime minister for his role in shaping this approach and for his very close cooperation and friendship. i would like to thank finland for its commitment to our union. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of parliament, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, i also agree with the statements made by my predecessors on the boston bombing and i believe that we in the epp group have the will and the strength to fight this terrorism. as you said, we do not yet know where it comes from, but it does not stop, wherever it comes from, it is not normal that in a society where freedom reigns, people who have done nothing wrong, who are involved in sports, are killed simply because they want to express themselves freely through sport. i think that is unacceptable and that we must fight this terrorism very firmly. mr president, i have listened to you very carefully and, as you will not be surprised to learn, i agree with you on many points. but i would like to share some observations with you and ask you some questions. first of all, the direction of europe. europe is much more than a project - you said it - of economic integration. europe is also, above all, about shared values. you're right to call him back. today, without europe, it would surely be even worse. i've said it many times. just take a look at iceland, which went bankrupt. i do not deny the difficulties experienced in greece, spain and ireland. but where would these countries be without europe? i think, like you, that we must fight extremism and that the best way to do this is to speak the truth, to be responsible but also to show solidarity. we must also move towards greater european integration - we must not be afraid to say so in a difficult time of crisis when everyone wants to turn in on themselves - starting also with social and fiscal harmonization. it's not a bad word. but not towards a standardization which would be more of a disadvantage than an advantage. harmonizing is also about sharing our strengths. the weekly working time, the weeks of leave, the retirement age, social expenditure, all have to be worked out on the same basis. the single market has brought about a lot of progress, but because of these persistent national disparities, there have been a lot of negative effects. i know what i am talking about, as a businessman, with simply, on the other side of the rhine, the distortion of competition that we can call one way or another. of 60 million turnover in my company, there would be 1.2 million difference in charges if my slaughterhouse was in kehl. i say it every day so we know it. so we need tax and social harmonization, otherwise it is not possible, and companies will be forced to move from where it is more expensive or they will close down. some of our citizens have lost their jobs, some businesses have disappeared. the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that today it is the member states, each in its own corner, which are the only ones competent to deal with these problems. so we need more europe and - i agree with you, mr prime minister - a fair europe. there is unemployment in europe but there are also jobs. the problem is, they're not necessarily in the same place. why not consider european solutions to unemployment? today, this is not a european competence. why not use the big picture that europe offers? in the field of education, training, research, or cohesion policy, we have the levers to move the mobility of workers forward. if we do not have european research, mr josé manuel, there is no point in distributing aid country by country on a research programme which is not european. i think it takes courage to go in that direction too. in order to improve the balance between workers and the labour market and to combat youth unemployment, we have supported the youth guarantee and are pleased that your government has joined it. but there is more to it. mr president, the majority of this parliament, like you, is in favour of a strong europe with strong states and a strong economy. to do that, all our rules must be enforced. we need more transparency, budgets must be balanced and deficits must be reduced because we can no longer live beyond our means. we must also tell the truth about this. we will thus restore the confidence needed for investment, but will this be enough? in some countries - hardest hit by the crisis - interest rates are such that a businessman, even if he has the best project, cannot finance it. i was in greece where a businessman, who had a project, said to me, "president, should i invest with an interest rate between 10 and 12 percent? " i said, "no, you can't invest in an economic portfolio at this rate of interest". that means that in this country we cannot create jobs. that is the real problem we have to fight. i wonder why, mr prime minister, if we are to overcome unemployment and especially youth unemployment, we must find something. i know this is probably going to shock some of you, but is it not time to think about responsible mutualisation of part of the public debt in europe so that the interest rates for investors are the same across the countries? i'm not talking about standardization. so i ask you, mr. prime minister, if you have another remedy, we're taking it! it would be possible to reduce the cost of debt, to lower interest rates for entrepreneurs who create jobs and to channel some of our resources to investment. of course, such partial mutualisation must be accompanied by better governance, an awareness of the constraints of mutual guarantee to avoid disguised subsidies or the fact that some states have to pay for others. each state must ensure its solvency. this implies a real convergence of europe. we also need more coherence and therefore more integration. your speech, mr prime minister, is about the future of europe. i will end by saying a few words, but i am passionate about it because i am looking for jobs, mr president, and you know that i do not often exceed my speaking time. our history has proved it. the more we work together, the more integrated we are and the better our continent is doing and the more europe protects us!
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will now take up where guy verhofstadt left off. mr. prime minister, you must have used the word "rules" 3,700 times. i understand you like the rules. the basis of democracy is rules. but in a community, there is a rule that is sometimes more important than the accounting rule, it is called the rule of solidarity. moreover, your country - finland - is a country with a social cohesion, a solidarity cohesion that is very impressive. only, when you, you arrive in the european space, you have a slightly cold, northern understanding. you're going to tell me that's normal since you're from finland. that is true, but the consequence is that sometimes you do not really understand what is happening in europe. i feel like you're talking like the nokia representative here explaining the problems. yes, i know you have a nokia, but what else can you have? you're a good finn. that's not the problem. i mean that today you will not have a europe of solidarity if you do not have a real european budget. you have spoken of european responsibility, of integration and of national responsibility, and you are right, but in a time of crisis, if this collective responsibility is not a responsibility which expresses the political capacity of the european area through a european budget, you will not succeed! we shall not succeed if we do not succeed tomorrow in making this european budget no longer simply a budget of national contributions but a budget in which we are actually making progress with our own resources. i'll tell you something very simple: "do you know what margaret thatcher's greatest victory was? it's because she had 27 children, 27 european governments, all of whom said the same thing: "i want my money back". this is the defeat of europe, what you have also negotiated with finland, with the other countries, as for the european budget, this is the defeat of the european idea, this is the defeat of european solidarity and i hope that our colleagues will refuse to be associated with this process of defeat. why would you do that? because in the current crisis, the budget you are proposing is a 20% cut in the structural funds for greece - ah, that's clever! - 25% for portugal - ah, that's very clever! mr joseph daul, who is a member of the european greens, said just now that if we do not really manage to propose something to reduce the debt burden, you can always say that it is the fault of the greek government, that it is the fault... yes, but at the moment it is the people who are paying the burden of the crisis. and to help them, we need a common debt fund to bring down the debt today. if italy had paid 1% less for its debt, it would have 20 billion. if it paid 2 percent less, it would have $40 billion to revive the economy. european solidarity therefore means having at a certain level a common european debt fund, a redemption fund, call it what you will, to enable these countries to recover. therefore, mr prime minister, if you talk about rules, you must bear in mind that there is a very important rule: to let people go to the wall like this, to leave them in the fragility of the crisis, is to create unbearable political conditions, it is never reason that wins, it is always the irrational of the extremes that will win. this is also your responsibility as prime minister of finland.
in writing. the new challenges arising from the latest developments in the field of network and information security call for the extension of the competences of the european network and information security agency (enisa). in agreement with the european commission's proposal to extend the tasks of enisa, i voted in favour of this report which revises and extends the mandate of the agency. this proposal also updates its competence in the development of network and information security policies, its work as a facilitator of cooperation between member states, and its role in preventing and mitigating network and information security incidents between states. we, the members of the european parliament, were able to impose our views on the council on the question of the seat, with the establishment of an enisa 'antenna' in athens. we have also obtained an obligation on the board to create an executive board in order to increase efficiency and effectiveness.
in writing. i voted in favour of the chichester report which thoroughly revises the provisions governing enisa's powers. created in 2004, the agency is responsible for the network and information security of the european union. initially appointed for a period of four years, she was reappointed for a further seven years. in order to meet current challenges, in particular in terms of cybercrime, the powers of the agency have been strengthened. enisa will now be able to act on its own initiative.
in writing. the european network and information security agency (enisa) was established in 2004 to assist the commission and the member states in developing policies on network and information security. i voted in favour of the directive which aims to extend its powers to deal with new technologies which bring new challenges to network and information security. i also support the new international dimension of enisa, which will now be able to enter into direct contact with third countries and international organisations, for greater speed and efficiency.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the activities of the european agency for the safety of information networks (enisa). in line with the recommendations of the report, i believe it is important to give enisa new powers to meet the challenges arising from recent developments in the field of network and information security. the closer coordination of the agency with the national authorities and europol also seems to me to be an excellent thing. the report also calls for the enhancement of the effectiveness of enisa's governance, which is another priority that i fully support.
in writing. protecting networks and information means protecting our privacy and our everyday convenience. enisa is the agency responsible for protecting these networks. their importance in the provision of essential services, including energy, should be emphasised. but these networks face constantly evolving threats, both in form and in number. the report rightly emphasizes this: it is no longer time to think in terms of reaction, we must move to anticipation. i therefore welcome the fact that this text strengthens and extends the mandate of enisa. it had to be made more modern and, above all, more responsive to the new challenges it was facing.
in writing. cybercrime is a modern scourge, which is a sword of damocles for the industrial sector but also for the privacy of our citizens. in order to continue effectively the indispensable fight against cybercrime, it seems essential to strengthen the role of the european agency for network and information security and to extend its mandate. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to modernise and rationalise the agency.
in writing. on tuesday 16 april, i commented on the report by my colleague, mr giles chichester, on the european union agency for security and networks. i voted in favour of this report. the main issue was the headquarters of the agency, currently in heraklion, crete. arguing that the country's accessibility is poor and that social tensions are high, a number of countries and parliamentarians have been considering moving the agency's headquarters. although i am not a fan of this type of institution, i do not think it would be appropriate to change the seat in the present conditions in greece. it would have been a symbol of the abandonment of the greek people who were sent. my colleague's report calls for the siege in heraklion to be maintained, and for a technical centre in athens to be attached to it, which is, in the final analysis, rather positive.
in writing. i supported in plenary the report by my colleague giles chichester. the report was adopted by 626 votes in favour, 45 against and 16 abstentions. i'm glad you did. the report aimed to review in depth the tasks and competences of the european network and information security agency (enisa). enisa will now have new tasks. in particular, it will assist the european commission and the member states in the development of network and information security policies, and facilitate cooperation between member states - and between them and the european commission - to prevent network and information security incidents. finally, enisa will assist member states, european institutions and bodies in their efforts to collect, analyse and disseminate data on network and information security.
in writing. the new challenges in the field of network and information security made the adoption of this text necessary, and i voted in favour of it. the text will further assist the european commission and the member states in the development of their network and information security policies, in particular by strengthening the link with national data protection and privacy authorities, but also with europol.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal amending the proposal from the european parliament and the council establishing measures relating to the incidental catching of cetaceans in fisheries. it is necessary to clearly identify and control the powers conferred on the european commission in the field of fisheries. for this reason, they should be classified under the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) according to the new hierarchy of standards: either as measures which may be the subject of delegated acts (non-legislative acts of general application supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of the legislative act) or as measures which may be the subject of implementing acts. both types of act are effective tools and can be adapted quickly to new situations. in this context, delegated acts should be aimed at the adaptation of the technical specifications and conditions of use of sound-absorbing devices, while implementing acts will be dedicated to the modalities of the procedure and the format of the reports that member states are required to establish.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon has conferred new delegated and implementing powers on the commission. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which aims to apply these new powers in practice to the accidental catching of cetaceans in fisheries. in this way the commission will be able to ensure the uniform application of the procedural conditions in each member state.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by raül romeva i rueda, which seeks to amend the proposal for a council regulation laying down measures concerning the incidental catching of cetaceans. the purpose of the report is to identify the measures that fall under the scope of delegated acts and those that fall under the scope of implementing acts. i agree with the rapporteur who suggests the use of delegated acts to adapt the conditions and technical specifications for the use of sound suppression devices. i also fully support his desire to adopt stricter conditions for the use of delegated acts by the commission, as i am determined to defend the powers acquired by the european parliament in the fisheries field following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, as it brings about a real simplification of the technocratic procedures in place so far. europe must not be here to add a new layer of constraints to the european fisheries sector, but on the contrary must lighten the bureaucratic burden on it in order to protect and strengthen this sector.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which will allow for better protection of cetaceans. it makes it possible to adjust the legislation on the incidental capture of cetaceans by clarifying the european commission's powers in this area. the commission will thus be able to propose, by 2015, comprehensive legislation aimed at adapting to technical and scientific progress, for example, the noise deterrent devices described in annex 2. this adaptation is essential in view of the constant and worrying decline in the whale population.
in writing. like the majority of my colleagues, i supported the report by my colleague raül romeva i rueda on bycatch in fisheries. it was a one-time vote. the report was adopted by 690 votes to 5, with 10 abstentions. the objective of this report was to align regulation no 812/2004 with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in order to conserve fisheries and fishery resources, the european commission will now be able to adopt delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on the incidental catches of cetaceans was considered at third reading. the final text, which i voted in favour of, has been amended again to allow for a more effective fight against the phenomenon of accidental catching during fishing operations, which represents a huge threat to whales, dolphins and porpoises. several species and many populations will disappear in the next few decades if no action is taken. awareness of this issue and action by the european union were therefore urgent and indispensable.
in writing. i support this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of mauritius. the aim is to agree on the conditions under which european union fishing vessels will be able to fish for tuna in mauritian waters. a protocol is attached to the agreement, setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for in the agreement, which is eur 1 980 000 for the total duration of the six-year protocol. this proposal should strengthen the capacity of the republic of mauritius to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, in particular by improving its monitoring infrastructure and by controlling fishing activities in its exclusive economic zone. this agreement should also lead to an improvement in the fiscal and political stability of the republic of mauritius.
in writing. the sanchez presedo report, which i supported, deals with the conclusion of a new fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of mauritius and a new protocol setting out the financial counterparts. the new agreement will help to strengthen mauritius' capacity to combat illegal fishing and improve its infrastructure for monitoring fishing activities in its exclusive economic zone.
in writing. this new economic agreement is, at first sight, not a bad agreement, since it is economically reasonable and encourages a sustainable management of available resources. however, local fishermen's unions have come forward on many occasions with a distasteful feeling that they were not included in the negotiations, a problem unfortunately recurring in the field of eu fisheries agreements with third countries. our future common fisheries policy has the potential to incorporate, for the first time, binding ecological criteria in the name of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. but this key paradigm shift must be made in close collaboration with the first parties concerned, and therefore the local fishermen, who are the guarantors of a successful ecological transition. the european parliament has now given its approval, and i encourage the competent authorities to work in good faith with their preferred partners, in a spirit of exchange, respect and adequate support for the healthy and endogenous development of local economies.
in writing. i supported the proposal to conclude a new fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of mauritius. i found this agreement to be well balanced for both sides. the european union has also agreed to extend the fishing rights of the european union to the island of mauritius, which is a member of the european union. it was essential to ensure that this agreement did not have adverse economic, social and environmental consequences for the republic of mauritius.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which paves the way for the conclusion of a new protocol to the fisheries agreement with the republic of mauritius. i support the priorities set out in this report, namely the strengthening of the republic of mauritius' capacity to combat illegal fishing, through the improvement of the quality of its infrastructure for monitoring and controlling fisheries in their exclusive economic zone. it is also of the utmost importance to me, as the rapporteur has requested, that the european parliament be kept informed of all the steps in the procedure for the conclusion of this protocol. this is an imperative of democracy, which we will not hesitate to demand in the council and the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which establishes genuine reciprocity between the european union and the republic of mauritius. this trade agreement firstly benefits the european union by giving its fishermen the opportunity to fish for tuna in mauritian waters. but it is also a real economic and political asset for the republic of mauritius, since it is accompanied by significant financial compensation and helps to support mauritius in its fight against illegal and unreported fishing. it is on this kind of reciprocity that the eu must base all its agreements with third countries.
in writing. i supported in plenary the report by my colleague antolin sanchez presedo. this report dealt with a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a new fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of mauritius. the purpose of this regulation is to define the conditions under which fishing vessels flying the flag of the union and registered in the union may fish for tuna in the waters under the sovereignty of mauritius. the report was adopted by a large majority, 659 votes in favour.
in writing. i voted against the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and mauritius. fisheries in mauritius are very important from a nutritional, economic and social point of view, providing jobs and income for the people of the coastal regions but also for the country of significant export revenues. despite some restrictions on european fleets, the risk of mauritius' fisheries being plundered by large european fleets is high and will add to the pressure already being exerted on the resources of the lagoons in the interior of the island. it is important to protect the marine and fisheries biodiversity of mauritius, to ensure the sustainable development of the sector and to prevent the risk of competition between mauritian and european fleets, which is, to say the least, unequal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to request an extension of the waiver of the immunity of hans-peter martin, austrian member of the european parliament. the parliament had already lifted the mp's immunity in september 2011 in relation to allegations of misappropriation of funds intended for party financing. this time, the vienna public prosecutor's office wanted to carry out further investigations because of new allegations that hans-peter martin had conducted fraudulent operations under the austrian criminal code, claiming to have employed and paid from public funds a person as an assistant when she had never worked for him in the context of his parliamentary activities. in view of article 9 of the protocol on privileges and immunities, the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and the austrian constitution, i therefore support the position of the committee on legal affairs, which stresses that there is no reason not to waive the immunity of hans-peter martin.
in writing. i argued that this report was related to the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the unregistered mep hans-peter martin. the report by my colleague, mr tadeusz zwiefka, was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. i am voting for the waiver of mr hans-peter martin's parliamentary immunity, as he himself has requested. investigations must be allowed to take place and justice must be served.
in writing. this report by the committee on legal affairs stresses the relevance of the request for the waiver of the immunity of mep jürgen creutzmann. the frankenthal prosecutor's office in germany intends to prosecute him in criminal proceedings on the grounds that the mep is guilty of an offence of unintentional injury. while driving a vehicle, mr creutzmann was allegedly guilty of refusing to give priority to another vehicle at an intersection, causing a collision in which the passenger in the second vehicle was seriously injured. in view of article 9 of the protocol and the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of parliament and the german basic law, i consider it necessary to waive mr creutzmann's parliamentary immunity. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague francesco enrico speroni in plenary. the report concerned the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jürgen creutzmann, a german member of the european parliament and a member of the liberal, democratic and reformist party (alde). it was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. i vote for the waiver of mr creutzmann's immunity for the offence of unintentional assault. immunity is not used to protect members suspected of common law offences but to ensure that their parliamentary work is not impeded. mr creutzmann must be able to answer for the facts he is accused of.
in writing. i support this report which proposes that the immunity of ewald stadler mep be lifted. mr ewald stadler is the subject of a request for a preliminary investigation by the vienna public prosecutor's office on suspicion of attempted aggravated coercion and perjury. he allegedly conspired with a third party to force an austrian member of parliament to communicate with him by threatening to disclose compromising photographs which could damage his social reputation. the austrian mp then resigned. mr stadler subsequently committed perjury in stating that he had received the photographs after christmas, indicating that he wished to distribute them with the sole aim of opening an investigation into the matter. the legal affairs committee has found no evidence in this case that this case is a campaign of political vilification. there are therefore no grounds for waiving mr stadler's immunity.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague tadeusz zwiefka in plenary. the report concerned the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of ewald stadler, an austrian member of the non-inscribed party (ni). this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. mr ewald stadler is suspected of having pressured an austrian member of parliament who had participated in fascist paramilitary activities in his youth to change the allocation of public aid. he is also suspected of perjury in this case. the request for waiver of immunity is not based on mr stadler's parliamentary activities but on an accusation of blackmail. it is important that light be shed not only on the truth of the accusation but also on the accuser's past. i vote for the waiver of mr. stadler's immunity.
in writing. on 20 february 2013, the european commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of italy. the purpose of this egf assistance is to support the reintegration into the labour market of thousands of workers made redundant by the company antonio merloni spa, located in the italian regions of marche and umbria. only 1517 of these redundancies will be eligible for the egf over the period requested. the fund was mobilised following the economic difficulties of antonio merloni spa, which suffered the drastic consequences of the crisis in the market for the manufacture of household appliances. i voted in favour of this report in order to validate the european commission's assessment that this request for use of the fund for italy, which meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, is legitimate.
in writing. at this plenary session, we adopted three requests to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund. i have had the opportunity to say, and i say it again here, that this fund is, in my view, one of the only tools which, in this period of crisis, allows the european union to show, in a concrete way, its solidarity with the european citizens who are suffering the effects of the crisis. it must be preserved ! and if possible with a budgetary envelope worthy of the name: according to the budgetary agreement of the last european council on 7 and 8 february, this is far from the case: the annual budget would be drastically reduced from eur 500 million to eur 150 million. in these circumstances, how can we continue to help redundant workers throughout the union to make a change? since its creation in 2007 and until today, the egf has fully demonstrated its usefulness. no one would understand that he is being sacrificed and that he is paying for the negotiations on the cfp.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) requested by italy for its merloni home appliances company. the fund was set up to support the reintegration of european workers affected by redundancies directly resulting from profound changes in the economic situation of the country. as italy faces an unprecedented crisis, dealing a heavy blow to its jobs and growth, it is vital that this little-known european fund is mobilised to support employment by helping redundant workers reintegrate.
in writing. thanks to the support of the european globalisation adjustment fund, more than 1500 italian workers will be able to benefit from support to accompany them and reintegrate them into the labour market. it is unfortunate, however, that this request has had to wait for more than a year before it can be honoured: a year is an extremely long time when it comes to enabling employees to return to work to feed their families. the commission should make sure that the time limits for its evaluation period are shortened: behind the procedures there are men and women to be taken into account.
in writing. the global economic and financial crisis has hit many sectors of european industry hard. to take just one significant example, unemployment increased by 40% in some italian regions between 2008 and 2009. the manufacture of household appliances is a perfect example of this. the italian company merloni, the fifth largest european manufacturer of household appliances in 2002, had to lay off 1517 employees between august and september 2011 due to the decline in production and the sharp tightening of the conditions for granting bank loans. in this context, the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up to provide rapid assistance to workers affected by the crisis, is useful. it is therefore justified that the european union is providing more than €5 million to help these dismissed workers, in particular to finance new vocational training, upgrading their skills or supporting entrepreneurship programmes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which grants italy european financial aid to support the reintegration into the labour market of 1517 workers made redundant in the household appliances sector. this decision illustrates the major role that the european globalisation adjustment fund can play in helping economic sectors in crisis. a strong european union is one which protects its citizens from the uncertainties of life!
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague frédéric daerden in plenary. the report was intended to help italy, which is facing redundancies in the manufacture of household appliances. the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers hard hit by the crisis and to help reintegrate them into the labour market. the company antonio merloni spa, which specialises in the manufacture of household appliances, had to make use of 1517 redundancies at the end of 2011. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 615 votes in favour, 76 against and 16 abstentions. i welcome this result.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which provides for aid of €5 037 482 for the reintegration of workers in an italian electrical appliance company. competition in the field of household appliances is tough in the face of competition from countries with low labour costs such as china or turkey. the company antonio merloni spa is one of them and 1517 jobs are now threatened. europe is not immune to these difficulties and is helping workers affected by the crisis to reintegrate into the labour market through the globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for italy. this fund should be used as additional support for workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. on 7 march 2013, the european commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy, following the redundancies of 1 257 workers by the italian company agile s.r.l., a service provider in the information technology sector. the company was severely affected by the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed thus includes vocational reintegration measures for 856 workers, including vocational guidance services and skills assessments. the european commission concluded that the application met the criteria for intervention by the fund, for a transfer of a total amount of eur 3 689 474 from the egf reserve.
in writing. at this plenary session, we adopted three requests to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund. i have had the opportunity to say, and i say it again here, that this fund is, in my view, one of the only tools which, in this period of crisis, allows the european union to show, in a concrete way, its solidarity with the european citizens who are suffering the effects of the crisis. it must be preserved ! and if possible with a budgetary envelope worthy of the name: according to the budgetary agreement of the last european council on 7 and 8 february, this is far from the case: the annual budget would be drastically reduced from eur 500 million to eur 150 million. in these circumstances, how can we continue to help redundant workers throughout the union to make a change? since its creation in 2007 and until today, the egf has fully demonstrated its usefulness. no one would understand that he is being sacrificed and that he is paying for the negotiations on the cfp.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) requested by italy for its agile ict company. this fund was set up to support the reintegration of european workers affected by redundancies directly resulting from profound changes in the economic situation of the country. as italy faces an unprecedented crisis, dealing a heavy blow to its jobs and growth, it is vital that this little-known european fund is mobilised to support employment by helping redundant workers reintegrate.
in writing. thanks to this vote, 856 italian workers who have been made redundant will be able to benefit from support and reintegration measures. unfortunately, the commission has been guilty of slowing down on this matter again: 15 months is the time it took to communicate its assessment. 15 months is the time during which these workers have been deprived of vital assistance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which grants italy european financial aid to support the reintegration into the labour market of 1257 workers made redundant in the household appliances sector. this decision illustrates the major role that the european globalisation adjustment fund can play in helping economic sectors in crisis. a strong european union is one which protects its citizens from the uncertainties of life!
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague angelika werthmann in plenary. the report was intended to help italy, which is facing redundancies in the it services sector. the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers hard hit by the crisis and to help reintegrate them into the labour market. agile, a company specialising in the information and communication technology sector, had to make use of a large number of redundancies at the end of 2011. the european globalisation adjustment fund will be mobilised to provide €3689474 in aid to italy. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 619 votes in favour, 72 against and 24 abstentions. i welcome this result.
in writing. with a budget of up to €500 million a year, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers find new jobs and acquire new skills if they have lost their jobs as a result of a change in the structure of world trade, such as the closure of a large company. on 7 march 2013, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by austria tabak. this is the closure of the second largest employer in the region between austria and slovakia. the intervention of the egf seems to me legitimate in view of the use of the criterion of exceptional circumstances arising from the particular situation of this crossborder area where the redundancies occurred. i voted in favour of using this fund in austria to help alleviate the serious consequences of the closure of this company for the economy and the labour market at local and regional level.
in writing. at this plenary session, we adopted three requests to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund. i have had the opportunity to say, and i say it again here, that this fund is, in my view, one of the only tools which, in this period of crisis, allows the european union to show, in a concrete way, its solidarity with the european citizens who are suffering the effects of the crisis. it must be preserved ! and if possible with a budgetary envelope worthy of the name: according to the budgetary agreement of the last european council on 7 and 8 february, this is far from the case: the annual budget would be drastically reduced from eur 500 million to eur 150 million. in these circumstances, how can we continue to help redundant workers throughout the union to make a change? since its creation in 2007 and until today, the egf has fully demonstrated its usefulness. no one would understand that he is being sacrificed and that he is paying for the negotiations on the cfp.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request by austria to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for its cigarette company austria tabak. this fund was set up to support the reintegration of european workers affected by redundancies directly resulting from profound changes in the economic situation of the country. in addition to investments from austria, this egf release will support employment by helping redundant austrian workers to reintegrate.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a tool unknown to the general public, but which plays a crucial role in the lives of several thousand workers made redundant each year. the 270 people who were working in austria will be able to benefit from vocational guidance, job-search assistance, vocational training and other support measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which grants austria european financial aid to support the reintegration into the labour market of 320 workers made redundant in the household appliances sector. this decision illustrates the major role that the european globalisation adjustment fund can play in helping economic sectors in crisis. a strong european union is one which protects its citizens from the uncertainties of life!
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague frédéric daerden in plenary. the report was intended to help austria, which is facing redundancies in the tobacco sector. the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers hard hit by the crisis and to help reintegrate them into the labour market. austria tabak gmbh, a company specialised in the production and supply of tobacco, had to make use of 320 redundancies at the end of 2011. the european globalisation adjustment fund will be mobilised to provide eur 3941999 in aid to austria. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 557 votes in favour, 83 against and 74 abstentions. i welcome this result.
mr president, the spanish socialist delegation, aware that the wto rules do not allow the tariff exemptions that the union offers to the asia-caribbean-pacific countries - the acp countries - to be maintained indefinitely, has argued that the deadline for their abolition should not jeopardize the development of these countries or the activities of economic operators on both sides. the commission has therefore concluded that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. this is the only realistic and reasonable timeframe which would allow the acp countries a certain amount of time to sign and ratify their association agreements and allow economic operators sufficient time to adapt to this new situation. unfortunately, today our support was not enough to approve this date. in this context, we have supported the october 2014 date as the lesser evil, although we consider it too short a timeframe, and we deeply regret the responsibility in this matter of the council and of some political groups, such as the epp, which will cause more than one difficulty to some of the developing countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to comment on the european parliament's approval of the exclusion of 18 countries from trade preferences under future epa agreements. as members of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, we have had a lot of discussion on this subject with our colleagues from the acp countries, who have expressed their deep concern about this change and have asked for a sufficient extension of the deadline. since this approach has not been adopted, i would like to express my disappointment today and stress the need for the union to put its policy of development cohesion into practice by establishing strong links between development aid and the other sectoral policies of the european union, in particular agricultural, trade and fiscal policies. i would also like to point out that the acp countries and regions are ready to conclude fair and mutually beneficial epas in the spirit of the cotonou agreements. i am therefore criticising this logic of punishment, whereas these agreements must be built on successes and fair trade relations.
in writing. relations between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the european union are governed by the acp-eu partnership agreement concluded in cotonou on 23 june 2000 for a period of 20 years. in this agreement, the two sides agreed to replace existing trade provisions with economic partnership agreements (epas) in order to gradually remove barriers to trade and improve cooperation in all trade-related areas. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to put an end to the incompatibility of special tariff concessions granted to countries which have not accompanied the process of ratification of the epas. the proposed regulation was an exception to the normal system of tariff concessions under the rules of the world trade organization as it was a special derogation for acp countries. i therefore support the european commission in sanctioning countries which do not comply with the provisions of this regulation, the non-signatories of the epa. the amending regulation also divides the 18 acp countries which have not signed the epa into three categories according to their income level.
in writing. i voted in favour of amending the number of acp countries benefiting from preferential tariff regimes for their trade with the eu. at present, 36 countries imported into the eu without paying any taxes. some former acp countries have taken advantage of this wto derogation to disregard the rules and not ratify the economic partnership agreement, when they are now able to assume the normal wto rules. in accordance with the principle of fairness, we have therefore chosen to exclude from the list certain countries which will no longer benefit from the preferential regime as of october 2014.
in writing. to help the poorest countries in the world develop, the european union has committed itself to concluding economic partnership agreements with the acp (africa, caribbean and pacific) countries in order to boost trade. pending the formal conclusion of these agreements, the european union has granted preferential access to its markets to products from acp countries since 2008. while some economic partnership agreements are already in force, negotiations for these agreements between the eu and 17 acp countries are still ongoing. the eu's trade preferences for products originating from these countries were originally due to end on 1 january 2014, to make way for the new trade regime provided for in the economic partnership agreements. in view of the longer negotiating period, it became necessary for the union to grant an additional 10 months of trade preferences to these 17 countries, in order not to create instability detrimental to the states parties concerned, the time to conclude and ratify balanced agreements respecting the interests of both parties.
in writing. the trade preferences currently enjoyed by acp countries are contrary to wto rules. the union then put in place new economic partnership agreements in line with wto rules. however, some countries have not signed these new agreements, which poses a real problem of fairness towards those who have signed them. i supported this report which seeks to exclude from trade preferences those countries which have not yet signed these new agreements. in this text, the european union puts a point of honour on respecting the rules of the wto and the principle of fairness.
in writing. the european union has entered into negotiations with 36 countries in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) region to conclude asymmetric free trade agreements known as economic partnership agreements (epas). however, while some regions have already ratified interim agreements since 2007, other negotiations have not yet been concluded. there is a diversity of situations within the acp area. while 18 countries have ratified the agreement, the other 18 countries that have not can be classified into three categories: least developed countries benefiting from the "everything but arms" initiative; countries benefiting from the generalised system of preferences; and countries benefiting from the "everything but arms" initiative. and middle-income countries. the eu is obliged to comply with wto rules and to honour its commitments to countries that have ratified epas. i therefore welcome the position adopted by the european parliament and widely supported on tuesday, 16 april, to exclude those countries which have not taken the necessary steps to ratify these agreements as of october 2014.
in writing. certain acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific) continued to benefit from tariff preferences for their exports to the european union, even though they no longer met the criteria justifying this preferential treatment. as this is illegal under the world trade organisation system, there was an urgent need to regularize the situation and consider signing economic partnership agreements (epas) with these countries. by voting in favour of this text, which sets 1 october 2014 as the date by which the states concerned must have ratified the epas, i believe i have supported a fair compromise, which will give the countries concerned enough time to prepare for this change.
in writing. this report at second reading is a step back from the already despicable report which was put to our vote last september. it continued to support the institutionalisation of blackmail excluding the benefit of trade preferences on acp governments which refuse to ratify economic partnership agreements. the only 'advance' proposed in the text is to delay the implementation of the threat by a few months. pillage or punishment. this is the only alternative that the majority here present has left to the peoples of botswana, burundi, cameroon, the comoros, côte d'ivoire, the republic of fiji, ghana, haiti, kenya, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, rwanda, swaziland, tanzania, uganda, zambia and zimbabwe. i denounce this odious text. the time for colonies is over! i vote against it.
in writing. the report proposed for second reading aims to exclude a number of african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries from the list of countries benefiting from trade preferences, on the grounds that they are not ratifying the economic partnership agreements (epas), free trade agreements with the eu, quickly enough. such a measure is designed to put pressure on the acp countries to sign these epas. however, some of the provisions of these agreements are controversial and could seriously harm the development of the acp countries, in particular by putting their local products in direct competition with eu products and reducing their customs duty revenue. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote against this proposal.
in writing. in the interests of the acp countries, i believe that the deadline for the latter to have preferential access to the eu market should have been postponed to 1 january 2016, two years longer than the european commission's initial proposal. such a decision would have sent a positive signal to our acp partners, for whom ratification of the economic partnership agreements with the eu will have major consequences. the european right does not seem to regard the acp countries as respectable partners, but would rather impose trade liberalisation on them. the date of 1 october 2014 was therefore finally decided today by the european parliament's vote. this date, which is the result of the compromise reached last month with the council, has the merit of giving the acp countries nine more months to prepare for this profound change in our trade relations. this compromise is the lesser of two evils, and i have therefore supported it today. but i would like to reiterate that it does not represent my initial position or that of our acp partners.
in writing. around 20 countries (cameroon, mozambique, haiti, etc.) have refused to take the necessary steps to ratify the economic partnership agreements (epas) with the eu. the commission and the council want to encourage these countries to sign these agreements as soon as possible. the commission's regulation threatens to exclude them from the list of countries which grant them preferential customs duties, which would put them in great budgetary difficulty. worse still, the arrival of low-priced european agricultural products risks destabilising food agriculture in these countries. and converting to export monocultures would inevitably lead to the destruction of local production at the expense of the food of the population and major ecological imbalances and make them even more dependent on fluctuations in world markets. the only room for manoeuvre we had in parliament was, at best, to postpone this measure from january 2014 to october 2014, leaving a tiny bit more time for countries to prepare. i voted for all the amendments setting the earliest possible dates and i would like to denounce here this institutional blackmail which leaves us with no choice but to set the cut-off date for these countries.
in writing. the european carbon emission trading scheme (ects) is the cornerstone of the eu's climate policy. this market system aims at the progressive reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the union in order to meet the international commitments under the kyoto protocol. however, an over-allocation of emission allowances for the third phase of the ets (2013-2020), combined with the economic crisis and the impact of other energy objectives, led to an over-allocation of allowances in relation to industrial needs. the market is suffering from a severe imbalance, and the price of a ton of carbon has fallen by 30% in one year. i am very sorry that the members have rejected the commission's proposal to freeze quotas, although i am convinced that the ems must be saved by reforming it both in the short term and structurally in the long term. i believe that if a market is not functioning properly, we must have the courage to regulate it by correcting the rules. that is why we must continue to work on the reform of the etuc.
in writing. twenty votes were missing to adopt the backloading bill and give fresh life to our greenhouse gas emissions trading system. what a failure! the european parliament's rejection of the postponement of the auctioning of 900 million tonnes of carbon allowances is a serious setback for the eu, and de facto reduces our ambition to exercise leadership in the fight against climate change. even as non-eu countries adopt the system, we will bury ours! immediately after the vote, the price per tonne fell to 3 euros, which means that this is not the way to encourage the development of cleaner energy sources. i welcome the determination of commissioner hedegaard, who has already announced that she still intends to raise the price of the tonne. so of course, the barter system is not the panacea, far from it. but this backloading was an emergency measure, nothing more, because the need for structural reform is recognized by all and proposals are already on the table.
in writing. i voted against the commission's proposal to freeze 900 million 'rights to pollute' on the carbon market in order to limit the number of securities available on the market and thus better manage the carbon price. the proposal would have had the direct consequence of increasing the cost of energy, and in these times of crisis it is important to think first of our industries and our jobs. i remain convinced that a policy to reduce greenhouse gases such as the ets is necessary, as is support for investment in renewable energy. but in this difficult period for our companies, we had to make a rational choice and think about our jobs.
in writing. the emissions trading scheme is a symbol of the european union's leading edge in the fight against climate change. i think we urgently need structural reforms to get it back to working properly. is this the right time to artificially raise the price of carbon? in these times of crisis, we must not do anything which might even cause fear of a loss of competitiveness in our companies. it is the jobs of europeans that are at stake. that is why i spoke against the commission's proposal. this matter has been referred to the committee on the environment, so we shall have the opportunity to continue our reflection on the subject.
in writing. at the global level, tackling the effects of climate change is probably one of the greatest challenges of all time. since the 1990s, the european union has taken bold steps in this regard, including the establishment of a carbon market to limit emissions from the most polluting industries. but the european system of trading quotas is now facing a crisis that threatens its existence and credibility. in addition to the deteriorating economic environment, the lack of visibility into the 2030 and 2040 constraint and the weak perception by market participants of the political will to support the market today and in the longer term have a strong impact on carbon prices. a first emergency measure could have been backloading, i.e. postponing the auctioning of 900 million tonnes of carbon allowances. but beyond this measure, which was referred back for consideration by a small majority in the european parliament, what we need above all is an ambitious and lasting reform of the system for combating climate change.
in writing. the ets was introduced in 2005 with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the market is now in serious difficulty, with the price of a tonne of carbon being less than 5 euros. it therefore seemed essential to react and vote in favour of this text which will help to save this system, which is the very heart of european policy to combat climate change. contrary to many of the arguments put forward, this measure should encourage the development of an industry that is more environmentally friendly.
in writing. i voted in favour of rejecting this proposal and, at the very least, in favour of referring it back to committee. because it seems to me that the european commission is a little contradictory. for years its entire policy has been based on the belief in the efficiency of markets, and now on this particular issue it is proposing to manipulate the market on the grounds that the price per tonne of co2 is too low. it is true that the real issue is ideological: economic realism versus global warming religion. the opposite majorities in the committees on industry and the environment are symptomatic in this respect. the problem is that these prices are perfectly justified in the light of the current economic crisis. and if the system is bad, then it's the whole system that needs to be changed, not trying to fix it up one by one.
in writing. the carbon market is the only operational instrument of eu climate policy to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. due to the crisis and the "generosity" of the states in allocating quotas to industrial sectors, this market has completely collapsed since 2008. to remedy this, the european commission is proposing to intervene in the european market for co2 allowances by freezing 900 million surplus allowances. this proposal, which was not sufficient, would have allowed the european carbon market to survive and opened up the prospect of a thoroughgoing overhaul of the european emissions trading system. by rejecting this proposal, the european parliament is undermining the efforts of many companies to reduce their emissions and contribute to the decarbonised economy we need to achieve by 2050 to avoid climate catastrophe. that is why i voted against this report. the proposal is currently being referred back to committee and will return to the plenary in a few weeks' time. i hope that this time the members of the european parliament will be up to the challenge.
in writing. the european parliament's rejection of the european commission's proposal to intervene in the co2 emission allowance market and artificially raise the price per tonne is a common sense decision. we cannot afford to add crisis to crisis while our industries are suffering the full effects of the economic downturn in europe and the pressure of global competition. in 2008, nicolas sarkozy's government committed the eu to reducing its emissions by 20% by 2020. this is a goal we are keeping in mind and we must acknowledge the efforts already made by industry in this direction. the rejection of the commission's proposal does not mean the death of the european carbon trading system but the will not to disrupt the activities of industries and their long-term investment plans which will serve, when growth reappears in europe, the objective of combating climate change. today, however, the priority must be to maintain industrial activity and our jobs in europe.
in writing. i have chosen, like the majority of my epp colleagues, to reject the european commission's proposal to freeze the auctioning of excess co2 allowances under the european carbon trading system, the cornerstone of the european union's climate policy. while it is certain that the eu will achieve its 2020 emission reduction targets (a 20% reduction), i do not want to aggravate an already very painful situation for our european businesses in these times of economic crisis.
in writing. the european parliament chose to refer this proposal, which aimed to increase the price of the 'polluting permit' within the european union, to the environment committee. this will give members more time to debate the subject, which i thought was necessary. the question is far too complex and transversal, and the proposal did not contain any measures to provide a comprehensive answer. on the other hand, the economic situation is such that a rise in the price of carbon would risk reducing the competitiveness of our companies and industry, especially small and mediumsized ones, which would be hit the hardest.
in writing. i personally voted against the freezing of the auctioning of 900 million tonnes of surplus co2 emission allowances. far from separating the 'good' and the 'bad', those who would be in favour of the environment and the fight against global warming and those who would be hostile to it and would have 'sold out' to the industrial lobbies, i think that the freezing of the auction of the auction proposed by commissioner hedegaard would lead to an extra cost of the price of energy for both individuals and companies. and this really doesn't seem like the right time! moreover, the european union is an example, it is perfectly capable of meeting its co2 emission reduction targets by 2020 without going through this freeze. i therefore voted, with the majority of my colleagues, to refer the text to the relevant parliamentary committees so that they can work on a solution to adapt the market management system to the economic realities of the moment without hindering the continuation of the fight against global warming.
in writing. the text does not call into question the carbon market, whose inefficiency and even harmfulness have now been proven. it does not at any time refer to the competition of auction platforms for polluting rights and their derivatives. it merely allows the commission to make a change to the timetable for auctioning the polluting rights without ever asking what the commission's intentions are in this respect. it also stressed the need to take precautions to avoid encouraging companies to relocate. another report that benefits the markets and harms the environment. i vote against it.
in writing. the current european system for combating greenhouse gas emissions, based on a european carbon market where 'polluting rights' are sold, is far from effective. for example, it has not achieved the emission reduction targets. this is partly because carbon prices tend to be too low to provide an incentive for a transition to cleaner production methods, which is not acceptable. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the commission's proposal to clarify the provisions on the timing of the auctioning of emission allowances to increase carbon prices, and thus to encourage companies to further reduce their emissions. however, beyond this provision, i would like to see a much more profound reform of this system. in order to meet the challenge of climate change, the european union needs to develop new, more ambitious and truly effective policies to support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. it was inconceivable that i would support this proposal. and i am very glad that parliament has rejected it. i am sorry to see that parliament has left the door open to further negotiations. the price of co2 emission allowances, which was the aim of the manoeuvre, would have been artificially increased, and all our efforts to restart industrial activity would have been foiled! this would have further weakened the competitiveness of our industries vis-à-vis our competitors. on the one hand, because of the almost instantaneous increase in the cost of energy and, consequently, in production. and secondly, the legal instability of our standards would have pushed our entrepreneurs and investors even further to leave europe. let's not add crisis to crisis! the fight against climate change must of course be and always remain at the centre of our priorities. but europe is a good student, and we will achieve all our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets without any problems. this is confirmed by many experts. so let us get rid of these blinders that prevent us from identifying the real emergencies and let us try, once and for all, to save our economic model!
in writing. parliament voted this week on the temporary freezing of 900 million tonnes of co2. this was a measure to save the co2 market by raising the price of a tonne of co2. i voted for this freezing of quotas and i deeply regret that it was rejected by a majority of members. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in reality, this was an important pro-environmental measure that effectively combats co2 emissions. moreover, voting against this text not only does not encourage virtuous behaviour but, on the contrary, penalizes companies that have made investment efforts to make their activity less emissive.
in writing. the european emissions trading scheme is a unique carbon marketplace created to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from european industries. companies have carbon credits, which they can auction off if they reduce their emissions. the crisis has weakened energy-consuming companies, reducing their production and thus their emissions. the commission wanted to raise the price of a tonne of co2 to encourage renewable energy. however, this proposal risks raising the cost of energy, destabilising the market and increasing the advantage of industries outside the european union. i therefore voted against this proposal in order to consider how to improve the system on a permanent basis without calling into question the principles of the system.
in writing. the european parliament has given its opinion on the timetable for greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions. the european union has set up a quota trading system to reduce co2 emissions from european industries, which are responsible for global warming. however, as a result of the crisis, the tonne of co2 has fallen dramatically (from eur 30 at the end of 2011 to less than eur 7 at present). i regret that parliament has decided to leave the system as it is with a ton of very cheap co2. i have personally voted for a reform of the system so that the price of a tonne of co2 is raised. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the products it produces. and, beyond these environmental considerations, it should be stressed that green technologies are a particularly important source of jobs for the european union. i also want to encourage the many smes in europe to invest more in less polluting technologies.
in writing. parliament's rejection of the possibility of freezing the auctioning of 900 million tonnes of co2 emission allowances seriously calls into question the relevance of the very existence of the emission allowance market, and shows the limits of the commodification of pollution. the price of a ton of carbon, which is supposed to limit emissions by imposing a dissuasive price, has only fallen since its creation: from 30 euros per ton when it was launched, it was 10 euros last year, and fell to 2.63 euros at 2 pm, after the rejection of the parliament. 89% of europeans consider global warming to be a serious issue and believe that it can also help boost the economy and employment (eurobarometer 2011). if a reassessment of the system seemed necessary, it will now undoubtedly be necessary to focus on the union providing a credible response to the problem posed by the lack of deterrence of the existing system. the question of environmental dumping is indeed a problem, exacerbated by the economic and social crisis we are going through.
in writing. given the unprecedented circumstances facing the eu in relation to the ets, i believe that the commission should be able to adapt the auction timetable exceptionally, in the interests of stability of the regulation and in advance of the implementation of long-term structural measures. it is also important to send a signal of political commitment to market players. that is why i supported the groote report. europe needs concrete and rapid action, particularly when projects are launched under ner300. the proposals to reject the ets, on the contrary, presuppose a long and cumbersome implementation of an alternative system, which would destabilize the market. moreover, the arguments that the increase in the price of the carbon tonne is harmful to undertakings are not valid, since the objective is to restore the price of the tonne as it was at the launch of the ets. in addition, sectors subject to international competition are already protected in the basic system. the groote report responds well to current concerns by ensuring the stability of the ets while paving the way for the establishment of long-term measures.
in writing. − the european commission's proposed suspension of allowance trading is not to be supported as it creates uncertainty about the future of the eu emissions trading system (ets) and threatens the future of local manufacturing companies. i believe that the commission should be more cautious with such measures, by carefully assessing how the suspension of quotas will affect european producers, including latvian companies that export their products to third countries. the commission's aim in encouraging the suspension of the trading of allowances and thus artificially driving up the price of co2 allowances on the market is an ill-conceived proposal to reduce harmful emissions into the air. the commission's initiative would bring transparency to climate change legislation by affecting the current trading period provided for in existing legislation. this would introduce a certain degree of uncertainty and create a situation in which european producers, including latvian producers, would find it difficult to plan production for the coming years. at a time when we need to think about how to get out of economic stagnation, postponing quota trading would further limit the recovery of production and put jobs at risk. that is why i am voting against the commission's proposal.
in writing. under pressure from the industrial and employers' lobby, the right wing of parliament rejected the commission's proposal to freeze a large part of the excess co2 emission allowances of the european emissions trading system (ets). this is a real scandal because a large number of european industries have benefited from the over-allocation of quotas since the creation of the ets. the freeze was intended to help raise the price of co2 and to encourage manufacturers to invest in cleaner production processes. it's a bummer because the current system has been ineffective for years. the gue/ngl group remains hostile to the carbon market system, but it is the only mechanism at the moment to try to reduce co2 emissions. the commission has therefore at least to be better placed to compel manufacturers to reduce their emissions. the only long-term solution is a thorough reform of the ets and the establishment of a genuine european policy to combat climate change, which is more necessary than ever. the vote by a majority of parliament is therefore totally irresponsible because by maintaining the status quo of the ets system, it leaves open the right to pollute for industrialists.
in writing. the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme (ges) for intercontinental flights departing from and landing at european airports is an ambitious environmental policy programme of the european union. i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement freezing the entry into force of this programme for the year 2012. the aim is to 'stop the ets pendulum' for one year for intercontinental flights (operated by eu and third country airlines) at departure and at landing at eu airports. this freeze on the entry into force of the directive will help to ease tensions with our partners in third countries and to negotiate with them an international agreement on carbon emissions from the aviation sector. if successful, european aviation will no longer face competition from airlines not bound by the same climate obligations. it is now up to the council to decide on the freezing of directive 2003/87/ec. he has to do it by april 30th.
in writing. on 16 april, the european parliament put forward directive 2008/101/ec which incorporates airlines into the greenhouse gas emission allowance system. ceding to pressure from its major trading partners (china and the united states in the lead), a small majority of elected officials has just contributed, as is no longer customary in these times of crisis, to the eu's leadership in the fight against global warming. the majority voted to postpone the application of the scheme to intercontinental flights to and from the eu until the international civil aviation organisation ag scheduled for november 2013. the reasons given are more than wrong: how could this measure, which continues to apply to flights within the eu, distort competition or hinder competitiveness, when its application only increases the price of the air ticket by about one euro per passenger? even less clear is how this would strengthen the eu's negotiating capacity within icao, as it is weakening its positions even before the start of negotiations that are supposed to lead to a global agreement on the issue. that is why i opposed the postponement of the directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the derogation from the ets regime in the field of continental flights. the ets system set up by the commission aims to introduce 'polluting permits', but this system is suspended for intercontinental flights to and from airports outside the european economic area, in order to facilitate progress towards a comprehensive agreement within the international civil aviation organisation (icao). this derogation is only temporary (one year), and the eu is trying to put some pressure on the icao negotiations to move forward.
in writing. how can aviation, whose greenhouse gas emissions have increased substantially, be encouraged to take better account of its impact and responsibility in climate change? this vote is a strong signal to all our partners, a signal of our goodwill: we are ready to negotiate an agreement that will suit everyone. but this vote also shows our determination: if no concrete and effective solution is found, we will apply the emissions trading system (ets) to all international flights. we are now awaiting the results of the icao's work. this derogation is not a renunciation: it is intended to enable us to conduct the negotiations on a sound and calm basis with our partners, and i therefore fully support it.
in writing. the next summit of the international civil aviation organisation (icao) in september 2013 has a good chance of reaching a multilateral agreement establishing a global market mechanism to regulate co2 emissions in the aviation sector. in order to send a positive signal to its international partners, the european union has decided to temporarily suspend its system of carbon emission quotas for intercontinental flights by european and non-european carriers for a period of one year. the hand extended by europe on the eve of the international negotiations in the icao must now be translated into rapid and effective results in reducing the quantities of greenhouse gases produced by aviation, which have almost doubled in the last 20 years and represent 3% of the total.
in writing. i supported the postponement of the application of the emissions trading scheme to the aviation sector for flights to and from third countries in order to allow for the continuation of internal negotiations. the european union must strengthen its dialogue with its partners by the end of the year so that this issue can be addressed constructively when new negotiations are opened in the icao next autumn. the european union must be firm in maintaining this objective, but it cannot ignore the opposition of many of our key partners who regret the use of the dialogue method on this issue. it is urgent to strengthen contacts so that these tensions are reflected in the implementation of retaliatory measures against aviation actors who cannot be supported by this major political blockade.
in writing. the european parliament's rejection of the european commission's proposal to intervene in the co2 emission allowance market and artificially raise the price per tonne is a common sense decision. we cannot afford to add crisis to crisis while our industries are suffering the full effects of the economic downturn in europe and the pressure of global competition. in 2008, nicolas sarkozy's government committed the eu to reducing its emissions by 20% by 2020. this is a goal we are keeping in mind and we must acknowledge the efforts already made by industry in this direction. the rejection of the commission's proposal does not mean the death of the european carbon trading system but the will not to disrupt the activities of industries and their long-term investment plans which will serve, when growth reappears in europe, the objective of combating climate change. today, however, the priority must be to maintain industrial activity and our jobs in europe.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague peter liese in plenary. the report was adopted by 577 votes in favour, 114 against and 21 abstentions. i welcome the adoption of this report which will allow for a temporary derogation from the conditions of directive 2003/87/ec establishing the ets (greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme) in order to allow for global regulation of emissions in the aviation sector.
in writing. the report proposes to remove any obligation to meet greenhouse gas emission quotas for flights to or from airports outside the eu. the commission has therefore submitted to pressure from the us airlines, which has been rejected by the court of justice of the european union. the pretext for this backsliding was the development of a global market mechanism for the exchange of emission allowances between airlines. therefore, no consequences are drawn from the inefficiency of the carbon market. i am voting against this inept text.
in writing. created in 2005 to combat climate change, the european carbon market operates on the basis of emission quotas, real 'polluting rights', which are supposed to encourage industry to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. but today we see that this system has failed. it has failed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or encourage investment in cleaner production methods. in some cases, it has even helped finance the biggest polluters. moreover, the carbon prices defined by this market are volatile and tend to be too low and fraud is widespread. that is why i opposed the proposal to safeguard this inefficient system by freezing some of the excess co2 allowances on the market. what we need is an end to this carbon market, a change of direction to adopt ambitious measures to effectively combat climate change, and a deeper transformation of our energy, financial and transport systems, as well as our modes of production, distribution and waste management.
in writing. in the plenary vote, i supported the european commission's proposal because i believe that the 'concentration at the end of the period' it envisages is a necessary option, at the risk of endangering the emissions trading system (ets) itself. we have seen this: the day after the vote, the price per tonne fell to 2 euros. the eecsc is at the heart of european policy to combat climate change and is beginning to take off in other major powers (australia, korea, china). if we europeans no longer support our own system, how will we be armed in future world markets? i hope very much that this matter will be brought back to our agenda as soon as possible so that we can find a positive solution together.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen regulation of the banking sector, whose deregulation was one of the main causes of the financial crisis. the crd iv package proposed by the european commission thus amends the eu rules on capital requirements for banks and investment firms. i fully support this proposal for a directive, because these new rules are designed to regulate banking activities in order to protect individual savers from taking excessive risks. for example, imposing capital requirements on banks. it was also necessary to limit the bonuses of bankers and traders, so that their remuneration could no longer exceed the total amount of their fixed salary. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. this proposal is the new cornerstone of a stable and more transparent european financial system.
in writing. i voted in favour of a package of measures to make banks more resilient, including capping bankers' bonuses, strengthening capital, and increasing supervision of speculative activities. this package of measures will also boost growth by facilitating access to loans for smes. the texts adopted constitute the foundation of a future banking union, providing a single supervisory mechanism, a deposit guarantee scheme and a new banking culture. it was a matter of being ambitious and showing that the european parliament was ready to move towards this banking union.
in writing. the aim of this vote is to put banks back at the service of the real economy. i hope that this agreement will be an important step in that direction. with this text we will not only make the banks more resilient to the risks of crisis, but we will also make a great step forward: that of limiting the bonuses for bankers.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis in which the european union has been embroiled for several years has highlighted the urgent need to regulate banks more strictly so that they are more resilient to uncertainties and more focused on their primary mission, the financing of the real economy. the european union has therefore drawn up a fundamental reform that should make it easier for banks to lend to businesses, to invest more securely in the markets and to be better equipped to deal with possible crises. european banks will now have to devote more of their capital to lending to smes. they will be required to have a larger share of 'own capital', reserves of non-virtual money, which can be mobilised quickly in case of emergency and which are intended to avoid the risk of bankruptcy. bankers' bonuses will be capped to reduce unreasonable speculative risk-taking. finally, banks will have to be more transparent, reporting to the commission their profits, turnover, taxes paid and the number of people they employ. this should eventually consolidate our business network and encourage production and thus the creation of sustainable jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of these texts, which represent a significant step forward in the establishment of a banking union. as the financial crisis has unfortunately shown, the economic and monetary union today lacks a banking and financial component in order to be fully effective and coherent. these two texts are already a first step, pending the actual establishment of this banking union.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of the two karas reports, which were supposed to adapt european and national banking law to the requirements of basel iii, and which were watered down by the basel committee itself a few months ago. the cap on wages is a good thing. but this does not offset other problems created by this regulation. i am thinking in particular of the increasingly disintermediated financing of the economy, the rush to deposit, and the very slow and very elaborate transposition of these same requirements in the united states. and last but not least, we know the objections raised by the banking sector against basel iii. and if he is satisfied with the compromise reached today, it is because it is not that good.
in writing. since 2008 a lot has been said about banks and their responsibilities in the crisis we are going through in europe. many also stressed the need to support smes and the real economy. but so far all these statements have been well-intentioned. with this text, which i supported, we have just made a real breakthrough. firstly, in the transparency of the financial sector and the soundness of the banks. secondly, in support of smes and the real economy. this is a key point for a lasting solution to the crisis which has been besetting europe for too long. because without investment and support for those who create and innovate, we will not be able to reverse this trend in a sustainable way.
in writing. i supported this report which finally confirms the launch of a genuine european banking reform to better control and prevent speculative financial deviations. this package of reforms provides for several significant and pioneering developments in the world. first, the bonuses of bankers and traders will now be capped and will no longer be allowed to exceed the amount of their fixed salary without consulting the shareholders. secondly, the text requires banks to be more transparent. they will have to publish the precise details of their activities in each country. third, banks will need to have a higher level of liquidity in the future to better contain the risks of bankruptcy and costly bailouts for taxpayers. finally, i welcome the fact that this banking reform provides for concrete measures for the real economy, for example by making it easier for european smes to obtain loans.
in writing. at the plenary session on 16 april, i supported the report by my colleague othmar karas on credit institutions and prudential supervision. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 608 votes in favour, 33 against and 68 abstentions. i welcome the adoption of this report which will ensure the proper functioning of banking markets and restore confidence in the sector. the new legislation will deal with credit institutions and investment firms in a single body and will allow for a consistent application of all the provisions.
in writing. i voted in favour of these reports, which are part of the reform package setting new rules for credit institutions and investment firms, because this is a fundamental issue and a key step in the reform of the european banking system. the measures adopted will prevent the abuses that led to the crisis, which completely paralysed the banking market, from happening again and will also help to stimulate growth. for example, capping bonuses for bankers (up to twice their normal salary) will discourage dangerous speculation, which has been allowed too often in the past, and will encourage banks to lend more to the real economy, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. the increase in the quantity and quality of capital requirements will make banks more independent of each other and thus more resilient in the event of a crisis.
in writing. the april part-session was marked by progress in the banking sector, with the adoption of two texts, which, under the impetus of commissioner michel barnier, respond to the challenges of european banking regulation required by all european citizens. the supervision of european banks continues to progress, step by step, despite some resistance, and the project of a genuine european banking union, which should enable us to cope with new financial and banking crises in the future, is within reach. i voted in favour of the capping of the bonus for bankers and in favour of the strengthening of the capital of banking institutions.
in writing. the report proposes to limit the exorbitant bonuses of bankers. that's a good thing. it is regrettable, however, that it does not propose to limit the remuneration on which these are based. the text also proposes to raise the capital requirements of banks beyond the basel iii ceiling and to leave some room for manoeuvre to governments in this respect. i regret that the margin of manoeuvre is so small and the ceiling so low. i shall vote for the few advances in this text.
in writing. i voted for this report which lays the cornerstone of the moralization of financial capitalism. the package of measures adopted by meps is the most ambitious banking reform ever proposed in europe. these new rules will apply uniformly to all the eu's 8300 banks. bankers' bonuses will be capped against their salaries at a ratio of 1 to 1 to reduce reckless risk-taking. banks will also be required to set up a reserve of 8% of equity capital easily convertible into cash in order to pay depositors in case of emergency, reassure customers and avoid bankruptcies. five years after lehman brothers, and thanks to the decisive action of nicolas sarkozy at the height of the crisis, europe has a responsible banking system that can finance the real economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the othmar karas report to provide the european union with a set of rules to strengthen the european banking system. the recent financial crisis has shown that international finance has lost all control and that banking institutions are no longer fulfilling their primary function: banks must finance the real economy by offering loans to individuals and businesses. this uncontrolled financial system has plunged europe into an unprecedented economic crisis. so we have learned from this crisis by adopting an ambitious reform package to boost growth, by facilitating lending to smes, the engines of the real economy. among the measures designed to strengthen our banking system, i also voted in favour of capping the bonuses for bankers.
in writing. i chose to abstain on the proposal for a directive on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. this text contains several elements which go in the right direction, unlike its predecessor, which was adopted in the form of a regulation. it stressed the importance of combating tax evasion and increasing the transparency of financial activities. this is more than necessary, in order not to repeat the financial disaster of 2008 it also encourages sustainable banking activities, such as mutual credit unions and cooperative banks, which primarily serve the interests of individuals, in particular through their members. it also denounces the excessive influence of external credit ratings on these institutions. however, the text was largely emptied of its content during the negotiations with the council. and many of these proposals are simply invitations, not binding ones, to the member states to increase supervision of banking activities. most likely they will continue to let the banks operate as they do today.
in writing. the reform of the crd iv proposed by the european commission brings the international banking prudential rules of basel iii into line with the european level in order to strengthen the quantity and quality of bank capital. i voted in favour of this report setting out the prudential requirements applicable to credit institutions and investment firms. the lessons of the financial and economic crisis must be learned if sustainable growth is to be restored and the battle for competitiveness won. the new regulation thus introduces capital requirements with a directly applicable regulation, in order to avoid divergent transposition between member states. this regulation is accompanied by a liquidity requirement by requiring institutions to hold liquid assets. in addition, in order to ensure long-term funding, a stable net funding ratio will be implemented to ensure that institutions have access to stable sources of funding. finally, member states will be able to impose stricter macroprudential requirements on nationally authorised financial institutions for a period of up to two years in order to address increased risks to financial stability.
in writing. i voted in favour of a package of measures to make banks more resilient, including capping bankers' bonuses, strengthening capital, and increasing supervision of speculative activities. this package of measures will also boost growth by facilitating access to loans for smes. the texts adopted constitute the foundation of a future banking union, providing a single supervisory mechanism, a deposit guarantee scheme and a new banking culture. it was a matter of being ambitious and showing that the european parliament was ready to move towards this banking union.
in writing. i welcome the fact that parliament today confirmed in strasbourg the agreement reached with the council on the most important banking reform since the subprime bubble and the start of the crisis in 2008. the french and european socialists have acted to win, after the introduction of the financial transaction tax, this new major battle in the long political battle against finance: the capping of bank bonuses, to put an end to the greed of bling-bling traders, is a socialist victory; the transparency imposed on banks to obtain details of their activities country by country is another socialist victory; the requirement of higher and better capital in banks to prevent the casino economy is always a socialist victory.
in writing. with this text, we will be able to create the conditions to guarantee greater stability for our banks and financial institutions, for the benefit of all europeans and our competitiveness, and therefore our jobs. i hope that these new rules will help to trigger a real change in mindset. i particularly support the emphasis on the protection of smes and start-ups in the application of this new regime.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis in which the european union has been embroiled for several years has highlighted the urgent need to regulate banks more strictly so that they are more resilient to uncertainties and more focused on their primary mission, the financing of the real economy. the european union has therefore drawn up a fundamental reform that should make it easier for banks to lend to businesses, to invest more securely in the markets and to be better equipped to deal with possible crises. european banks will now have to devote more of their capital to lending to smes. they will be required to have a larger share of 'own capital', reserves of non-virtual money, which can be mobilised quickly in case of emergency and which are intended to avoid the risk of bankruptcy. bankers' bonuses will be capped to reduce unreasonable speculative risk-taking. finally, banks will have to be more transparent, reporting to the commission their profits, turnover, taxes paid and the number of people they employ. this should eventually consolidate our business network and encourage production and thus the creation of sustainable jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of these texts, which represent a significant step forward in the establishment of a banking union. as the financial crisis has unfortunately shown, the economic and monetary union today lacks a banking and financial component in order to be fully effective and coherent. these two texts are already a first step, pending the actual establishment of this banking union.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of the two karas reports, which were supposed to adapt european and national banking law to the requirements of basel iii, and which were watered down by the basel committee itself a few months ago. the cap on wages is a good thing. but this does not offset other problems created by this regulation. i am thinking in particular of the increasingly disintermediated financing of the economy, the rush to deposit, and the very slow and very elaborate transposition of these same requirements in the united states. and last but not least, we know the objections raised by the banking sector against basel iii. and if he is satisfied with the compromise reached today, it is because it is not that good.
in writing. since 2008, a lot has been said about banks and their responsibilities in the crisis we are going through in europe. many also stressed the need to support smes and the real economy. but so far all these statements have been well-intentioned. with this text, which i voted for, we have just made a real breakthrough. firstly, in the transparency of the financial sector and the soundness of the banks. secondly, in support of smes and the real economy. this is a key point for a lasting solution to the crisis which has been besetting europe for too long. because without investment and support for those who create and innovate, we will not be able to reverse this trend in a sustainable way.
in writing. i supported this report which finally confirms the launch of a genuine european banking reform to better control and prevent speculative financial deviations. this reform package includes several significant and pioneering developments in the world. first, the bonuses of bankers and traders will now be capped and will no longer be allowed to exceed the amount of their fixed salary without consulting the shareholders. secondly, the text requires banks to be more transparent. they will have to publish the precise details of their activities in each country. third, banks will need to have a higher level of liquidity in the future to better contain the risks of bankruptcy and costly bailouts for taxpayers. finally, i welcome the fact that this banking reform provides for concrete measures for the real economy, for example by making it easier for european smes to obtain loans.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague othmar karas on the prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 595 votes in favour, 40 against and 76 abstentions. i welcome the adoption of this report, which will strengthen the prudential requirements applicable to credit institutions and investment firms in relation to the functioning of the banking and financial services markets. it will also ensure the financial stability of operators in these markets and a high level of investment and deposit protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of these reports, which are part of the reform package setting new rules for credit institutions and investment firms, because this is a fundamental issue and a key step in the reform of the european banking system. the measures adopted will prevent the abuses that led to the crisis, which completely paralysed the banking market, from happening again and will also help to stimulate growth. for example, capping bonuses for bankers (up to twice their normal salary) will discourage dangerous speculation, which has too often been allowed or even encouraged in the past, and will encourage banks to lend more to the real economy, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. the increase in the quantity and quality of capital requirements will make banks more independent of each other and thus more resilient in the event of a crisis.
in writing. the april part-session was also marked by progress in the banking sector, with the adoption of two texts, which, under the impetus of commissioner michel barnier, respond to the challenges of european banking regulation required by all european citizens. the supervision of european banks continues to progress, step by step, despite some resistance, and the project of a genuine european banking union, which should enable us to cope with new financial and banking crises in the future, is within reach. i voted in favour of the capping of the bonus for bankers and in favour of the strengthening of the capital of banking institutions.
in writing. this text is below the minimum requirements of basel iii. parliament is giving in to the lobbying of the banks. the banks will be able to continue to multiply their profits by any means: the very minimal leverage ratio that is supposed to limit these practices is not even on the agenda. the application of the requested liquidity requirements is postponed to 2018! i denounce these unacceptable retreats. i abstain in favour of the application of sanctions to banks which do not comply with the minimum capital requirements which they are required to have in this text. that's what he's all about.
in writing. i voted in favour of the othmar karas report to provide the european union with a set of rules to strengthen the european banking system. the recent financial crisis has shown that international finance has lost all control and that banking institutions are no longer fulfilling their primary function: banks must finance the real economy by offering loans to individuals and businesses. this uncontrolled financial system has plunged europe into an unprecedented economic crisis. so we have learned from this crisis by adopting an ambitious reform package to boost growth, by facilitating lending to smes, the engines of the real economy. among the measures designed to strengthen our banking system, i also voted in favour of capping the bonuses for bankers.
in writing. i have chosen to vote against the proposal for a regulation on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. regulating the way financial institutions operate is urgently needed to avoid a repeat of the 2008 crisis. this financial catastrophe has turned into an economic and social disaster for the people of europe and the world. the original aim of this proposal was to strengthen transparency, accountability and regulation. the council has stripped this text of its substance in the negotiations with the european parliament. in this text, there are no guarantees that economically and socially useful banking activities can be effectively favoured over sterile speculative practices. for example, there is no assurance that the rules will be different according to the 'risk profiles' of institutions. thus, a public bank financing projects of general interest could be subject to the same rules as high-risk credit companies. for these reasons i have opposed this deceptive text which purports to regulate financial activities. it does not in any way prevent the banks from continuing to act as they do today.
in writing. the rules on the organisation of groundhandling services at community airports (handling of baggage, cargo, cleaning and refuelling of aircraft) needed to be revised in order to improve the efficiency of these services in europe. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a cautious but necessary liberalisation of stopover services. on the other hand, this compromise establishes a system of quality standards that airports with more than 5 million passengers will be able to require from their service providers. these standards would cover the performance of providers (maximum waiting time for passenger check-in or baggage collection for example), training requirements, equipment (minimum stock of aircraft defrosting liquid, maximum time to defrost aircraft). the proposal also provides greater protection for workers. the text was finally adopted by a comfortable majority in the european parliament, after a first rejection for reconsideration in committee last december. the negotiations on the airport package will therefore be able to continue with the council.
in writing. the efficiency and safety of travellers depend on the quality of services and working conditions in ground handling services at airports. i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to encourage competition in the sector, to provide adequate training for applicants and to provide information and assistance to the millions of passengers who pass through our european airports every year. the text of course requires compliance with social provisions, including the obligation to apply the respective collective agreements of the member states, and the limitation of the use of subcontracting. the european parliament gave its green light to the negotiations on the text in the trilogue, where it will defend the social issues linked to the development of inland waterway assistance services.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is intended to continue the still too limited opening up of the market for groundhandling services in the european union. it is in the interest of the traveller to have a choice between a large number of service providers, stopover assistance providers. otherwise, the presence of a duopoly leads to higher prices and a lower quality of service. the compromise proposals put forward by the rapporteur prevent any massive and uncontrolled deregulation, which i am extremely sensitive to.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of the european commission regulation on the liberalisation of airport ground handling services. these services are already liberalised in france. the crucial point was the protection of workers' rights against social dumping by service companies, including subcontractors. handling companies and subcontractors are now obliged to apply collective agreements and to respect national laws.
in writing. ground handling services used by airlines, transport commissioners and passengers at major eu airports require a high level of efficiency in order to meet high standards of reliability, safety and environmental protection. the commission's legislative proposal on this subject, which was referred back to the committee in the december plenary session, has fortunately been improved and now allows progress to be made in finalising the 'legislative package' on airports. harmonised european rules including a time limit for baggage check-in and better information on flight delays and cancellations will now be mandatory for ground handling services. in addition, opening up competition to a third operator at seven of the largest eu airports will increase the supply of services and prepare the sector for increased international competition. this market opening must necessarily be accompanied by fair working conditions and adequate social standards for the staff of these service providers.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this third part of the airport package. this regulation allows users to benefit from better airport services. lost or damaged baggage, delayed flights, airports closed due to frost, excessive transfer times between terminals are all areas that will be improved. the text also meets the requirements of transparency in these markets by clarifying, in particular, the procedures for calling for competition. the measured openness to a third party in some airports opens up the currently regulated markets while increasing the attention paid to staff training, for example. the social clauses send a signal to the employees in this sector: let us put an end to monopolies but let us ensure that working conditions are preserved. however, i regret that the demagogy of certain groups has won the day by allowing the adoption of a promise to employees which cannot be kept: the ban on dismissals. while companies are calling for flexibility and increased dialogue, the rhetoric of such a measure will only cause disillusionment and a sense of betrayal of the policies when employees in the sector find that these measures remain contrary to national legislation and therefore inapplicable.
in writing. last december i voted to refer this text back to committee so that it could be reworked to achieve a better balance. the new proposal, which i supported, offers positive advances for this sector, and i think that should be welcomed. while providing important guarantees for workers, this text makes it possible to modernise a sector which sometimes has difficulty functioning. the reform will affect only the very large european airports, the smaller ones being preserved.
in writing. the air transport sector has developed considerably in recent years. the number of passenger flights, the quantities of cargo, are increasing sharply and it seems essential to regulate the activity more for obvious safety reasons. whether for the safety of passengers, the rights of workers or the sovereignty of the member states, this sector must be protected and regulated. unfortunately, the opposite has been done. the new directive even increases competition between service providers. this is an unbridled competition which always ends up hurting the safety and social conditions of the employees. it's a change of direction that the industry needs. yes, the public service must be given the means to take over these activities, to ensure better social protection for employees and the necessary and imperative safety conditions for both users and goods. for us it is obvious that the competitive process will lead to at least-so-called social for employees, and in its race to reduce costs, will endanger passengers. that is why i voted against the directive.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague artur zasada on groundhandling services at eu airports. this report is an integral part of the airport package. it was rejected by the european parliament last december and referred back to the committee on transport. the report was finally adopted at the april plenary session by 455 votes to 239 with 18 abstentions. the report has three objectives: 1. to reduce delays due to failure in the service delivery chain; 2. to improve the quality of services; 3. to end the monopoly situation in regulated airports.
in writing. with this regulation, the commission aims to continue the limited opening of the market for groundhandling services in the european union, which is hampered by the persistence of monopoly or duopoly situations at certain airports. the final version of this text, which had previously been rejected in plenary and referred back to committee, seems to me to be much more balanced. airlines will have a wider choice of providers at major airports, airports will have better tools to coordinate in-flight assistance operations, workers will benefit from social standards unknown in other sectors, third party service providers will have a single, common authorisation system with mutual recognition throughout the eu and passengers will benefit from minimum quality standards. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. i voted in favour of these new rules which improve the quality of services at airports. these include waiting times for baggage check-in, delays for baggage receipt on arrival, transport at the airport and defrosting services for aircraft. the aim of the text is also to introduce a little more competition between service providers to avoid monopolies, while imposing minimum standards that protect workers' rights. airports with more than 15 million passengers and/or 200,000 tonnes of cargo per year will therefore need to have a minimum of three ground handling operators. the text is part of an 'airport package' which also includes a revision of the rules on the allocation of flight slots and the limitation of noise nuisance.
in writing. the report aimed to endorse the liberalisation of ground handling services (gas), i.e. the outsourcing of services to air carriers at airports. allowing at least one third independent ground handling company to enter the market will result in further liberalisation and an increase in the number of ground handling service providers, with catastrophic social consequences for airport workers. this highly controversial text was referred to a parliamentary committee for the first time. unfortunately, this time it was approved, despite the opposition of the gue and thanks to the votes of a majority of social democrats, including french ones.
in writing. i supported this report which stresses the need for changes to the technical measures in place in the fisheries in the skagerrak, the strait between norway and denmark that connects the north sea to the kattegat and leads to the baltic sea. these measures need to be improved in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources. the rules of the member states and norway concerning technical and control measures in the area more than four nautical miles from the baselines should be harmonised in order to reduce the level of by-catches and to limit discards. among the proposed changes, the rules on the landing obligation should enter into force on 1 january 2014: the sale of juvenile fish for charitable purposes would then be prohibited and a remote electronic monitoring system would then be implemented.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by my colleague werner kuhn, which aims to improve control and enforcement measures in the fisheries in the skagerrak, the strait between norway, sweden and denmark. the aim is to reduce the level of bycatch and discards in this area in order to ensure sustainable fishing and thus the renewal of marine biological resources. the proposed measures concern the landing obligation, the treatment of juvenile fish, the nets used and the introduction of a remote electronic system.
in writing. i voted in favour of amending the fishing conditions in the skagerrak, the common fishing area between the eu and norway. in the absence of specific rules, discards and bycatches were very high, so the technical measures and regulations of the eu and norway had to be harmonised. the report is part of the eu's broader commitment to tackling marine litter, as part of the new common fisheries policy adopted by the european parliament in february.
in writing. i voted against the kuhn report introducing new technical and control measures in the skagerrak. although i think the rules in this area should be harmonised, this is not only because norway has been practising the landing obligation for 30 years. i would argue that the objective to be pursued is the significant reduction of discards as i advocate in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the amendment to make the electronic remote control system optional was not adopted. i am in favour of voluntary rather than compulsory video surveillance, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. continuous filming of people poses ethical problems, especially in the workplace. furthermore, while the skagerrak fishermen go out during the day, it is not difficult to imagine that this measure, applied to other fisheries in which the fishermen go out for several weeks in a row, would be all the less sustainable. the report adopted by the european parliament raises another major problem: it does not ask for reciprocity from norway, as norwegian fishermen refuse video surveillance as a means of control. this means that fishermen concentrated in a very small area will not be subject to the same constraints, which will inevitably generate tensions. i have therefore decided not to support this text: europe cannot be a house of correction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it will avoid the negative effects of the current fishing practice on the marine environment in this region. by making it compulsory to land fish caught in the skagerrak, the european union is ensuring a more environmentally friendly fishing and, more particularly, a sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on technical and control measures in the skagerrak which implements the ban on the discharge of unwanted fish species between the north sea and the baltic sea. the ban on discards was decided by parliament during the reform of the common fisheries policy last february. the technical provisions, which are based on a remote electronic monitoring system and are supported by european funds, will apply the measure to the territory.
in writing. i support sustainable fisheries management and therefore the development of selective gear to limit by-catch. the landing obligation is intended to encourage research and use of such craft. however, the objective pursued must not lead to the development of privacy-invading surveillance devices. the use of cameras in the city is insufferable enough not to import them at sea. i'll hold off.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which deals unequivocally with the issue of dumping at sea in the skagerrak. it is high time to put an end to 'disposal', the irresponsible practice of dumping fish into the sea on a massive scale because of their size or species, which exacerbates overfishing and is an unacceptable waste (we all know that most fish thrown into the sea die). we propose a gradual implementation (2014-2016) of a ban on the discarding of 35 unwanted fish species: fishing vessels will have to land the fish caught and minimise catches of unwanted and juvenile fish. automatic monitoring will be carried out remotely from electronic equipment, the implementation of which could be financially supported by the european maritime fund. another point of interest in the proposal is the harmonisation of our rules with those of norway. since the end of the international fisheries agreement in the region, european vessels will be required to respect the rules of the countries where they fish. the text could greatly facilitate compliance with these provisions, given that the country requires all fish caught to be landed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes a ban on the discarding of 35 species of fish with the obligation to land all fish caught in the skagerrak. the problem of discards is a recurring issue for european fisheries: the majority of unwanted fish - too small or out of quota - discarded at sea die, exacerbating resource waste and overfishing. however, the obligation to land all fish poses logistical problems for fishermen and may encourage a 'shadow market' of non-compliant fish. the text serves as a pilot project to prepare the fisheries reform after 2014 which is under discussion in parliament and the council.
in writing. i voted against the kuhn report on technical and control measures in the skagerrak. the proposal to introduce video surveillance to monitor the activity of fishermen is particularly shocking. i believe that it creates an absurd situation of unfair monitoring to ensure the control of a measure, the landing of waste, which is in any case uncontrollable and unenforceable as it stands. these measures are thus a profound restriction on individual freedoms and thus a precedent that must not be tolerated. i remain in favour of more selective and sustainable provisions in the common fisheries policy. in the skagerrak sea as in the whole of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we celebrated international women's day on 8 march and the european parliament took advantage of the march plenary session to adopt a number of reports and resolutions on women's rights. this new report, which asks the commission to assess the degree of transposition of the 2004 directive on equal treatment for men and women in the provision of goods and services, is therefore far from the first on the subject of gender equality. in the face of these numerous texts on the subject, i sometimes hear voices arising to assert that we have already achieved parity within the european union and that in times of crisis this is not the priority anyway. so i invite those who think this to do a very simple but very informative search on the internet. it is simply a matter of typing the phrase "women should not" in the search bar. it is then noted that the first word that appears in the suggestion is "work" followed closely by the word "vote". this, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is proof that the fight for equality between men and women is far from being won and remains a priority, including, and probably especially, in times of crisis. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. as a strong advocate of equality between women and men, i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which aims to assess the transposition and application of directive 2004/113/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between women and men in the access to goods and services. this was the first directive on gender equality outside the workplace. in this context, the european commission is requested to provide a synthesis report in 2014 on the use of gender in the member states as a factor in the calculation of premiums and benefits for insurance and related financial services. meanwhile, the european court of justice, in its test-achats judgment of 1 march 2011, created controversy by requiring all states to prevent the use of sex as a factor of discrimination in the calculation of premiums and benefits. i welcome this report which calls on the european commission to take account of cases of discrimination linked to pregnancy and maternity, which can lead to gross injustices in obtaining loans for women entrepreneurs.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the gurmai report, which is a step forward in taking gender equality into account outside the workplace. the test-achat judgment on the reference to gender in insurance services and the subsequent legislative adjustments at the end of 2011 led the commission to postpone the submission of its report on the implementation by member states of directive 2004/113/ec on equal treatment between women and men in the supply of and access to goods and services to 2014. we remind the commission that it must respect its commitments, since the directive is not limited to the insurance sector and had to be transposed as early as 2007. moreover, this resolution reflects our concern about the inadequacy of the commission's guidelines on equal treatment in insurance pricing policies. we therefore ask the commission to propose new legislation in line with the guidelines resulting from the test-achat judgment, paying greater attention to cases of discrimination linked to maternity, whether in the area of access to housing, access to loans or medical services.
in writing. this report provides an update on the implementation by member states of the directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between women and men in the access to and supply of goods and services. the report regrets that the commission has not presented its report on the application of the directive, nor has it shown in concrete terms the recent progress in the field of equal treatment between men and women. in addition, the report provides an update on access to loans and credit for women entrepreneurs, who face barriers based on gender stereotypes. i have voted against this report because of the discrimination based on sex. it is hard to imagine that such differences in treatment between men and women could still exist today.
in writing. the 2004 directive on equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services was a major step forward in our efforts to achieve genuine gender equality. it is essential to ensure that it is properly implemented. however, the commission has decided to postpone the preparation of its summary report assessing its implementation, which will not be available until 2014. i think that is a mistake and we should at least have had a progress report, to keep us informed of progress and the obstacles encountered, so that we can respond to them effectively and quickly. this report underscores this point. it also stressed that one of the key elements for the effective implementation of the directive was the proper training of lawyers. i think this is particularly relevant, and i am regularly campaigning for the training of gender lawyers, because they are the guardians of the effectiveness of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague zita gurmai because the fight against gender inequalities in the workplace and outside it must be strengthened. the differences in treatment between men and women in access to certain goods or services must end, and member states must comply with european law as soon as possible. i also support the proposal to extend the scope of the current directive to fill a number of gaps and to better prevent discrimination in relation to pregnancy and maternity, in particular in relation to housing, loans and access to medical services.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague zita gurmai on the principle of equal treatment between women and men in the access to and supply of goods and services. the report was adopted by 488 votes in favour, 152 against and 35 abstentions. the objective of this report was to assess the impact and the degree of implementation of directive 2004/113/ec, to identify existing shortcomings and to propose solutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs gurmai on the implementation of the directive on equal treatment for men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services. the report stresses the need for the commission to put an end as quickly as possible, by proposing new legislation, to the legal uncertainty created by the ecj's test-achats judgment on insurance services, which has the effect in particular of increasing insurance premiums for women. i also voted in favour of amendment no 1 because as a member of the lgbt group i want to see better consideration in eu legislation of gender identity discrimination as a ground for discrimination. i also voted in favour of paragraph 19 to include advertising and media which convey many gender stereotypes in the scope of the directive. finally, the fight against these stereotypes, which are ingrained from an early age, requires a great deal of awareness-raising in the educational world, which i think it is essential to support.
in writing. as early as 2004, the european union had promoted the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the provision of goods and services. yet, almost a decade later, no evaluation has been made to measure its effects. if we do not act quickly, the credibility of european legislation will be undermined, especially on a fundamental issue of human rights. in adopting this report, which i voted in favour of, my colleagues in the european parliament and i have therefore called for the rapid completion of this evaluation and for the strengthening of the rules on gender equality, particularly with regard to pregnant women.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the application of directive 2004/113/ec on equal treatment between men and women in the access to goods and services, following the controversy over the use of sex as a risk factor by insurance companies. discrimination on grounds of sex is contrary to the principle of equality as well as to european values and is incompatible with the eu charter of fundamental rights. it is essential that the european union provides legal protection against discrimination on grounds of sex, as against all forms of discrimination.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the state of play of gender equality in europe. the 2004 directive was a major step forward for equal treatment of men and women in access to goods and services. states had until 2007 to transpose it, and the commission was to report on its application by the end of 2012. however, there is still no report, due to a legal loophole in this directive allowing insurers to set differentiated rates for men and women, particularly for cars or health care. the court of justice has declared these provisions to be contrary to the principle of equality between men and women, requiring states to change their legislation before the end of 2012. these incidents show how long the struggle for women's rights is still going on, and the resolution adopted by parliament serves as a reminder.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the transposition and application of council directive 2004/113/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services. this report addresses gender equality and gender discrimination outside the world of work. when voting on this report, i supported paragraph 19 of the report which calls on the committee to include media and advertising content within the scope of the directive. it is necessary to combat the stereotype of the "woman-object" which is increasingly conveyed by many media and advertising.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and welcome the decision of the committee on women's rights to ask the commission to prepare its evaluation report on the implementation of directive 2004/113/ec on gender equality in the access to and supply of goods and services without delay. despite some progress on gender equality, the march 2011 decision of the cjeu, the test-achats judgment, finding article 5 (2) of directive 2004/113/ec invalid, which allows for a gender differentiation in rates for certain insurance premiums and benefits, is evidence that inequalities in treatment persist. it is to be hoped that the fight against discrimination will take precedence over the rules of the market, which are focused on ever-increasing profits. the ecj decision will have consequences for the adaptation of both national legislation and insurance practices to eliminate discrimination on grounds of sex. i particularly welcome the rapporteur's recommendation to include media content and advertising within the scope of the directive, given that inequalities are firstly fuelled by the gender stereotypes very often carried by the media.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i opposed the adoption of the svensson report on promoting the development of countries through trade. of course, the trade we have with the developing countries can and should be a driving force for them. but i think that as fair a trade as possible is one of the major levers of development under certain conditions. the svensson report contains statements which are simply false and which have prevented me from supporting it. i cannot accept that support for european farmers is guaranteed and that at the same time it is thought that this support is jeopardizing the development of these countries. it's not in line with reality. this casts a dangerous suspicion on our farmers. the food security of the european union depends on the support it gives to its farmers. the food sovereignty that everyone wants for the developing countries must not come into conflict with our own food sovereignty. i regret that this was the case with the svensson report and i regret that we have seen a perfectly binary view of development.
in writing. i am convinced of the potential of the european union's trade policy in promoting and cohering policies for development. the instruments available must be focused on generating positive spill-over effects at local, regional and national levels; on accelerating the diversification of economies and on more modern and more profitable production. negotiations on future trade agreements should therefore take place in a clear and transparent development framework, with an emphasis on achievable targets, monitored and validated by key indicators. in the light of future cooperation, i support this report which stresses that the private sector must be included in this cooperation as an additional guarantee of the sustainable development of these companies.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by my colleague alf svensson, which stresses the role played by the european union's trade policy in developing countries. the development of smes in these countries must be a priority. the eu must also ensure that good governance, which is essential for the development of a country, is ensured.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the eu's trade policy towards developing countries must serve to reinforce the results achieved by our policy. the eu's core values, as well as its treaty obligations, must guide its trade policy towards developing countries. to better serve development objectives, eu trade policy must focus on positive impacts on local, regional and national economies, as well as on promoting the diversification of developing countries' economies; it must also encourage more advanced and more profitable production. however, particular attention should be paid to possible imbalances in food sovereignty in both the eu and developing countries. that is the meaning of the amendments i tabled to this report.
in writing. i support the view expressed in this report that trade is an essential tool for development and that it should be used more directly for this purpose. i regret, however, that some of the passages in it may be harmful to our agriculture. i tabled amendments to restore the balance which i believe is necessary: the development of third countries is certainly an essential objective, which has positive consequences for our economies; but it is precisely in this spirit of complementarity of our interests, and not of sacrifice, that our ambitions must be achieved. i would like to stress that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. this parliament, which for decades, to make it more effective, has made the mordicus claim that globalisation and the liberalisation of international trade would bring peace and prosperity to the world, discovers some of its negative effects on developing countries: increased poverty, danger to local production, increased dependence on imports or exports of raw materials... to conclude what everyone except it already knew: the countries that have done so have developed by protecting their fragile nascent industries. it also expressed concern at the return of spectre from the mia, the multilateral investment agreement, through appeals to wto panels. if the agreement had been successful, it would have enabled investors to escape national legislation which might have been harmful to their private interests. today, multinational companies are trying to achieve this goal through case law. it's because the worm is in the wto's spoiled fruit. unfortunately, the report does not go so far as to call into question the very principle of globalisation as orchestrated by the marrakesh agreements. i couldn't vote for it.
in writing. this report contains good statements on investment policy and on the absence of automatic links between the effects of trade liberalisation and poverty eradication. however, it was considerably weakened in the plenary, almost emptied of its substance, by the conservatives with the support of the socialists and liberals. i abstained on this because the vote in plenary deleted several essential paragraphs. these included the export tax on raw materials (an important tool for developing countries to develop and diversify their economies) and the legally binding value of corporate social and environmental responsibility, which are essential to moving towards greater policy coherence for development.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague alf svensson, which was adopted in plenary. trade policy is one of the most important areas of action for the development of the countries of the south. in order to better serve development objectives, the report recommended a number of essential measures, such as promoting the diversification of the economies of developing countries and the need to provide targeted aid to promote and encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in developing countries.
in writing. i opposed the adoption of this report. the trade we have with the developing countries can and must of course be a driving force for them, but it must be done under certain conditions. the svensson report contained false statements which prevented me from supporting it. i cannot accept the argument that support for european farmers is detrimental to the development of those countries. it is not in line with reality and it casts a dangerous suspicion on our farmers. the food sovereignty that everyone wants for these developing countries must not be in conflict with our own food sovereignty, which is heavily dependent on the aid that the european union provides to its farmers.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the question of promoting development through trade, as it highlights a number of elements which i consider particularly important. i am thinking, for example, of the efforts still needed to achieve the millennium development goals (mdgs). i am also thinking of the principle of policy coherence for development (pcd); the eu's external relations policy should be based on the principles of the european union's external relations policy, including its trade policies and its economic partnership agreements (epas) with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. it is also important to remember that economic trade with developing countries must not be at the expense of their development, local production and regional integration.
in writing. developed countries have a responsibility towards those which did not experience an industrial revolution in the late 18th - early 19th centuries and are thus experiencing less development. the union is clearly aware of this. it is therefore using its commercial policy to promote their development. no one will doubt that this instrument is a driver of growth and a means of reducing poverty. that is why i welcome this report. i think that we must, however, remain pragmatic on certain issues. the principle of reciprocity in access to public procurement, the taxation of raw materials and the limitation of exports of raw materials to our territories must not be subject to too many concessions. the european union must also defend its own interests.
in writing. trade and investment, while they can be relevant means of development, are only relevant if they are adapted to the partner country's level of development. the eu has understood this well, and since 1971 it has been proposing a system of generalised preferences for developing and least-developed countries. this tool, based on general rules of the world trade organisation and recently revised, is also used by the united states, but too few other trading powers, especially emerging ones, use it. the report, to which i have contributed in an opinion and which i supported in plenary, contains simple but effective trade measures to promote growth in low-income countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on 'promoting development through trade'. the instruments offered by trade policy can have a considerable impact on the development of poor countries. trade policy is one of the most important areas of action for policy coherence in the development of the european union. the agricultural or industrial actions of the northern countries must not be allowed to penalise the southern countries, while we are helping them through the policy of development and cooperation. it would be counterproductive. we must therefore formulate trade agreements that allow developing countries to participate properly in the international economy and to reap the benefits of globalisation. the millennium development goals can only be achieved if the european union provides itself with the means to do so. this requires a courageous trade policy and support for the development efforts of the countries of the south, so that they can do without our aid and provide for their own people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's report on promoting development through trade. this report is better than the title, because it is about fighting against anything that can distort international trade to the benefit of the richer countries and to the detriment of small producers in developing countries. the eu's policies in this area are a vast programme, since economic partnership agreements with developing countries are far from synonymous with development for them. on the contrary, they are often the main cause of the destruction of local production in developing countries and of their growing dependence on exports. the eu cannot continue to lock the countries and peoples of the south in a role of suppliers of raw materials, but must instead allow them to limit and regain control over their exports. that is the meaning of this report. one can be sceptical (the word is weak as to the reality of its implementation by the other authorities). but if we stick to the content, we can see it as a sign that the european parliament is moving in the right direction.
in writing. trade between the european union and developing countries must be a sustainable and functional engine for development and growth for the next decade. this own-initiative report has received wide support in the committee on international trade. several key variables seem to me to be essential in the negotiation and sustainability of these trade agreements, such as fostering greater regional integration and cooperation and improving local governance within the developing countries concerned. the conclusion of these agreements will thus send a positive signal to third countries involved in these exchanges, inviting them to continue their efforts with the european commission in defining a comprehensive and mutually beneficial agreement. more generally, i voted in favour of this report, which contains asymmetric clauses which leave the developing countries the necessary margin of freedom to gradually adapt their economic systems with a view to integrating them more fully into world trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague tokia saïfi on how the effectiveness of trade policy as a tool for development can be enhanced. to achieve this, it is necessary to take account of the particularities of developing countries, especially the least developed, to continue investments while ensuring good governance, to better coordinate the various european initiatives and to take account of the progress made in the various sectors (agriculture, industry and services).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because we need to improve the synergies between trade and development policies. we must take into account the needs and capacities of recipient countries, and promote sustainable and inclusive development; create jobs and strengthen skills and human capital development while reducing social inequalities; it is also important to support the development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to encourage their participation in trade and investment at local, regional and cross-border levels. finally, we must step up our efforts to help improve budgetary governance, fight corruption, tax fraud and evasion, money laundering and tax havens.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report, which aims to put trade at the heart of growth. the desire to make trade policy more effective should also be emphasized. to achieve this, measures such as greater differentiation between developing countries, better complementarity between trade and development instruments, or, for example, increased public and private investment to stimulate growth in developing countries, are all ways which i support and which are highlighted in this text.
in writing. trade can be a real springboard for development, and europe can therefore provide valuable assistance to its partners by supporting them in developing their capacities. i therefore support the view expressed in this report that we should better coordinate our trade and development policies to achieve ambitious results. i support the measures proposed in this report because they strike a balance between supporting our partners and protecting european interests, particularly in the agricultural and industrial fields.
in writing. despite the budgetary crisis we are experiencing, it is necessary to continue contributing to the development of the world's poor countries. however, it is no longer appropriate to contribute to their development by simply providing direct financial aid. trade can now be a real instrument for development. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which incorporates the development dimension when concluding a trade agreement with a developing country.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mr tokia saifi, on the adoption of his report on trade and investment for development. it is clear that official development assistance cannot be the sole factor in the development of the least developed and developing countries. first of all, we must recognize that not all countries face the same constraints and obstacles to development. the differentiated approach needs to be strengthened. our trade policy can support the development of these countries, but they must also undertake the necessary reforms to improve investment conditions. this requires good governance and the implementation of social, environmental and labour standards and the respect of fundamental principles such as human rights. i believe above all that the trade and development link should not be a concept applicable only to trade relations between developing countries and the eu, but that it should also be promoted by other developed and emerging economies.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague, mr tokia saïfi, in the plenary session of 16 april. this very high quality own-initiative report was adopted by a large majority, with 521 votes in favour, 34 against and 71 abstentions. in this own-initiative report, tokia saïfi reviews the european commission's proposals to make trade-based growth a driver of sustainable development. the european commission recommends, in particular, that the differentiation between developing countries be strengthened, that efforts be concentrated on the poorest among them, that the complementarity between trade and development instruments be strengthened and, finally, that support for national reforms to strengthen good governance and the trading capacities of developing countries be increased.
in writing. i support this report because i believe it is essential to use trade as an instrument for development. trade measures are very useful tools to encourage the improvement of social, environmental and labour standards in emerging countries, not to mention respect for human rights. but the use of these measures must be adapted to the countries envisaged. we must therefore take account of the particularities and capabilities of each individual, for example by introducing asymmetric clauses in future agreements. at the same time, developing partner countries have a responsibility to provide the most favourable environment for the exploitation of the investments from which they will benefit. it should be borne in mind that the aim of these countries is to become sufficiently strong economically to eventually integrate into world trade.
in writing. we are preparing our position on the post-2015 millennium development goals. more than ever, we need to inspire solutions that have proven themselves on the ground! this is the direction i wanted to give my report, asking that the needs and solutions determined by the beneficiary countries themselves be taken into account. the ivory coast, for example, is a country which, in the eyes of all observers, has been able to catch up with its development lagging behind thanks to an innovative and systematic trade and investment policy. this is also the case for the financing of trade in development aid: in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, we must be pragmatic not only in the management of available funds, but also in the search for innovative financing solutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague tokia saifi on 'trade and investment, growth drivers for developing countries'. trade policy is one of the most important areas of action for policy coherence in the development of the european union. the agricultural or industrial actions of the northern countries must not be allowed to penalise the southern countries, while we are helping them through the policy of development and cooperation. it would be counterproductive. we must therefore formulate trade agreements that allow developing countries to participate properly in the international economy and to reap the benefits of globalisation. the millennium development goals can only be achieved if the european union provides the means. this requires a courageous trade policy and support for the development efforts of the countries of the south, so that they can do without our aid and provide for their own people.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on this report on trade and investment as growth engines for developing countries adopted by the european parliament. this report contains some positive proposals. it stresses the need for decent wage levels in global production chains and the importance of preventing speculation on agricultural products. but, beyond this expressed desire to encourage development in the countries of the south, certain essential conditions are not met. unlike the svensson report, which was voted on the same day on the same subject, this report does not address the need for social responsibility clauses in trade agreements. some of the provisions, such as the gradual removal of restrictions on agricultural exports, are even worrying in view of the current situation. today, trade liberalization is not synonymous with development, but is instead an instrument of domination for the benefit of the richer countries. the two accounts can be said to be somewhat contradictory. once is not customary.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the central bank, i would like to thank marisa matias for her report, which shows eurosceptics that the central bank did not remain passive in 2011. i'll go further, she was rather unorthodox, if i may say so. the commission has, through its public debt buy-back programme, helped to ease the situation on the sovereign debt issuance market. it has stopped a possible liquidity shortfall by its ltro programme 1 trillion in liquidity injection. it has kept policy rates low and thus helped to reduce tension in the interbank market and in the economy as a whole. i would say that the problem today is not monetary policy, which is relatively pragmatic, but rather fiscal policy, which is excessively restrictive. the other problem is democracy, and the two are linked. democracy, not only because money is a public good but also because the central bank belongs to a troika which demands the application of the austerity policies which are now being debated throughout europe. democracy is also necessary today because the central bank makes huge profits on the capital gains and interest income of the debts it now holds massively. one of the questions that our fellow citizens are asking is: what does the central bank do with these profits? does she stock them? why would you do that? does it redistribute them to the national central banks? what do these do? on the other hand, did the 100 billion cash infusion, which i mentioned earlier, feed speculation or did it end up in the real economy? the report therefore raises the question of the conditionality of future cash injections of this kind. mr president of the ecb, you have started to answer some of these questions in the monetary dialogues and we thank you for that. but we want to speak for all our fellow citizens who have questions like the ones i have just mentioned. there was a majority in the committee to echo the questions that our fellow citizens have in mind at a time when europe is going badly, and i hope that this majority in the committee will be widened. the epp group said that the report was balanced. i hope that with us he will show that parliament has a strong message to show that there are solutions to the crisis today.
madam president, mr draghi, regarding the balance sheet of your supranational institution, my attention has been drawn to the hypertrophied size of the assets, with over €1 trillion of bad loans and additional toxic collateral for a total of €3 trillion of assets. this new financial situation of the ecb is worrying because of its solvency ratio which is increasingly falling below the basel iii prudential standards. it is to be hoped that this balance sheet deterioration will not worsen in 2013 with the crisis in the european interbank system, at the risk that the ecb will gradually turn into a junk bank, that is to say a bad bank. we all know in this house that the makeup of national accounts to integrate this dead euro area is a goldman sachs specialty. but you will agree that it would be a bit disorderly for a so-called independent institution, the future supervisor of the banking union, to return to the states and the european taxpayers to recapitalise itself again. yes, i insist, i hope the response will not be even more financial repression, as was the case in cyprus, with the undemocratic blockade of the ecb, followed by the euthanasia of depositors and savers. the trend seems to be to confiscate savings and bank deposits, as was claimed last week by the ceo of the italian bank unicredit, mr federico ghizzoni, who believes it is acceptable to confiscate savings accounts to save the banks. so i say to you solemnly, mr draghi, and to mr noyer and your troika and goldman sachs cronies: do not think of launching a monetary or banking offensive on france to make my countrymen suffer what you have done in greece, in cyprus or what you will soon do in slovenia, because then you will find us in your way.
madam president, mr draghi, thank you for being with us today and taking the time for this exchange, thank you to marisa matias for her work. you have said a lot of things that we can agree with, including that the ecb cannot do everything and that governments have their part to play. i'm sure you are. at the moment, however, there is one thing that worries me, and that is the renationalization we are witnessing. we have a single currency but there are different interest rates from one country to another with implications for growth and for smes that we can no longer explain on the ground. on the other hand, you have praised the contract method. i am very concerned about the community legal order. when we built the european community, there was a legal order with the same rules that applied to all citizens, wherever they were. from now on, citizens will be locked into the national legal framework and their situation will depend on the contract we will make with the authorities. as regards the single supervisory mechanism, we have unfortunately seen that the powers of the european banking authority have been reduced to the benefit of the national supervisors. once again, you are right, mr president, but i think we must try to fight so that, alongside the power of the ecb, there is still a political authority which is capable of going in the direction of europe and not of renationalisation.
mr president, i take this opportunity of this crucial debate on the discharge to remind the commission of the conflict of interest. citizens' trust in the european institutions has never been so low, as conflicts of interest and lobbying are damaging the health of our democracies. we were very satisfied with the publication of clinical trial data by the european medicines agency and with the declaration of conflicts of interest by the experts. but the european greens will not vote to discharge efsa until our expectations are met. however, there is another arm we have not won. i wish to express my dismay at the commission's lack of transparency in relation to dalligate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. today, everyone knows that dalligate is opaque, but nothing is done to prove otherwise. the commission is losing face and it is not the code of conduct of the commissioners that will reassure us. this code of conduct stated, for example, that in the event of doubt about a conflict of interest, a commissioner could be removed from a case without resigning. that was not the case with john dalli. why would you do that? michel petite was reappointed for three years as head of the ethics committee responsible for assessing the risks of conflict of interest of european commissioners. but he's a lawyer for a big firm, which i won't advertise, and he's a client of philip morris. how dare you make such an appointment in the middle of dalligate? we're stepping on the head! i would like to inform you that the green group has asked the chairmen of the political groups in the european parliament to set up a special committee to deal with the problems of conflicts of interest in parliament and in the commission. this request was rejected by all the political groups except the gue/ngl group and the green group.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to join in the compliments that have been addressed to our colleague and also thank you, commissioner, and congratulate you on all the work you are doing for stability. this is a dossier on the financial assistance mechanism in the event of difficulties or serious threats to the balance of payments of states whose currency is not the euro. the basis is article 143 of the treaty, which provides for adaptation to states with a derogation. the limit is 50 billion, subject to macroeconomic adjustment and monitoring of implementation. you state in your proposal, commissioner, that this replaces certain measures concerning the excessive deficit procedure and the european semester by repealing the old 2002 regulation. i have three questions. first of all, the countries of the euro area. we have an international treaty between states, which is the european stability mechanism. you have listed all the mechanisms that justify this proposal, but what you have mentioned are mechanisms that are disappearing, such as the efsf, the european financial stability fund, the european financial stability mechanism. why, then, is there this legal basis of article 143? secondly, how do we link this to the treaty on stability, coordination and economic governance, since some states, including the united kingdom, are not states with a derogation under article 143, given that they have the full choice not to join the euro area? how do we make the link with the stability treaty? and how are you going to force the states to do this, with regard to article 6, with regard to this enhanced surveillance, when the states are sovereign?
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for a very substantive debate on this very important subject for the european union in its entirety. i wholeheartedly support mrs hübner’s emphasis on the need to keep the european union united. this was referred to in many interventions, including the one by mr olle schmidt in the course of your debate. it is not yet known what the critical issues on this matter will be in the council, as the negotiations have not yet begun. parliament’s position is therefore also welcome in order to move discussions forward in the council. i would like to take this opportunity to encourage the council to begin its deliberations on this issue. i also want to thank mr stolojan and mr audy for referring to the positive impact of the eu’s balance of payments assistance on the stabilisation and recovery of romania. in recent years hungary and latvia have also benefited from bop programmes. the experience of latvia illustrates this particularly well. when the crisis hit europe from the other side of the atlantic, it also hit latvia very hard. latvia was then supported by the european union through its balance of payments programme, as well as by the nordic countries and the international monetary fund. latvia implemented a bold and demanding programme of economic reform and fiscal adjustment and has now recovered. it has graduated from the programme, its economy is growing and we are also seeing good employment growth there. i am not saying that there are no difficulties; difficulties remain. it has been a very challenging adjustment programme. but at the same time, latvia has clearly turned the corner and is moving forward, thanks to its recovery and the support of the european union. today latvia is a serious candidate to join the euro area, thereby following estonia, which joined in january 2011. as regards the questions concerning the legal base, for example from mr chountis, this proposal is based on article 352 of the treaty, which implies the use of the consent procedure. mr audy had very pertinent questions and i can promise that the commission lawyers and dg ecfin officials will provide more specific answers to these important issues, which should be clarified now as things move forward. jag vill svara mikael gustafsson på svenska därför att ledamöterna gustafsson och schmidt pratade svenska i dag. jag ville säga att den solidaritet som eu-länderna och europeiska unionen möjliggör genom denna form av mekanismer avser att stödja de svaga länderna och deras befolkning. ekonomisk tillväxt och arbetsplatser kan enbart skapas och säkerställas genom ekonomisk stabilitet. det är det som är målet med denna reform också.
member of the commission. − mr president, may i thank mrs hübner, my former colleague in the commission, for bringing this debate here to the european parliament. i do not thank you for holding it at 10 o’ clock in the evening, of course. i know that you are not responsible for the timing, and i am happy to come whenever you call me. i will also be very happy if your committee wishes to hold a discussion on the regional aid guidelines that are being internally discussed at commission level. we will have a political debate on these draft guidelines at college level at the beginning of may. i have had discussions with the committee of the regions and with the economic and social committee. i have also held dozens of bilateral and multilateral meetings with representatives of the regions and of member states, and i will be taking part in some debates in national parliaments. so, if you wish, i would be very happy, in the course of the next few weeks, to discuss these guidelines with your committee in greater detail before they are adopted. in any case, we have sent the first draft to parliament, as we always do. as always, we ask parliament to participate in the public consultation together with many other stakeholders, but of course we – or i – pay much closer attention to parliament’s opinion than to other opinions. this debate has been an opportunity to improve the original draft of our guidelines, and i hope further improvements will still be possible right up to the last day – in fact the last minute – of the preparatory discussions. as i said, i would like to present the final proposal to the college of commissioners at the beginning of june. the member states and the regions have asked the commission for enough time to implement the guidelines before the beginning of next year. a number of issues will determine whether it will be possible for these guidelines to enter into force on 1 january next year. if not, that will trigger a prolongation of the present guidelines during the first months of 2014. one of the issues involved – which you have mentioned – is the need to ensure consistency between the regional aid guidelines, regional policy and the new framework for the structural funds and cohesion funds. this does not mean that the map of the assisted regions and the criteria should be exactly the same, because the purpose of these guidelines – to create a framework to provide compatible aid to some investors in some regions – is not exactly the same as the objectives, the priorities and the instruments of the structural funds. you know, much better than me, the similarities, but also the differences. i have been in contact, of course, with my colleague commissioner hahn, and our services have been cooperating a lot. it is essential to ensure that the proposed regional aid guidelines are consistent with the proposals for the cohesion policy and regional policy in future years, and i will try to do so. you raised two or three points that i want to address in particular. first of all, population coverage. in the original draft we reduced this coverage. in the present guidelines the total population covered by these possibilities of compatible aid is 45%. in our initial proposal it was 42%. now in the present version of our draft it is again 45%. because of the need to take into account the particular situation of countries in very deep crisis – and here i am thinking in terms of greece or cyprus – it may be that the final coverage of population will be higher in the new guidelines than in the present ones. but i do not think this is a reason to be worried, mrs hübner. second, aid intensities. it is true that, with the exception of the poorest regions, in the case of other assisted regions we are proposing lower intensity. why? for two reasons. firstly because, taking into account the whole of the eu, their regional disparities have decreased. and this is a good result of previous policies and strategies on territorial cohesion, regional aid for investors and many other elements. so regional disparities overall are decreasing, and we need to take this into account. the second reason is, however, more important in my opinion. we have increased divergences in the budgetary and fiscal capacity of the member states and regions that need to give subsidies to investors. if we do not reduce aid intensities – if we maintain the same aid intensities that were decided before the crisis, when the fiscal capacity was more evenly distributed among member states – it is possible that, instead of helping to reduce regional diversities, we will create an instrument that can increase regional diversity, because only those who have a very strong budgetary situation will use in full the possibilities of giving compatible aid to regions. this has been analysed and discussed, and i think that the argument is quite a sound one. and i can add another. in our experience, part of the aid that was given under compatibility with the framework in the past did not have a real incentive effect. that aid did not trigger additionality in the investment efforts in regions that are below the eu average in per capita gdp but was money that was given to investors who in any case would have invested in the same place, with the same resources. so we need to take into account this point in particular, given the extremely difficult situation of quite a number of our member states in terms of budgetary capacity, not only today but in the coming years in which these guidelines will be in force. you mentioned – and this is my last comment – the mid-term review, and i fully agree with you. i cannot remember right now how this possibility of a mid-term review is worded in the present draft of the guidelines, but of course a mid-term review, in particular during the period 2014-2020, is absolutely warranted, given the consequences of the crisis in terms of the different evolution of gdp per capita between and within member states. thank you very much.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the known outlines of this reform raise many questions and are not acceptable as they stand, especially for the outermost regions, which are at least three times as severely punished. the first is the proposed reduction in the aid rates for all the regions eligible at european level. the commission has also decided to reduce the bonus from 20% to 10% because it no longer seems to be taking account of the economic difficulties, particularly those linked to the remoteness of these regions. finally, penalties if operating aid in the ors for any type of enterprise is not renewed. we have reached agreement on this in the erdf trilogues and it would be incomprehensible if the commission decided otherwise for this regulation. we must nevertheless ensure that the various regulations are consistent. i would like to thank you, commissioner almunia, for your presence in this debate. it also indicates, with a little more clarity, the strengthening of the competition policy objectives to the detriment of those of cohesion policy in this regulation, but we would be very pleased to welcome you to our committee to discuss this.
mr president, commissioner, the question of regional state aid is a decisive one, especially in this period of crisis when, at any cost, we must fight unemployment and revive the economy. the commission's guidelines do not take sufficient account of the categories of regions, in particular, as has been said, the outermost regions but also the regions in transition within the framework of cohesion policy. the commission must also keep up the pace. yes, regional aid to large companies that relocate at any cost in times of crisis must be excluded. our primary objective is clear: to support innovative smes and the local economy. yes, we want to defend the anti-delocalisation clause to prevent social dumping. a beneficiary company should not be able to relocate by closing the site within 10 years of the granting of the aid. the aid is there to encourage job creation, not job destruction. it is now out of the ordinary for a beneficiary company to relocate without any reimbursement of the aid and subsequently claim additional aid from the state under the european globalisation adjustment fund when the site is closed. i say it clearly: europe must be at the service of the citizens, and you have said so. europe has a mission. it is this mission of social cohesion, this mission of economic, territorial cohesion. we must think globally, act locally and that is our responsibility in this house.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's logic for this reform of regional aid is simple. public funds are scarce, so taxpayers' money must be used well and aid to enterprises must be reduced and better targeted. however, i think we need to take a different, less liberal approach, because the text proposed does not respond to the real needs of regions and businesses. in many member states, the economic crisis has made the industrial fabric and smes alarmingly weak. public aid is therefore more than necessary to compensate for these shortcomings and the time is not right to weaken its impact. these aids are not intended for the rich regions but for those with disabilities. i am thinking in particular of the outermost regions, the border regions, the rural and mountain regions, which must be given sufficient flexibility to support the economic development of their territory. moreover, regional policy and state aid must go hand in hand and not be opposed. we have strongly advocated the creation of an intermediate category for regions in economic transition so that they receive more structural funds. the commission's draft map of these transition regions does not coincide with more favourable aid schemes. the commission is still too strict and prohibits aid to firms with more than 250 employees. medium-sized enterprises should be eligible. the crisis has also shown that it is in the public authorities' interest to support conversions and transfers of activity, which is not possible at present. on the contrary, such aid cannot, under any circumstances, promote intra-european relocations. the image of the union has suffered too much from the dumping of some products with the aid of public funds. the aid must be accompanied by an obligation to work in the territory and an anti-relocation clause. supporting firms in difficulty and investing in the competitiveness of regions are not incompatible; on the contrary, they are one of the keys to the recovery of growth.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it's inappropriate. mr szájer was present when the conference of presidents decided not to ask questions. we will then no longer have to meet and no longer have to make an agreement with you, because you, mr szájer, are not even present in a meeting, even though you are present. i don't think that's possible. (disturbance in the hall)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, there are reports from some seats in this house that hungary is the victim of some kind of left-wing conspiracy and that it is being accused of things that are not accused of others. all those who sit on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, in particular, know what is going on. we all know that fundamental rights are being violated everywhere in the european union and that they are increasingly being violated, as is also shown by the constant increase in the number of convictions of member states by the european court of human rights. but in a way, hungary is a case study. we have already spent a lot of time on this, in plenary, in committee, but also on the spot, since i was part of the mission that went to hungary, and i welcome the atmosphere of this mission. what we are dealing with today is the fourth amendment, that is, the fourth constitutional revision since the new constitution came into force in january 2012. four revisions in 15 months is a lot for a basic text. and i would tend to say that this shows the very bad conditions under which this revision was made. what is the subject of this review? on measures annulled by the constitutional court. and we are told that the court has judged only on the form. but it is curious that these provisions are now incorporated into the constitutional text and that they can no longer be examined by the constitutional court. what are these provisions? freedom of speech, the administration of justice, higher education, the rights of the homeless, the family, political advertising. i do not have time to go into detail, but those who have worked on this subject know that the content of these provisions is essentially outside the constitutional sphere. they are there - i repeat - only to escape any constitutional review. they are just the latest example of the aberrations of a regime which believes that because it has obtained a two-thirds majority in its parliament it has all the rights, when the opposite is true. on the contrary, it has a great responsibility. these deviations are all the more important since mr orban's government has been unable to stem the economic crisis that is affecting his country. 37% of hungarians now live in poverty. 600,000 unemployed people have no social security. the country has 20,000 to 30,000 homeless and is seeing a rise in diseases from developing countries. so, yes, one year before the next election, mr orban's record is catastrophic. and he's chasing the votes of the far right, which keeps rising in the polls. we know of others, we have known others, and others, who have the same practices. so, no, we must not accept these deviations, neither in hungary nor elsewhere in the european union. the rule of law must be respected everywhere and we lack the legal tools to do so. i repeat that the european union would be more credible in the field of democracy and human rights if it were capable of the same rigour as in economic matters. perhaps then we could talk about political europe.
in writing. i have followed very closely the statements by the council, the commission and my colleagues on the situation in hungary. i am deeply shocked and concerned by all the totalitarian excesses of viktor orbán's government. this situation has been going on for two years. two years on, the discussions, the reminders, the decisions of the court of justice, but the orbán government has not yet regained its senses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. this means that the hungarians, who have already been badly harmed by this liberticidal constitution, should also bear the financial burden of the state's violations of european law! we have to do something. the values of the union, the fundamental rights we defend, are being flouted. i am appalled to see divisions within parliament itself on these issues! i'm afraid that the frivolous is a bad advisor. let us act to put an end to these deviations once and for all.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, the agreement of a cypriot macroeconomic adjustment programme has been the focus of much energy and attention over recent weeks. i feel it is important at the outset again to recall that i am here as a representative of the council, and i am happy to be here in that capacity to discuss this matter. however, the discussions surrounding cyprus were not conducted under the stewardship of the irish presidency but rather under the stewardship of the president of the eurogroup. so, as i do not speak for the eurogroup, i am clearly somewhat constrained in the contribution that i can make to this important debate. i think there is very little – if any – disagreement that the situation in cyprus is extremely regrettable, and the human consequences of it for the cypriot people are the most regrettable elements of all. it is important to emphasise – and for us to note, i think – that the situation in cyprus was, and is, exceptional. a combination of a number of factors, including the size of the financial sector, the nature of the risks assumed and other issues, including supervision issues, left the country particularly vulnerable to financial market turbulence. when two of cyprus’s largest banks ran into trouble, the cost of recapitalising them was such that cyprus was left with little alternative but to seek assistance from other euro area member states. to resolve an exceptional situation, country-specific measures for a macroeconomic adjustment programme were agreed by the troika and the cypriot authorities, and subsequently by the eurogroup. i do not intend to comment in depth on those measures, but elements of the programme include a restructuring of the banking sector, an audit of the anti-money-laundering framework, fiscal consolidation and economic restructuring. on the basis of the programme, the euro area agreed – in principle – to provide up to eur 10 billion in financial assistance to cyprus, subject to the imf’s contribution. the eurogroup has since been able to welcome a staff-level agreement between cyprus and the representatives of troika institutions on the policy conditionality underlying the macroeconomic adjustment programme. national procedures required for the approval of the european stability mechanism (esm) financial assistance can now be launched. i understand that what is now envisaged is that a final agreement by the esm board of governors should be reached by the end of april, and that the first esm disbursement is scheduled for mid-may. clearly, the road ahead for cyprus will be very challenging. but this should not prevent us from recognising that these measures, however difficult, grant real assistance to cyprus – assistance which is absolutely necessary, both to allow cyprus the chance to get its public finances and economy back on a sustainable path and to safeguard stability inside the monetary union. this is both in the cypriot and in the european interest. while the news in recent weeks may have been about cyprus, it is true to say that the wider difficulties we have faced in a number of euro area countries have taken place against a backdrop in which financial turmoil has exposed significant weaknesses in our monetary union. as the presidency, as you know, our focus has been in advancing the measures which are designed to redress those shortcomings. this effort goes to the heart of the union’s efforts to restore stability. above all, this has meant working on banking union, work in which we would want again to acknowledge the central role and constructive engagement of the european parliament. in adopting that focus, our presidency has followed the lines of the priorities outlined by the european council. banking union is important because it will reinforce confidence in europe’s banking system and its supervision. it will also help to break the link between sovereigns and banks and to foster the reintegration of financial markets. during the irish presidency, good progress has been made on the banking union dossiers. to date, the capital requirements directive (crd iv) proposal has been finalised and the agreement on the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) is currently being finalised. political agreement on the ssm was reached at the informal ecofin council in dublin last week, where ministers also reaffirmed their commitment to the urgent completion of all the agreed elements of banking union, and this will continue to be a major priority for us in the weeks and months ahead. the setting up of the supervisor will also pave the way for the european stability mechanism to take on the direct recapitalisation of banks. the remaining elements of the banking union package include the bank recovery and resolution (brr) proposal, consideration of which has been accelerated by the irish presidency to meet the june deadline which was set by the european council for its agreement with the european parliament. bank recovery and resolution will lay the foundation for a single resolution mechanism, a detailed proposal which we expect to see published by the commission very shortly.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, as president barroso is attending the funeral of baroness thatcher today, i am presenting the commission’s views in this important debate together with my colleagues joaquín almunia and michel barnier, with whom we have worked very closely as a team over the past years. we are about to finalise a support programme for cyprus. it will enable cyprus to avoid a disorderly default, with all its dramatic ramifications for the cypriot people. this marks the beginning of a joint effort to bring cyprus onto the path of sustainable growth and job creation. the process that led us to this agreement has been very difficult, and not without mistakes. the cypriot authorities, the member states and the european institutions had to find unique solutions to exceptional problems. they had to do so without previously tested instruments and, in the final stages of negotiations, under enormous time pressure. thus, there are at least two key lessons to be learned from this difficult process. first, there must be absolute clarity about secured deposits. in this respect, the eurogroup and cyprus took rapid corrective action and underlined that secured deposits are indeed secured in europe. second, the developments in cyprus demonstrate the reasons why a banking union is a necessary element of a true economic and monetary union. we need a well-functioning single supervisory mechanism with a single rulebook to prevent the emergence of an unsustainable banking sector, as happened in cyprus. and we must ensure that, even if reinforced supervision fails, we have a single resolution mechanism to provide the instruments for a timely and effective restructuring and resolution of problem banks. but those instruments are not yet in place, and in this process we had to work with the less adequate ones that we have at present. the problems of cyprus had built up over many years. at their heart was an oversized banking sector that thrived on attracting foreign deposits with very favourable conditions. these capital inflows also contributed to a property boom and the accumulation of external imbalances. in fact the depth of the banking problems stemmed from poor risk management practices. lacking adequate oversight, the two largest cypriot banks were allowed to build far too concentrated risk exposures. it was the problems in these banks which caused the troubles for sovereign debt and the economic decline of cyprus – not the other way round. in november 2011, the commission notified the cypriot authorities that a financial assistance programme would be unavoidable unless the persistent economic problems were immediately addressed. eventually, cyprus asked for financial assistance, but only in june 2012. after half a year of talks, a staff-level agreement on the necessary structural reforms and fiscal measures was reached. many of them, including anti-money laundering measures, were adopted by the cyprus parliament before the end of 2012. the commission’s aim during the whole process of agreeing a support programme for cyprus has been threefold: to help cyprus onto the path of sustainable growth, to preserve financial stability in cyprus and in the eurozone and to protect the integrity of the euro and the single market. the commission’s preferred scenario was a more gradual adjustment of the cypriot banking system and real economy, while ensuring debt sustainability. however, there was a very firm financial constraint. the euro area member states were ready to commit official support up to eur 10 billion, whereas the total financing needs had been estimated at eur 17 billion. this constraint severely limited the options available. as time was running out, the scenario of the more gradual economic adjustment was not on the cards any more, unfortunately. the state of the banks deteriorated rapidly. soon it became clear that the second biggest bank, laiki, had to be resolved immediately. the risk of a complete collapse of the entire banking system – and thus a sweeping loss of deposits and savings and a disorderly sovereign default – was indeed very real. that would have been a disaster for cyprus and for the cypriots. without a bank resolution law and without a programme in place, the cypriot banks remained closed and the bank holiday was extended. the cypriot authorities imposed capital controls to avoid the flight of deposits. the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, is closely monitoring the impact of capital controls in cyprus. the temporary restrictions were justified in the circumstances, but they are a very serious limitation on the free movement of capital. therefore, the commission will ensure that these measures last no longer than strictly necessary. the support programme will enable cyprus to restore the health of the economy and to create a more sustainable economic model. i agree with the minister of finance of cyprus, haris georgiades, who said yesterday that he wants to shun the blame game and focus on the future. he said as follows: ‘we are determined to adopt and implement all those reform measures which we should have adopted a long time ago, but we failed to do so’. we now have to concentrate all our efforts to facilitate the emergence of new sources of economic activity and to alleviate the social consequences of the economic shock. the commission decided in march to set up a support group for cyprus to assist with the implementation of the adjustment programme. we are now mobilising our resources to provide technical assistance. the support group will rely on expertise from across the commission services. the immediate priority is to identify the relevant resources available from the current structural funds. the commission stands by the cypriot people in these challenging times; we are committed to help cyprus to get through the tough times and overcome the current difficulties. i trust that we can count on the support of the european parliament in together mobilising the available resources for cyprus, as quickly and as effectively as possible. mr president, i am looking forward to a forward-looking and constructive dialogue on the subject.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, the situation in cyprus is catastrophic. cyprus is now on the verge of bankruptcy and the cypriot people are suffering. the european parliament has been able to reach agreement on the broad lines of an economic adjustment programme, as you have just said. it is not easy to implement. everyone must be aware that the consequences for the cypriot people will be significant. without going into all the causes of the situation in cyprus, i would like to emphasize two of them. firstly, the manifest lack of vigilance on the part of the european institutions. there has been no effective intervention to prevent or limit the foreseeable risks of an unbalanced economy through the growth of financial activity. this sector is clearly oversized €120 billion in assets in relation to the island's economy, since it represents seven times its gdp. nor was there any effective intervention to counteract the decisions of the then cypriot government, which ended up concealing reality and evading all control by seeking financial support in russia. however, the effect of these subsidies was to increase the risks beyond what was reasonable. secondly, the particularly risky behaviour of the cypriot banks, which have made serious mistakes. for example, they bought up hundreds of millions of dollars of greek debt at a time when all the holders were rushing to sell it. at this point, we must, without complacency, learn from this crisis. in the absence of more solidarity and institutionalised transfer, the european union cannot tolerate economic specialisation which seriously jeopardises the situation of the country concerned. secondly, the european union must act in a transparent manner, but also with the will to explain and make these decisions understood by all citizens. the collective behaviour of the finance ministers has been a catastrophic fiasco. i'm not questioning the content, but the method of communication. the citizens perceived the foreground as a hold-up that could strike them all across europe. so how do you get credibility? the announcement by the eurogroup of the cypriot rescue plan was made under very bad conditions, which the emergency does not excuse. this has contributed to discrediting europe, european economic policy and the system of banking crisis resolution advocated by commissioner barnier. the european union can no longer tolerate a clear disproportion between the weight of one country and the predominance of a quasi-unique economic sector. that's a considerable risk factor. the cyprus crisis, after others, shows us that an economy with a hypertrophied banking sector is not sustainable in the long term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states do not specialise in a single sector of activity, unless there is a transfer, as happens in a national state. the european union's assistance plan requires cyprus to reduce its over-stretched banking sector. that's a good thing. structural reforms are also needed to build a strong foundation for the economy and return to sustainable growth in the long term. the banking union and the single supervisory mechanism must also be set up as soon as possible. the situation in cyprus shows that direct supervision of euro area banks by the european union is a key element in avoiding crises similar to the one in cyprus. the union must also deal with the difficult question of tax regulations which deviate from a reasonable average and create tax havens. tax harmonization is necessary. this crisis also shows us that we need to move faster towards more europe. more europe means a more profound europe, more united, but also better controlled. the necessary tools have been developed with great effort, as you mentioned, commissioner rehn, and they must now be used quickly and in a spirit of good cooperation between the states. our duty today is first of all to restore the confidence of the cypriot people through a europe of solidarity. we must support the cypriot people and in this respect we trust the new government of nikos anastasiades to put in place the necessary measures for recovery, with sound public finances and financial stability. to this end, the rules for the use of european funds must be relaxed so that these funds are quickly effective. and of course, mr vice-president, we share the commission's desire to use all possible means to find, within the current legal framework, the measures and resources that can be granted to cyprus, particularly in the budget under consideration.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not repeat what my predecessors have said on crisis management, because i agree with them completely. however, some questions remain. eighteen months! it has been known for 18 months that the cyprus crisis is imminent and that it will become more and more severe. eighteen months! during those 18 months, how much money could have been sent back from cyprus without being taken at the last moment? now, we have made decisions but i am sure that the smart people who went to cyprus to avoid paying taxes have gone back a long time ago. what about foreign banks, branches of foreign banks in cyprus? what did they do? because there are the cypriot banks on the one hand and the subsidiaries of foreign banks on the other hand, which are organizing tax evasion, not just in cyprus but on the planet. what's the matter with him? we have a new model in europe. after too big to fail, it's too small to bail. so here we are. mr rehn, let us stop talking about the sustainable economic prospects now. if you want to talk about prospects, there is a prospect for cyprus - it is not the only one, there is never just one prospect - but for that europe must mobilize. the prospect for cyprus is the unification of the island. this is an economic project: to give investors from the most dynamic economy in the region - turkey! - the opportunity to invest. turkish entrepreneurs will only invest in cyprus if there is unification. the economic model therefore requires the unification of the island, a unification integrated into the european union. that was the first thing. secondly - and this was said earlier - whether we like it or not as environmentalists, the primary economic prospect for cyprus is obviously gas and oil. the questions are: who and how? we help them because it's a prospect. so there's tourism, gas and oil. these are two difficult times because they contradict each other. there is a need for the unification of the island. and there is a need to arrive at a point where, precisely because our negotiations with turkey are progressing, the turks feel again drawn to europe and therefore have a much greater interest than the russians in investing in cyprus. all this development is to say that we all here must understand that the prospect of cyprus requires us to review our relations with turkey as well. it is no longer an ideological problem, it is a problem of perspective for a whole part of europe. it is true for the economy of cyprus, it is true for the economy of greece! the greek economy will only get back on its feet if it is integrated into economic development in the region. what is this area? what economic force can help this departure? this is turkey! you see that we have to go much further than simply discussing a necessary thing here, namely a new model for the management of banks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cyprus crisis has revealed the true face of technocratic europe. in a few days, behind closed doors, the commission, the ecb and the eurogroup have arrogated to themselves the right to block bank accounts, to spoil savers and to establish exchange controls in a sovereign state without even asking its opinion. mario draghi, president of the ecb, did not hesitate to arbitrarily close the international banking network between cyprus and the rest of the world. it is an unprecedented act in the history of european construction, because it is a real economic death blow to a sovereign state. it is, in the eyes of international law, an act of war. in order to keep cyprus in the euro zone, the unelected techno-structure has flouted all the european treaties. it has buried the principles of free trade and free movement without a shred of scruple. what would it have done if spain or italy had to remain in the euro area? suppressing democracy? threaten to invade it militarily? is this not the clearest demonstration of the absurdity of the european project? it can only be established by the negation of states and the suppression of freedom. the technocratic europe is a tyrannical and increasingly violent enterprise, an enterprise to enslave the peoples of europe. this is his real face! it is time, european peoples, to put an end to this evildoers' enterprise! it is time to see the springtime of the european peoples rise up against the european soviet union!
mr president, cyprus, the little switzerland of the mediterranean, is collapsing. the one that owed its prosperity to its banks. cyprus, less populated than the city of marseille, but with an exorbitant banking sector. the responsibilities are many and serious. the cypriot authorities, who in the past have been indifferent to the risky behaviour of the banks... good luck to the new government! the eurogroup then came along, revealing mr dijsselbloem's incompetence. taxation of the smallest savers could not be the solution, because it would undermine the confidence of savers, with the risk that brussels would set a dangerous precedent that would worry all the peoples of europe. the cypriot people are suffering. he's been suffering for a long time for reasons we all know. however, cyprus has promising economic prospects. but, in fact, she suffers from an inability to solve her score. but do we really want to solve the cyprus problem? the greek part of the island, deprived after 1974 of its agriculture and industry, had to develop its economy on finance and banks. we are all responsible, including our parliament, which prefers to play the paralysed game of solving nothing and not meeting the expectations of the cypriot people. to get out of the crisis, the island will have to find a new growth engine, but above all, the plundering of innocent savers will never allow it to come out of this crisis with its head held high.
mr president, the situation in cyprus has exacerbated the debate on the legitimacy of the troika's decisions, but it has also forced us to face the terrible fact that it is ineffective. can these three institutions - the ecb, the imf and the commission - which are involved in bailing out countries in difficulty, impose such austerity measures? can they propose actions that are so burdensome to citizens that they reinforce social injustice? in the case of cyprus, by refusing to exclude small savers from the scheme in the first place, purely economic reasoning was validated, leaving aside any principle of solidarity. the cypriot economic model was not sustainable, but the initially proposed restructuring, without the backing of parliament, could only lead to the suffocation of the population. today, the big issue is growth and employment for the cypriot population and, for the european union, the fight for the disappearance of tax havens and tax justice. that's where we'll play our credibility and legitimacy.
in writing. the cyprus affair has shown the true face of the european union: that of technocratic institutions capable of showing incredible brutality to put states on a pedestal, to save their monstrous creation: the euro! union and ecb have been playing pyromaniac firemen and the cure will soon prove worse than the disease. the announcement of a general tax on bank deposits, which is strictly prohibited by european regulations, hastened the fall of cypriot banks. under the unprecedented threat of financial asphyxiation, the cypriot authorities finally agreed to the collapse of the country's second largest bank with losses, for some creditors, of up to 60%. the country is now under capital controls to prevent massive capital flight. so, paradoxically, there are now two euros! the economic disaster created by this situation had an immediate tangible result: to avoid ruin, cyprus now needs to find not 17 but 23 billion euros! where? the cypriot government should have, as it had for a while considered, left the euro. if he doesn't, he'll inflict a bloodbath on his people that's as painful as it is useless.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the s&d group has tabled an oral amendment to amendment no 11 with the aim of reaching a compromise on paragraph 31. the oral amendment deletes the last sentence of amendment no 11. paragraph 31, as amended, would read as follows:'judges the current crisis to be of concern because it risks undermining the substantial efforts made by member states to complete their fiscal consolidation and crisis response strategy; notes that the severe economic crisis currently affecting several euro area member states has negative economic and budgetary consequences, such as effects on tax revenues and social spending in these countries and an exacerbation of their public debt problems; " i hope you will be able to support this oral amendment, which will enable us to obtain a large majority in favour of this report.
mr president, i would like to make a comment on rule 213 of the rules of procedure. we have had a remarkable speech by a head of state, the president of the republic of ireland, and this article provides for the anthem to be played at our formal meetings and, in particular, when we receive heads of state. we have had several occasions where heads of state have made remarkable speeches and the national anthem has not been played. is there a change in the application of the regulation on respect for the union symbols?
in writing. the european parliament, by virtue of its status as the discharge authority, is required to approve the expenditure of the union's annual budget. the european parliament thus gives the european commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget, in the light of the reports of the court of auditors and the recommendations of the finance ministers meeting within the council of the european union. at the end of each financial year, meps decide to grant, postpone or refuse this discharge, which is essential for the official closure of the institutional accounts. i voted in favour of this report on the discharge to be given to the commission and the executive agencies in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011. it regretted the fall in the error rate from 3.7% in 2010 to 3.9% in 2011 and shared management not always sufficiently efficient and made priority recommendations to improve this situation.
in writing. since the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's budgetary powers have been strengthened. in procedural terms, discharge represents parliament's final check on the proper implementation of the budget. this right of scrutiny enables parliament to ensure that public money is being managed properly. in this case, the european court of auditors publishes an annual report examining the eu's finances. on the basis of this report, the european parliament shall decide whether or not to grant discharge for a given year. the geier report, which i have approved, concerns the commission's discharge for 2011.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the commission's budget. the commission implements the eu budget and it is up to parliament to give it discharge for the previous financial year. parliament can accompany the discharge with recommendations, which we have done by recommending that the accountability of the management of union funds by national authorities and agencies be improved. we have nevertheless pointed out that the error rate has increased from 3.7% in 2010 to 3.9% in 2011 and this trend should not continue. in addition, many errors were identified in the shared management of the european budget between the member states and the commission, and an effort by the commission was therefore requested (better reporting of results).
in writing. the council was refused a vote on its discharge for the implementation of its budget in 2009. the treaty provides that the european parliament is the budgetary control authority and the only one entitled to give discharge. the council must therefore provide parliament with any information it deems useful. by refusing to answer our questions, the council is in effect refusing to inform european citizens about how it manages the money entrusted to it by european taxpayers. to grant discharge, we need access to the accounts. as long as the council refuses to comply with it, the european parliament cannot give discharge. this is the very principle of democratic control which our parliament must exercise.
in writing. for the 18th time in a row, the court of auditors has been unable to issue a positive and unreserved statement of assurance on the way in which the budgets devoted to european policies are managed. the commission conveniently hides behind the responsibility of the states, which are supposed to manage the expenditure with it. but it is enough to read the report, and some others of the fifty we are voting on today, to see that the commission, or the agencies still directly attached to it, is not without its own flaws: complexity of policies, waste, waste, mismanagement, lack of control, problems of management and recruitment of staff, and even, in a few cases, doubts about the legality and regularity of the underlying operations... as for performance, i.e. the real usefulness of expenditure and its added value in relation to national actions, it seems to be very difficult to assess. i would tend to think that it is not evaluated for fear of having to conclude that it does not exist. this is a lot for an institution that is trying to lecture the member states on budgetary management, or to dictate it to them. at least enough to make me not vote for discharge.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the commission's operating budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the discharge to the european commission which points out the shortcomings in the member states' controls. 80% of the union's budget is spent via the national authorities through the cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy. these are not sufficiently effective to detect errors in the allocation of european contributions.
in writing. the court of auditors has identified regular error rates for many of the funding managed by the european commission. i would point this out to the commissioners who are constantly denouncing the mismanagement of the budgets of the member states and who are trying to control them. that alone would be sufficient to refuse my vote for this text. but it also supports the europe 2020 strategy and the esm. two major economic setbacks. i therefore vote against it.
in writing. the european parliament is the single discharge authority for the annual eu budget and the european development fund. at the end of each financial year, meps decide to grant, postpone or refuse this discharge, which is essential for the official closure of the institutional accounts. i voted in favour of this report on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's discharge for 2011. the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011 indicates that the accounts present the financial situation of the eu accurately. however, it is necessary to point out certain error rates in payments: it is essential that the management of union funds be improved in the future and that control systems be strengthened to this end.
in writing. since the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's budgetary powers have been strengthened. in procedural terms, discharge represents parliament's final check on the proper implementation of the budget. this right of scrutiny enables parliament to ensure that public money is being managed properly. in this case, the european court of auditors publishes an annual report examining the eu's finances. on the basis of this report, the european parliament shall decide whether or not to grant discharge for a given year. the geier report, which i have approved, concerns the commission's discharge for 2011.
in writing. the accounts presented present a true and fair view of the financial position of the european union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year 2011. i therefore voted in favour of these reports detailing the commission's implementation of the budget of the european union.
in writing. this report endorses several of the policies pursued and financed by the european union, from food aid in africa to the decommissioning of nuclear power stations to the eu's wine policy, etc. this is ridiculous. he's always bragging about himself and never bringing up the real issues. it is a fact that under the pretext of the necessary dismantling of some of the most dangerous nuclear power stations, new ones are being financed. it also endorses the arrangements for granting transferable fishing rights under the common fisheries policy. i am voting against and denouncing this absurd vote by a large majority.
in writing. the european parliament is the single discharge authority for the expenditure of the eu's annual budget. in order to check that the public money of each european taxpayer is used in the best possible way, the discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, the european parliament, on the basis of the annual report published by the court of auditors and on the recommendation of the council of the european union, has the power to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget, that is to say, to close a financial year. parliament may then grant discharge, postpone discharge or refuse to grant it. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to give the president of the european parliament discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2011. this discharge forms the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ortiz vilella report on the implementation of the budget and discharge for the financial year 2011. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. this control helps to ensure the proper use of public money while highlighting areas for improvement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge to be given to the president of the parliament in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2011. i voted against the proposal to amend the treaty of lisbon on the seat of the institutions, which sought to establish the single seat of parliament in brussels. thanks to our epp votes, this single seat proposal was rejected.
in writing. the question of a single seat for the parliament in brussels would have been sufficient on its own to justify a rejection of the discharge. but, alas, there is also the disgusting indulgence of the members towards themselves, despite, for example, the calamitous and very expensive house of european history. in addition, in the same vein as the ridiculous "heritage of ministers" operation in france, some requests for a rare demagogy on the use of certain budgets by meps. it is true that those who submit such texts do so only because they are absolutely certain that they will be rejected. i also take this opportunity to mention that i voted in favour of postponing the council's budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. our parliament has spoken at this plenary session on the discharge of all the institutions and agencies of the european union. among these many votes, i would like to highlight my vote against the approval of the execution of the 2011 budget by the council of ministers: we ask the council for more cooperation on budgetary information. i would also like to refer to several important amendments which were voted on during the vote on discharge to our european parliament. firstly, for clear reasons of transparency and accountability, i voted in favour of the online publication and auditing of members' overheads and in favour of members' access to internal audit reports. secondly, i voted against the amendments to abolish europarl tv and for a price ceiling on lux. finally, i voted decisively against the amendments calling for a single seat for the european parliament. we are again dealing with attacks on the strasbourg headquarters. i strongly advocate its maintenance, not only for historical and symbolic reasons, but above all in the name of the principle of diversity of the european union.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of our parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's discharge for the financial year 2011. almost 40 billion in savings in parliament's management in 2011 were decided in september 2011 by the representatives of the bureau and the committee on budgets. 2011 also marks the implementation of the members' code of conduct on their financial interests. meps are required to disclose fully all paid activities outside parliament and all positions which may give rise to conflicts of interest.
in writing. this report gives a discharge to the european parliament's budget. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism. either the members who drafted this text do not work very often or their group has a considerable number of translators! the texts which the commission transmits are mostly in english and not translated. translations always arrive too late to negotiate resolutions in any language other than english. the written and oral contributions of each speaker are now available only in their original language. these are not acceptable working conditions. i vote against it.
in writing. the european parliament is the single discharge authority for the annual eu budget and the european development fund. i support the agreement reached by the committee on budgetary control approving the 2011 expenditure of the european development fund and the administrative expenditure of the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i voted to discharge the budgets of the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs. in this vote i have approved the use by the commission of funds allocated to the economic, social and human development of the african, caribbean and pacific states. as an alternate member of the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i am sensitive to the good use of the edf to put in place real country and regional strategies.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european development funds (edf).
in writing. this report looks at the european development fund currently linked to the cotonou agreements. it could say nothing about free trade agreements and limit itself to the specific aspects of development aid alone. in this case the drafters would be forgiven for not saying that the commission is using this same development aid to blackmail the acp countries who refuse to ratify an economic partnership agreement (epa). but the text does not even have the decency to be silent about its support for epas and wto rules. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of postponing the discharge to the council. the european parliament does not have enough information to make a thorough assessment of the council's accounts. how can we justify such a lack of transparency? why hide his accounts from european citizens? the council justifies this refusal of cooperation by an informal agreement between the two institutions in the 1970s, which is not the case. this lack of transparency and openness on the part of the council is particularly damaging in this '2013 year of the citizen' when the representatives of the europeans should be able to control the action of the council's political leaders, especially in the use of the funds entrusted to it as an eu institution.
in writing. as every year, the european parliament refused to grant discharge to the council for failure to cooperate. the council has still not taken into account the fact that the parliament is also the eu's budgetary authority. by refusing to provide the documents necessary for the examination of expenditure, the council shows that it has not yet entered into a standardised interinstitutional cooperation relationship with parliament. the granting of discharge is an important moment in institutional life; it's not a given, we see it every year. today we are deciding on no less than 50 landfills! the council must realise that the treaty of lisbon has indeed entered into force.
in writing. i voted against the draft discharge in the council because i believe that this institution does not play the game of transparency vis-à-vis the other institutions and the eu citizens. the council has not answered questions about the use of funds when it should be fully accountable to the citizens for the use of funds and participate in good faith in the annual discharge procedure. we have therefore asked the council to submit a second report which we will consider in the autumn.
in writing. the council was refused a vote on its discharge for the implementation of its budget in 2009. the treaty provides that the european parliament is the budgetary control authority and the only one entitled to give discharge. the council must therefore provide parliament with any information it deems useful. by refusing to answer our questions, the council is in effect refusing to inform european citizens about how it manages the money entrusted to it by european taxpayers. to grant discharge, we need access to the accounts. as long as the council refuses to comply with it, the european parliament cannot give discharge. this is the very principle of democratic control which our parliament must exercise.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european council.
in writing. this report refuses to give a quitus to the 2011 discharge of the european council and the council. the expenditure of the two institutions was not presented separately, making any serious study impossible. the council also refuses to answer questions from the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, unlike the other institutions. a blow from the teams that strangle the people with their injunctions to control their management of public affairs. i am voting for this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the court of justice. it highlights the consequent increase in the number of pending cases and calls for action to be taken to remedy this.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2011 discharge of the court of justice. in approving this report, we have validated the use of the european budget by the court of justice, while at the same time alerting the institution to the considerable increase in the number of pending cases.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the court of justice.
in writing. this report gives discharge to the court of justice of the european union. it welcomed the efforts made to develop interpreting within the institution. it rightly deplored the slow pace of the institution and the number of pending cases. i am voting for this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the court of auditors. it seems to me essential to point out, however, some shortcomings, such as a geographical distribution of the management staff which is not sufficiently representative.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2011 discharge of the court of auditors. in approving this report, we have validated the use of the european budget by the court, while indicating that a better geographical distribution of the management staff would be desirable.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the court of auditors' budget.
in writing. this report gives discharge to the eu court of auditors. it is not at all shocked that one of the four major global audit firms (pricewaterhouse coopers) is auditing its accounts. the fact that these private firms have proved their utter inefficiency in validating the accounts of banks like lehman brothers does not alarm them. it does not even require a joint audit, carried out by two different bodies. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i welcome the granting of discharge to the european economic and social committee (eesc). the committee has distinguished itself by reforming its financial rules on reimbursement, in particular by paying transport costs on the basis of actual costs alone. it should be noted that the eesc has also published the declarations of financial interests of its members.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2011 discharge of the european economic and social committee. in approving this report, we have validated the use of the european budget by ecosoc. we also welcomed the financial reforms undertaken by the committee in the area of reimbursement and publication of declarations of financial interests of its members.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. i support the discharge to the committee of the regions, but in future it should publish online the declarations of financial interests of its members.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2011 discharge of the committee of the regions. in approving this report, we have validated the use of the european budget by the committee of the regions. the committee has fulfilled its requirements in terms of transparency, and we now want it to go further by making public the declarations of financial interests of its members.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the committee of the regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section viii - european ombudsman. however, in the long term, it is essential to limit the average duration of the european ombudsman's inquiries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2011 discharge of the european ombudsman. in approving this report, we have validated the use of the european budget made by the european ombudsman. we have, however, alerted the body to the worrying increase in the length of investigations in 2011, when its effectiveness depends on its ability to react quickly to the problems faced by european citizens.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european ombudsman.
in writing. the european data protection supervisor was established in 2001. it is responsible for supervising the institutions and bodies of the european union, which are required to respect the privacy of the data of natural persons they process. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2011 discharge of the european data protection supervisor. in approving this report, we have validated the use of the european budget which has been made for this body.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit was satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. the european parliament has for the first time this year given discharge to the european external action service. the difficulties encountered, which are quite natural in view of its recent implementation, should not be repeated in the future. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2011 discharge of the european union external action service. this was the first time that parliament had to give a discharge to this new body created by the lisbon treaty. although we approved the use of accounts, we alerted the eeas to the need to reduce its administrative burden and highlighted the difficulties in setting up the service.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european external action service.
in writing. the report notes payment errors, questionable fees and a significant number of temporary employees who are uncertain of their employment. this is a great deal for an institution which has so far failed to demonstrate its need for it. i am voting against this text to reiterate my rejection of this institution and to denounce the wage practices which are taking place there.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies, which was finally adopted by the european parliament. this report highlights the importance of the tasks carried out by eu agencies. in general, it commends the agencies for their sound financial management and for the good cooperation between the eu bodies. the report also highlights the court of auditors' audit work, which is well-detailed and has revealed problems affecting certain agencies, particularly in the area of commitment of expenditure.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge on the performance, financial management and control of the european union agencies. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. with the exception of a few newly created or decentralised agencies, we are entitled to the same reports on the eu agencies every year. we are entitled above all to the recurrent findings of the same types of dysfunctions, the same conflicts of interest, the same redundancies or duplications, the same types of wastefulness which give the impression that most agencies have no other function than to spend taxpayers' money to justify their existence. even europol and eurojust are not without their critics. i mean, come on! and yet, year after year, this parliament gives these agencies a discharge for their management, hoping that things will be better the following year. and it's not getting any better. i refuse to be an accomplice to this charade.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the performance of the agencies. i welcome the fact that the european court of auditors has given more detail to its audit reports for the financial year 2011 on the agencies. these elements are essential for the proper functioning of parliament's monitoring of these independent bodies financed by the eu. the report identifies challenges in the administration of the many eu agencies, which also need to streamline their operations. the constraints of the european financial regulation appear ill-suited to these smaller structures.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
in writing. i support this report, which stresses the relevance of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to grant discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union.
in writing. the translation centre of the european union has 210 staff members. this is clearly not enough to cover all the translations needed for the functioning of the european institutions. add to this the fact that the centre does not depend directly on the eu budget but depends on the requests for benefits from the european institutions which themselves reduce their translation expenditure, and you can see why we are not able to work properly. i am not condemning the way the centre's budget is being implemented. it is its independence from the rest of the institutions and the lack of resources actually allocated to it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european centre for the development of vocational training. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop).
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college (cepol) for the financial year 2011. i would like to stress that cepol should be relocated from the united kingdom to the netherlands, to enable it to share its infrastructure and services with the european police office, which is located in the hague. i would like to see more cooperation between these three agencies, particularly in such vital areas as education and training.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european police college. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular. we have also validated the relocation of cepol from the uk to the netherlands to allow it to share its infrastructure and services with the european police office in the hague.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european police college.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european police college because the agency has made the necessary efforts to streamline its budgetary and financial management. i would like to congratulate the agency which has even exceeded parliament's expectations by reducing its operating costs considerably. this is a responsible attitude, which is to be commended. i regret the european commission's decision to propose the merger of cepol with europol.
in writing. this report welcomes the efforts of the european police college (cepol), to which parliament had to refuse discharge in previous years. this time the committee on budgetary control seems to have wanted to encourage the effort. it is clear, however, that there are some missing elements in the files. the text calls for them. in the absence of the requested information, i do not think it is right to give cepol's budget a free hand. i therefore vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european banking authority. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. the report shows that the european banking authority, which is supposed to supervise european banks, has other shortcomings than those we already know: it is in the hands of the european commission, it is based in london, a stone's throw from the city, and it has not shown the slightest efficiency. the recruitment procedures are not transparent at all, according to the report. that's a lot. too much for me to swallow.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european centre for disease prevention and control. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european chemicals agency. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. the european environment agency (eea) provides independent information on the environment for policy-makers in the european union and the member states. the agency plays a key role in issues that we regularly address in the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, such as biodiversity, air and climate change. as a governor of the world water council, i am extremely sensitive to water issues, one of the eea's main areas of expertise. i regret, however, that the agency failed to do its duty by not providing sufficient information about its relations with the danish video production agency ace & ace, which seems to have won a public contract with particularly strict criteria, without any real competition. the eea was investigated by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) in connection with these video production contracts. however, as these problems predate the 2011 financial year, i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for that financial year.
in writing. against the report of the committee on budgetary control, i voted to grant discharge to the european environment agency. unlike last year, it seemed to me that this time the arguments put forward by some to postpone the discharge were not convincing enough. following the action of the european parliament last year, efforts to improve transparency and progress in the fight against conflicts of interest were made in the agencies with the most problems. the eea is still being investigated by olaf, which is due to report back this month. parliament is fully exercising its role as budgetary authority and is helping to streamline the functioning of the agencies.
in writing. i voted against the discharge for the european environment agency for the financial year 2011. the agency is being investigated by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) on suspicion of illegal award of public contracts in copenhagen. pending olaf's report, due at the end of the month, the discharge has not been approved.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the european environment agency is currently under investigation by the european anti-fraud office (olaf). in these circumstances, i did not wish, as did the majority of my colleagues, to give discharge to this agency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european fisheries control agency. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european fisheries control agency.
in writing. in the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i specialised in issues relating to food and animal safety, in particular through my report on beef labelling. so i have been in contact several times with the european food safety authority (efsa). the agency is the cornerstone of the european union in the assessment of food safety risks. in close cooperation with national authorities and in open consultation with stakeholders, efsa shall provide independent scientific advice and clear communication on existing and emerging risks. in view of the sound management of the 2011 financial year, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority.
in writing. unlike my vote on the european environment agency, i voted against the discharge to efsa. last year, on the day we voted on discharge, the chairwoman of the agency's board of directors resigned. serious concerns about conflicts of interest within the agency led parliament to reject the discharge of efsa. since then, improvements have been made, new rules reinforcing the agency's independence have been introduced and efforts have been made to combat conflicts of interest. however, the agency continues to pose a problem: the links between efsa members and industry persist, the agency's assessments - particularly with regard to gmos - continue to be based solely on tests carried out by the manufacturers themselves. because efsa is fishing for lack of transparency and independence, i voted against the discharge.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european food safety authority. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular. the role of this agency is particularly important in setting up stricter controls on elected officials and in reassuring our citizens about the traceability of food.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european food safety authority.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for efsa. some agencies, including efsa, need to be particularly careful about managing conflicts of interest. the agency produces independent scientific analyses and works with the support of experts who may have links to the agri-food industry. the agency has adopted a policy on the prevention of conflicts of interest. parliament is also looking at this issue at the level of the european union institutions.
in writing. equality between men and women is a fundamental right enshrined in the lisbon treaty and a priority policy of the european union which is essential to me in order to build a more just and united society. however, further progress is needed to achieve real equality between women and men at every stage of life and in all spheres, both private and professional. the european institute for gender equality is thus tasked with helping the european institutions and the member states to integrate the principle of equality into their policies and to combat discrimination on grounds of sex. as a result, the european institute for gender equality plays an important role in providing the expertise required to develop measures for gender equality throughout the eu. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european institute for gender equality. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to grant discharge to the budget of the european institute for gender equality.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
in writing. i support this report which gives discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european institute of innovation and technology. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2000-06.
in writing. the european medicines agency, based in london, aims to protect and promote public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary use. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am particularly sensitive to public health and food safety issues and strongly support this report which gives the european medicines agency a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget in 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european medicines agency. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european medicines agency.
in writing. i voted in favour of discharge for the ema. some agencies, including the ema, need to be particularly careful about managing conflicts of interest. the agency produces independent scientific analyses and works with the support of experts who may have links to the pharmaceutical industry. the agency has adopted a policy on the prevention of conflicts of interest. parliament is also looking at this issue at the level of the european union institutions.
in writing. recruitment procedures at the european medicines agency are still not transparent. however, its conflicts of interest have been reported more than once in the past. i am voting against this text which gives discharge to an agency which has yet to be reformed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european maritime safety agency. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european maritime safety agency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european network and information security agency. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european agency for network and information security.
in writing. the budget of the european parliament is prepared in accordance with the rules of the bureau of the european parliament and of the committee on budgets. it will be integrated into the commission's 2014 budget proposal. an agreement was reached at a conciliation meeting between the european parliament's bureau and the committee on budgets. the commission is proposing to set up a two-stage budgetary procedure: first an estimate in the spring and then a vote on structural reforms and budget cuts in the autumn. the preliminary draft estimates for the 2014 financial year of the parliament amount to eur 1 808 144 206. this budget is up by 3.29% compared to 2013, with a special budget allocated in the run-up to the 2014 european elections. the budget estimate has already been reduced by €5 million. i voted in favour of this report, whose agreement in the conciliation procedure was supported by all the political groups in the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the estimates of the 2014 budget of the parliament. the parliament, like the other institutions, is seeing its real budget fall, partly because of cuts and partly because 2014 will be an election year, which will inevitably lead to a number of unusual expenditures. we have also succeeded in keeping the amendment on the single seat out of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hohlmeier report, which sets out the figures for parliament's budget for 2014. this draft budget is very realistic, and i welcome this: it includes a number of cuts, despite the accession of croatia, and therefore the welcome of croatian meps, and the imminence of the european elections, which will entail unusual expenditure.
in writing. as always, a majority of my colleagues have seized the opportunity to vote against strasbourg, against the treaty. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past.
in writing. this report welcomes the 56% reduction in translation costs in the european parliament. it therefore ignores the need for members to work in proper conditions. i vote against it.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation establishing a financial assistance mechanism for member states whose currency is not the euro follows the adoption of the '6 pack' and '2 pack' of economic regulation in the european union. the scope of the regulation, however, focuses only on member states outside the euro area. the legislation on this subject dates from 2002, so it was necessary to update it to bring it into line with the applicable legislation of the euro area countries. the final aim is to provide financial assistance to banks in countries with balance of payments difficulties. i voted in favour of the interim report which asks the commission to take a position, in particular on the question of the circumstances in which banks in non-euro area countries could be directly recapitalised by european funding such as the european financial stability facility. the report advocates indirect recapitalisation in the form of a bank recapitalisation loan, as this would avoid exposing the european budget directly to the risks facing banks.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report updating the financial assistance measures for countries not using the euro. to deal with the financial crisis, the european union has created several mechanisms (such as the european stability mechanism) as well as strict budgetary control policies, which consequently impact countries outside the euro area. it was therefore necessary to adopt a new version of the financial assistance mechanism for non-euro area countries, to ensure a certain degree of coherence between countries using the euro and those not using it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by danuta hübner on the financial assistance mechanism for member states whose currency is not the euro. it was absolutely necessary to revise the legislation on this matter, which dates back to 2002, in order to take account of developments within the euro area, in particular since the beginning of the crisis, the creation of the european stability mechanism, and the two-pack and six-pack legislation. a financial assistance facility has been set up to provide loans or credit lines to non-euro area countries in difficulty. for the sake of consistency, a number of points from the two-pack have logically been added. this is a remarkable step towards greater solidarity within the european union, which i very much welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which establishes financial assistance for the eu member states outside the euro area. it is a means of strengthening economic cooperation between the member states of the european union. solidarity between the peoples of europe is essential for economic and financial stability within the union, but above all it seems to be the only solution for all european countries to emerge from the crisis.
in writing. i have agreed with the european parliament as a whole to amend the existing legislation dating from 2002 on the financial assistance mechanism for non-euro area member states. this amendment is consistent with the logic of coherence and cohesion, since it is mainly a matter of adapting legislation to the new realities, taking into account the tools put in place in recent years, the european stability mechanism (esm) but also the two-pack and six-pack regulations that apply to the euro area countries.
in writing. i voted against the financial assistance mechanism for member states whose currency is not the euro. this bank recapitalisation instrument is similar to the european stability mechanism (esm). as in its predecessor, it provides for the introduction of 'enhanced surveillance' of national budgets under the control of the commission, if necessary, but also of the ecb and the imf. after the social catastrophes caused by these blind austerity measures, particularly in greece and more recently in cyprus, we have seen how budgetary sovereignty and democracy have been confiscated by the troika, to impose ultra-liberal policies on the people in the name of budgetary austerity. the text proposes to bring the same "solutions" to countries outside the euro area. under the guise of solidarity, the golden rule is once again being imposed. repeating and reaffirming these old recipes, which are dangerous for the population and especially the poorest, will not allow the member states of the european union to get out of the crisis, but on the contrary will contribute to deepening it. i therefore opposed this new financial assistance mechanism.
in writing. i strongly support this report which supports the policy decisions taken by the ecb, in particular with regard to its monetary policy and its own initiatives. the ecb's annual report was prepared in a difficult economic environment, with a deepening sovereign debt crisis in most member states threatening to relaunch the banking crisis. to counter the effects of the crisis, the ecb used new instruments to break the link between the two types of crisis and set historically low interest rates. the ecb should avoid giving the impression that it is directly financing the public debt. the report, however, calls on the ecb to remain cautious in order to face the future with confidence.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ecb's 2011 annual report, which was originally very critical of the institution, but we have managed to amend it sufficiently to make it acceptable. we have called on the ecb to do more to ensure that its low-interest loans reach the real economy. we also want it to become more transparent and accountable, in line with its growing role in the eurozone crisis. with such expanded responsibilities and powers, the ecb will be better able to promote growth and employment.
in writing. the explanatory memorandum to ms matias' report is more informative than the body of the report itself and significantly more negative about mr draghi's action. i regret that in the text we adopted (but which i did not vote for, for this reason in particular) there is no mention of the role of the ecb, no criticism of the way in which it intervenes or goes beyond its mandate, no denunciation of the fact that its interventions have more often been part of the problem than part of the solution in crisis situations, and no expression of doubt as to the need for the bank's independence. this leads mrs matias to a clear conclusion, even if it is unthinkable for her to call into question the now sacrosanct 'euro': at a minimum, the bank's statutes must be amended, its objectives redefined, its decisions subject to political imperatives and closely controlled. it's a beginning of awareness. it is not in the text that was voted, which is ultimately just a compliment to the former goldman sachs executive. how many more countries must he ruin, how many more unemployed must he make before this parliament, which boasts of democratic control, really taps him on the fingers?
in writing. in the crisis the european union is going through, if there is one institution that has particularly widened its scope of action, it is the european central bank. but if it has done much in the storm we are facing, it must do more for growth and jobs in europe. we have repeated this in our positions. there will be no lasting improvement in europe unless we provide clear and massive support for the real economy. that is the message i wanted to convey by voting for this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which clearly calls for more transparency from the european central bank (ecb) and points to the lack of democratic accountability of this institution which plays a significant role in the wake of the eurozone crisis. as the driver of monetary policy, the ecb must move away from austerity to get out of the crisis and move more towards boosting growth and jobs. in this respect, it is essential that the ecb ensures that low-interest loan guarantees to banks genuinely feed the real economy and support european smes more directly.
in writing. in this report, which assesses the activities of the european central bank, parliament expressed the wish that the ecb should do more to promote growth and employment rather than just price stability. to this end, my colleagues and i call in particular on the ecb to take measures to guarantee low-interest loans to the real economy and to take an active part in the drafting of a future banking union. although the ecb cannot of course solve the crisis on its own and it is essential that the member states clean up their public finances, this text is good on the whole. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. this parliament motion for a resolution concerns the 2011 annual report of the european central bank (ecb), a report which describes the changes in policies and strategies made by the ecb in response to the crisis. i voted against this report because i think it is grossly inadequate. it does not question the draconian and counterproductive measures and the bad bailout plans decided by the ecb. i believe that the european parliament, as the only european institution elected by the citizens of europe, must send a clear message on this matter. the lack of transparency with which the troika and the ecb are acting is simply intolerable. by imposing austerity policies on the member states, the ecb not only offers no viable prospect of a way out of the crisis for the european people, but it also goes far beyond its mandate. i am therefore advocating an ecb which serves the real economy and the citizens, not speculative and financial interests, an ecb which is transparent and democratic.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report assessing the activities of the european central bank for 2011. some of the observations made in this report deserve to be heard. the current crisis only confirms that it is high time to review the economic governance of the euro area: the question of a budget specific to the states sharing the same currency has merit to be asked, as well as the question of the control of the troika (eu, imf, ecb) and the drastic requirements imposed for the granting of aid to states in difficulty. the absence of conditions attached to loans to banks and the exceptional profits made by the ecb seem to me completely unacceptable. finance is an instrument for the economy and not the other way around: the ecb must not be able to make a profit, and guarantees on the use of funds by banks must be required. the report rightly stresses the need for transparency in the ecb. the effects of its decisions are disastrous for employment, purchasing power and public service. europeans deserve a democratic debate; they deserve to be heard. it's inconceivable that we're not more informed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european railway agency. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2011. as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i have studied this financial market authority carefully, whose role is crucial in this financial, economic and social crisis.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european securities and markets agency. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. as part of the eu's external relations policies, the european training foundation helps developing and transition countries to exploit the potential of their human resources through the reform of their education and training systems and labour markets. i welcome this report which supports the discharge for the implementation of the budget of this european foundation for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european training foundation. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular. at present, better coordination of training at european level will meet the needs of the labour market and will give more opportunities for professional mobility to young people.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european agency for safety and health at work. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular. the dissemination of good practice in occupational safety and health is one of the pillars of csr and therefore deserves to be encouraged.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2000-06.
in writing. originally designed to coordinate national research programmes for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, the euratom treaty now contributes to the pooling of knowledge, infrastructure and funding for nuclear energy. the euratom supply agency, which has legal personality and financial autonomy, is under the control of the commission, which gives it directives and has a right of veto over its decisions. it ensures the security of the atomic energy supply through centralised control. convinced by the report on the accounts of the euratom supply agency, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the euratom supply agency. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the euratom budget for the financial year
in writing. the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) is a tripartite body of the union which was established in 1975 with the aim of contributing to the planning and implementation of better living and working conditions in europe. more specifically, it assesses and analyses living and working conditions; provide authorised opinions and advice to social policy makers and key stakeholders; contributes to the improvement of the quality of life; the report also provides an overview of the main trends and developments, particularly those that are driving change. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular. while the search for a job is a priority for many of our citizens, improving living and working conditions remains a priority for the social partners and policy makers, to combat social dumping, which tends to spread in times of crisis.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing. eurojust was established by council decision 2002/187/jha of 28 february 2002 with the mission to promote and strengthen coordination and cooperation between national authorities in the fight against serious crossborder crime in europe. i followed the opinion of the parliamentary committee and voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of eurojust. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to eurojust's budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need to amend the vat directive to clearly define the different types of 'vat vouchers', with a view to harmonising their vat treatment. vat vouchers are instruments which entitle the holder to receive goods or services, or a rebate or discount in respect of the supply of goods or services. the common rules on vat are outdated, adopted in 1977, and in particular the use of vouchers which pose additional difficulties for businesses, which were not envisaged at the time. the absence of common rules has led member states to adopt uncoordinated solutions, leading to inconsistencies in the taxation of transactions: problems of double taxation or non-taxation, tax evasion, distortions of competition, obstacles to business innovation. the proposal is designed to cover the tax consequences of the various types of vouchers at the time of their issue, distribution or exchange.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to define clearly the different types of vouchers and to harmonise their vat treatment. the 'vouchers' entitle the holder to a rebate in respect of the supply of goods or services. at present, the absence of common rules has led to uncoordinated action within the eu and inconsistencies in the taxation of transactions. while parliament adopted several texts during this plenary session which go in the direction of a 'european banking union', supporting this text ensures the consistency of our political line.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, and i fully share its premise: as vouchers are increasingly being used by community enterprises, which was not the case at the time of the first vat directives, it was necessary to establish common rules for the vat treatment of vouchers. otherwise, the door would remain open to distortions of competition, non-taxation or double taxation and the risk of tax evasion. i therefore consider that the broad consensus which has surrounded the adoption of this technical report constitutes a real step forward in the completion of the single market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is a further step towards the completion of the european single market. in view of the massive use of vouchers by businesses, each member state of the union currently has its own measures. the european union is thus faced with a mosaic of legislation. it seems essential to harmonize the vat rules on vouchers in order to establish a coherent economic and monetary policy for all the member states. the new measure will also make it possible to combat tax evasion and tax fraud more actively and effectively within the european union.
in writing. the increase in the use of vouchers has introduced difficulties not foreseen by the common vat rules. this legal vacuum has therefore led member states to develop their own solutions, resulting in inconsistencies and problems of taxation, tax evasion and obstacles to business innovation. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, which amends the vat directive to define clearly the different types of vouchers and to harmonise their treatment when they are issued, distributed or exchanged, whether in a single member state or in a transaction involving several.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the common system of value added tax as regards the treatment of vouchers because the common rules on vat date from 1977 and need to be updated. this is the case with "bonds", which are instruments that give the holder the right to receive goods or services. the absence of common rules has led member states to adopt uncoordinated solutions. we are seeing inconsistencies that need to be addressed and double taxation, tax evasion and distortion of competition avoided.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of europol. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european union agency for fundamental rights. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european agency for the management of operational coordination at the external borders (frontex). through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex).
in writing. the european global navigation satellite system (gnss) agency is responsible for the homologation of the safety systems and the operation of the galileo security centre. as there was nothing to criticise about the agency's budget implementation for the financial year 2011, i voted in favour of its discharge on the implementation of the budget.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european gnss agency. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the european gnss agency.
in writing. the european union has launched a public-private partnership in the field of on-board computing research in the form of a joint technology initiative, implemented by the artemis joint undertaking. as the court of auditors has delivered a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts of artemis, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of this joint undertaking for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the artémis joint undertaking. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the outcome of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to grant discharge to the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year
in writing. the clean sky joint technology initiative (jti) aims to create a european-wide public-private partnership for aeronautical research to develop the technologies needed for a clean, innovative and competitive air system. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, in view of the positive conclusions on the reliability of the accounts of the joint undertaking as issued by the court of auditors.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the cleansky joint undertaking. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking.
in writing. technological innovation is essential for growth and employment. it is a source of competitiveness. in order to stimulate investment in key technology sectors, a public-private partnership in the nanoelectronics sector has been launched in the form of a joint technology initiative, implemented by the eniac joint undertaking. in line with the position of the court of auditors and the report of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the eniac joint undertaking. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the outcome of the audit was satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to grant discharge to the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2000-06.
in writing. the european parliament, in its role as guardian of the eu budget, must follow a rigorous and prudent procedure and not commit any legal injustice in the exercise of its discharge tasks. as the court of auditors has delivered a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts of this joint undertaking, i support this report which proposes to grant discharge to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to give discharge to the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking.
in writing. the imi joint undertaking shall implement the joint technology initiative (jti) on innovative medicines with a view to developing a competitive pharmaceutical sector based on innovation. this public-private partnership aims to support investment in this area. i voted in favour of the discharge for implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines.
in writing. council decision 2007/198/euratom of 27 march 2007 establishing a joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy and conferring advantages on it. the iter joint undertaking was set up to promote scientific research and technological development in the field of fusion. the court of auditors gave a very positive and unreserved opinion on the reliability of the accounts of the joint undertaking. that is why i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
in writing. i vote against the resolution on the discharge for iter. iter is an unacceptable waste of public money for the benefit of nuclear energy. the money should go towards planning the phase-out of nuclear power and increasing the share of renewable energy in the european energy mix.
in writing. the sesar joint undertaking is a european body set up in 2007 to steer the development and implementation of a new air traffic management master plan for europe. its status makes it a community body with legal personality, and its seat is in brussels. the statute provides that it will cease to exist by 31 december 2016 or eight years after the approval of the new master plan by the council of the european union, which took place on 30 march 2009. i would like to welcome the full opinion of the court of auditors on the management of this joint undertaking for the financial year 2011. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011.
in writing. i have approved the 2011 discharge of the sesar joint undertaking. through discharge, parliament exercises political control over the implementation of the budget and can sanction an institution or agency which has failed to meet its obligations. here i have considered that the use of the funds for the financial year 2011 was quite regular.
in writing. discharge is the final stage of the european budgetary procedure. after the final audit and clearance of the accounts, the council issues a recommendation before parliament agrees to grant or refuse discharge, thus releasing the commission from its management obligations. the result of the audit of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i have voted to grant discharge to the budget of the sesar joint undertaking.
in writing. the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance, adopted on 23 november 2007, aims to ensure the effectiveness of the international recovery of child support for these key family members. the convention has given priority to the protection of children, since the vast majority of maintenance claims directly concern them. this convention is a tool for all citizens, as it provides a mechanism by which child support obligations can be claimed and guaranteed when the person liable is resident in a third country. the european parliament has already signed that convention on behalf of the european union since 6 april 2011. however, for the convention to be applicable in the union, the deposit of the instrument of approval is necessary and must be accompanied by information on the national central authorities and any reservations that may apply to certain articles of the convention. i strongly support this report which stresses the need for swift approval of the amendments in order to ensure rapid and effective implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ratification by the european union of the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance. the issue of transnational divorces is a subject on which i am strongly involved, and any initiative to facilitate legal and administrative procedures must be taken. the aim of the new legislation is to end the impossibility of claiming maintenance outside the eu in the event of non-payment and to introduce better coordination between central authorities on maintenance and the recognition of maintenance decisions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which provides real legal certainty for the parties concerned by maintenance obligations by harmonising the conditions for international maintenance recovery. until now, maintenance obligations have been governed by the law of the state of the creditor's habitual residence. now a person in need will be able to receive financial assistance from a close family member even if the latter is resident in a third country. it is a real protection that is being provided here to the beneficiaries of these food aid and more particularly to the children.
in writing. the ratification of the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of alimony for children and other family members is particularly important. it obliges parents who are able to do so to pay child support payments due to their children whether they reside in the same state as them or not. this convention recognizes the right of children to a dignified life and places it above parental evasions. i vote for it.
in writing. parental divorce is always a heartbreaking experience for children. the hague convention, which deals with the international recovery of maintenance for children and other family members, avoids adding to this separation, often experienced as a trauma, the material inconvenience caused by the absence of payment of maintenance. i believe that no parent should be able to evade his obligations simply because he resides in a third country. as a father of two children myself, i am particularly concerned about these issues. i therefore welcome the proposal for a council decision which will allow the deposit of the instrument of approval of the convention and its entry into force as soon as possible.
for the greens/efa group madam president, it is true that we do not often have the opportunity in this parliament to report at such an exceptional political moment as that which turkey and the region are going through, on the one hand, and relations between the european union and turkey, on the other. i think we should really congratulate ria oomen-ruijten, who has succeeded in making this report a report of a political partner, without paternalistic overtones, while being able to address situations and issues which are of great political sensitivity, such as the question of minority rights, freedom of expression - we have just spoken about this - the situation of women or environmental issues. i therefore believe that this report is very useful in what i would call an exceptional situation. in what way? because in diplomatic relations as well as in political changes, important things happen. the political change in france has already had its first effects: the lifting of a veto on chapter 22, which will itself have effects in the context of the peace talks, which have been bravely and even admirably launched by the turkish government with its kurdish political partners. i think that's very important. i regret that there are still more than 40 of us who would delete our message at the opening of chapters 23 and 24. the european parliament has already expressed its support for the democratic reforms in turkey, but it must also support the powerful levers of negotiation around these two chapters, which concern precisely the question of fundamental rights, justice, freedoms and the judiciary. so this amendment is really quite deplorable in our institution. as i said, something is happening in turkey today, something we have not yet seen in its full extent, namely this direct negotiation between someone who is in prison - mr öcalan - and mr erdovan, a negotiation which is very widely supported by the population, by civil society. this is a very important point, and it is also closely linked to the debate on the new constitution, since the question of defining a new citizenship, the question of the possibility of being educated in one's mother tongue, the question of decentralisation and democratisation in turkey are all linked to the political solution of the kurdish question and to the progress of this peace process. i think that the call, the strength and the support of all the european institutions for this process is absolutely essential today. the european union has much to offer in this area, both its experience in reconciliation and peace and its capacity to create political compromise, political dialogue and respect in political debate, which is still sorely lacking in the turkish political space. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i admit that i have a little difficulty understanding the question. i would simply like to point out, mr president, that the amendments which concern our very concerns about the rather old, growth-oriented and productivist model of development in turkey were tabled by my group and are contained in mrs oomen-ruijten's report. as for the rest, i am not quite sure what you mean by the environmental impact of turkey's accession to the european union. i believe that i am always at the forefront of these issues in the discussions with our turkish counterparts, for example on the issues of climate change, in the fight against these nuclear power plant projects and in ensuring that growth in turkey is rich in jobs, but also rich in common goods such as environmental protection.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has produced a balanced and lucid report in a difficult context, because the equation in which the relationship between the european union and turkey is embedded is an equation according to which it is not possible to make progress in our relations without making progress in the perspective of accession. we know that the prospect of accession is itself problematic. it is a problem for many of our countries, it is a problem for many of our public opinions and it is a problem for turkey itself. so we know that this integration is not consensual. in this context, i must nevertheless ask myself whether the opening of five new chapters is advisable, because, as has been said again, it is a political signal. i am not ignoring the fact that opening chapters may provide leverage to improve the sensitive and critical areas in which we are going to negotiate, but finally, before entering into negotiations on the substance, we are sending a political signal, a double signal. first, a reward signal to turkey. i do not see much in turkey's present attitude to reward it, especially when i think of its attitude during the cypriot presidency of the european union. the second signal we send is a signal to our public opinion that we are entering a mechanical process of accession. i think we should nevertheless be aware of the sensitivity of the enlargement issue, far beyond the turkish case, and realize that if we are not careful, we will be greatly confusing our public opinion and the people of europe.
mr president, today we are being asked to dispel the catastrophic results of the war of aggression that was waged in the name of nato in this region. but the resolution we are being given is completely contradictory. article 3 of the treaty, for example, actually encourages the dismemberment of serbia, since it calls, as mrs miranda has done, for the five eu states which have not yet recognized kosovo to do so. article 7 of the treaty on european union, however, expresses the absolute support for the integrity of kosovo. in other words, a number of speakers, like mrs miranda, are in favour of self-determination for albanians but deny equal rights to serbs. it will be necessary to explain in the name of what moral principles. in fact, everyone knows very well what is going to happen. if this association agreement comes into force, we will still have to deal with organized crime, corruption, the persecution of minorities, the deficiencies in the rule of law that eulex has not been able to fill. i think in the current crisis we actually have much better things to do than that. we have much better things to do than that and, in particular, we have to avoid the results of the kosovo case law at home. i am personally fighting for the day when marseille does not become mitrovica.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, since 2009 parliament has acquired new decision-making rights. the commission proposes, parliament and the council decide on all fisheries matters, except, of course, the fixing of tacs and quotas. the multiannual management plans are designed to preserve stocks in the medium and long term and to plan fishing activities over several years. they are the cornerstone of fisheries policy. in the context of these plans, the council is currently refusing the co-decision power given to parliament on the rules on the composition of catches, which blocks any decision and any implementation of the management of the main stocks exploited in the european union. the blocking of plans is already causing problems for stock conservation. it also creates great uncertainty for the professionals who fish for these stocks. the council's attitude means that all european maritime regions are deprived of new multiannual plans and are obviously suffering the consequences. the council continues to ignore the existence of the european parliament by blocking all management plans at first reading, stating that it is the only competent body to decide on the rules on the composition of catches. in december 2012, he decided on the rules for the exploitation of cod bypassing parliament, which is due to adopt its position on this matter next week in the committee on fisheries. i would like to remind you that the legal services of all the institutions support parliament's position as a full co-decision-maker. the council refuses to accept the new rules of the game laid down by the lisbon treaty and ignores the prerogatives of the european parliament as recognised by that treaty. in this institutional arms race, fishing is not an isolated field. parliament must defend its new prerogatives. accepting the council's position is to deny the voice of the peoples represented by the european parliament. it is not a question of a power struggle, but of giving the representatives of the citizens the voice that has been given to them from lisbon. there is an urgent need to provide clear rules for european fishermen to enable the sustainable exploitation of resources. the irish presidency has started the interinstitutional negotiations, as you have just said, madam minister, and we are pleased to hear you say that you are determined to recognise the prerogatives of this parliament.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european citizens' initiative is a formidable instrument in the hands of the citizens. yet it is still hampered by the main defect of any administration: bureaucratic obstacles. of the 30 initiatives submitted, half were declared admissible but none reached the 1 million signatures in the seven member states. after a slow start and despite a number of shortcomings, i am against a complete reform of the project as some of my colleagues have suggested. the locks are absolutely necessary to avoid counterproductive or absurd petitions, as we can see in the united states with a petition on the construction of the death star of the star wars movie. nor, as one of my colleagues said earlier, should it be hijacked by trade unions or political parties, or even used by some of our colleagues, as was proposed earlier for the single seat, which would be contrary to the treaties. there is indeed a single seat, it is in strasbourg, we all know that. this citizens' initiative is in the hands of the european citizens and it should not be used to fight against the law but rather to fill a legal vacuum. the right to speak, the duty to propose must be a service to all and not for the pleasure of each. in addition to the lack of communication, feedback from the organisers of the initiatives shows that there are many obstacles but that they can be overcome. the commission must improve its hardware and computer support. let's simplify administration with one single approval service, whether it's for data collection or data protection, without prohibiting identification but, perhaps, simplifying it. failure to verify identities is facilitating fraud. if fraud is discovered, the validity of a citizens' initiative will have to be questioned and much more control work will have to be carried out. let us calculate the 12 months of collection from the certification and not from the filing of the citizens' initiative. the commission is promising to set up a computerised system for collecting signatures. the system is not working properly and then, on monday, she wrote a letter accusing the petitioners of not having planned a system in time. it's not fair. it's not fair. if the rules are not the same for everyone, it's no use. we must act quickly and give a signal of confidence to civil society actors and for this we must consult them. i will end with two paradoxical questions. will a european citizens' initiative be needed to improve the european citizens' initiative? this is partly the aim of the current eic 11. above all, the commission wants to tackle the obstacles to citizenship in this european year of citizens. should it not set itself the objective of reducing its own obstacles to citizens' initiative? i fear that these paradoxes will tarnish this very fine tool of citizenship.
madam president, madam commissioner, i also welcome the opportunity to take stock of this european citizens' initiative, which is of course still a very recent instrument, even though it is fundamental to the life of european democracy. you also know, as you have pointed out, that the european parliament has been very involved in the development of the regulation and has a great interest in the success of this system. however, you all also indicated that there are a number of questions arising about the operation, with elements that are problematic about a device that is not yet very well known - but i will come back to this - probably because of a low involvement of national governments, a collection system that is sometimes considered a bit complex, questions about the protection of personal data, questions also about the time limits that are sometimes considered a bit short to collect the required signatures. in short, there are criticisms, but this is quite normal, of a process which may seem a bit long in responding to the concerns of our fellow citizens. of course, all safeguards must be in place to prevent abuse of this system. in the end, it should not be only the most organised groups or the lobbies that have the capacity to overcome a number of obstacles that succeed in defending their particular interests at the expense of the collective interests. it is therefore necessary that every citizen should be able to understand and participate in this european decision-making process. in this context, i am convinced that governments must do more to make this instrument of european democracy better known in everyday life, and i regret, for example, that there is no council statement. i hope that this is not a sign of the weak interest of governments in the european citizens' initiative.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mrs malmström, i am very pleased that it is you who are here today. why would you do that? because of the commission's collegial nature. the question we have to deal with today, as has been very well said by sharon bowles, by elisa ferreira and others, is the nature of our relations. in this europe as it is, with the treaties we have, are we willing to do our utmost to cooperate or are we trying to play tricks on each other? it's not more complicated than that. it's not technical at all, elisa ferreira said so. we have a margin of manoeuvre without changing the treaties, without going for complicated things, to work better together. there was a commitment, i was also one of the six-pack rapporteurs, so i can really testify that this is one of the points which has been the subject of very long negotiations and that it is therefore important that this procedure should take place in a good spirit. we can make treaty texts, why should we not be able to agree on indicators, to refine them? and that brings me to the bottom, because actually, what's really important is to see the story behind all of this. it's not about having a nice dashboard, that's not the point. so far, we in the euro area, all of us together, have decided to have a very reductive approach, focused on debt and deficit. with the six-pack, we added some new instruments. for the first time, we're saving money together! we try to look together at what is wrong and we start to touch on issues that are those that impact on the lives of citizens, that is: is there unemployment? is the level of hourly pay fair? here are the subjects. if we do not debate this, if this parliament is not able to at least serve as a sounding board, to at least send out messages - i am not saying that our view should prevail, but that there should at least be this space for discussion - i will tell you what will happen: the european adventure will be over! what many people do not want to understand at the moment is that the rise of mutual resentment, the rise of protest, whether it is focused on brussels, whether it is focused - wrongly, in my opinion - on berlin, gives all populists a dream opportunity to make voices on the back of europe. either we react collectively and intelligently - and, i repeat, we have equipped ourselves with the instruments to do so - or we will collectively go against a wall. i don't think that's in our best interest. we must put questions of competitiveness, employment and the economy back on the european agenda, and not just questions of mutual control.
mr president, in agreement with the whole negotiating team on the european social fund, and in accordance with annex xx to our rules of procedure, which, in agreement with the council and the commission, defines the conditions for the trilogues, we had to interrupt this morning the negotiations on the legislative basis for the european social fund, as the council showed no will to make any progress in these negotiations and, during a trilogue today, called into question the agreements which had been concluded under the cypriot presidency on 18 october. i thought it necessary to inform our colleagues and those who are negotiating the multiannual financial framework on our behalf that the way in which the negotiations are proceeding on the legislative basis is also of decisive importance for the future existence of a european budget.
mr president, i would just like to point out to you very politely that, contrary to the rules, on the previous request for a postponement, that is to say on guantánamo, instead of giving the floor to one speaker for and one speaker against, you gave the floor to two speakers for and, on the ukrainian visa issue, instead of giving the floor, as the rules require, to one speaker for and one speaker against, you have just given the floor to two speakers against. that does not seem to me to be entirely in line with our rules of procedure.
mr president, before we proceed to the vote on the legislative resolution, we would like to know the commission's position on the amendments which have just been adopted by this house.
mr president, in these circumstances i would ask you to consult the house so that we can postpone the final vote on this resolution in accordance with rule 57 (2) of our rules of procedure.
in writing. the dialogue between the european union and ukraine on visa liberalisation started in the late 2000s, with ukraine currently in the first phase of a two-stage action plan. the current agreement between the two parties on visa facilitation dates from 1 january 2008 and now requires certain improvements and simplifications. that is why i voted in favour of this report amending the agreement between the european community and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas. the revised agreement expands the categories of ukrainian citizens eligible for the simplified procedure for obtaining free and/or multiple-entry visas, and improves the procedures for issuing visas to representatives of the press. the aim is also to facilitate short-stay visas for up to 90 days in total.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and ukraine. in 2008, simplified measures for issuing visas were introduced, but these still needed to be simplified and clarified. i particularly welcome the total exemption from visa requirements for participants in official exchange programmes. i am deeply involved in promoting '2013 european year of citizens' and encourage all measures that improve cohesion and sharing among european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which approves the amendments to the 2008 eu-ukraine agreement on visa facilitation. it is very positive that the provisions of this agreement are moving towards greater simplification and clarification of procedures. this will send a very positive signal to ukraine and help bring it closer to the european union.
in writing. while the number of eu visas granted to ukrainian citizens increased by 34% between 2009 and 2011, ukrainian citizens still have to complete complex paperwork that hampers their ability to travel to the eu. the administrative procedures for obtaining european visas for ukrainian citizens will now be simplified for many applicants, including journalists and their technical teams, representatives of civil society, participants in international events and young people. these persons will be exempted from the application fee and will obtain their visas more quickly and easily, facilitating links between civil societies of the union and ukraine. this facilitation should not prevent the union from exercising its vigilance over recent legislative proposals in ukraine that infringe the fundamental rights of lgbt persons.
in writing. i voted in favour of the revision of this agreement because it is primarily for me to defend an opening up of ukraine to europe by facilitating travel for representatives of civil society, journalists, ngos and young ukrainians. i am aware that a great many problems remain in terms of discrimination, particularly against lgbt people. however, i believe that today we must give a positive signal to encourage ukrainians to continue their reform efforts; on the other hand, we have no assurance that a negative vote or any postponement would actually press for change in the country. we will have further opportunities to speak out on the situation of fundamental rights and to guide this country towards democratic change in accordance with our values, this is not the end of the matter.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which will facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas within the european union for a greater number of actors in ukrainian society, including journalists, representatives of civil society organisations or participants in international conferences or events. it seemed logical to me to make it easier for ukrainian citizens to travel to the european union, as more and more people are travelling there, since eu citizens have not needed a visa to enter ukraine since 2005.
in writing. according to commission figures, the number of eu visas granted to ukrainians increased by 33.8% between 2009 and 2011. eu citizens have been visa-free to enter ukraine since 2005. i therefore think it is appropriate to simplify the rules on the granting of short-stay visas (visits of less than 90 days). that is why i voted in favour of the eu-ukraine visa facilitation agreement, which simplifies the requirements for documents proving the purpose of stay for ngo representatives, journalists, and people attending international events; abolishes the visa fee (currently eur 70) for the same categories of ukrainian citizens; clarifies the measures on the duration of multiple-entry visas; provides for a visa exemption for short stays for government officials holding biometric passports. although, like some of my colleagues, i hope that ukraine will make progress in respecting the fundamental rights of gay, bisexual and transgender citizens, i believe that this issue should be dealt with separately from the visa issue.
in writing. the european union and the republic of moldova have signed an agreement on visa facilitation, which entered into force on 1 january 2008. it is now necessary to simplify, clarify and update this agreement by proposing a visa exemption for moldovan nationals who hold biometric service passports. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and moldova. in 2008, simplified measures for issuing visas were introduced, but these still needed to be simplified and clarified. i particularly welcome the total exemption from visa requirements for participants in official exchange programmes. i am deeply involved in promoting '2013 european year of citizens' and i encourage all measures that promote cohesion and sharing among european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the marinescu report, thereby approving the signing of the amending agreement of july 2012 between the european union and the republic of moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of visas. the procedures will now be clarified and simplified, the administrative burden on applicants reduced, and provisions are well laid down to avoid any abuse by the republic of moldova. there are also suspension clauses in case of a threat to public security, which i welcome as safeguards in this agreement. given its characteristics, this agreement seems to me to be balanced and will undoubtedly contribute to stabilizing relations between romania and moldova, which will be beneficial for the european union as a whole.
in writing. the agreement will make it easier for journalists, civil society representatives, ngos and young moldovans to obtain short-stay visas for the european union. this agreement is a step in the right direction and a further step towards a future visa-free regime for short stays, which would considerably strengthen cooperation between the european union and moldova. it also does not remove controls on entry and residence conditions and will therefore in no way encourage more illegal immigration. on the contrary, it will promote better cooperation in the management of migration flows and the fight against organised crime. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. this report has my unwavering support as it illustrates the determination of meps to defend and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, despite the crisis. it is intolerable that states fail to meet their obligations and violate fundamental human rights. the most vulnerable sections of the population, such as women and children, are the first victims. indeed, the crisis has negatively impacted the economic and social rights, but also the political rights of individuals in some states with painful repressions, especially following the mobilizations in north africa and the middle east. the crisis also had an impact on development aid, with a consequent decrease in the budgets allocated. it is imperative to strengthen european aid so that the european union is able to meet its commitments to the countries concerned.
in writing. as the epp's fictitious rapporteur in the committee on development, i voted in favour of the report on the impact of the economic crisis on human rights. the economic crisis poses a serious threat to the economic and social rights of citizens, but even in times of crisis, essential minimum levels of human rights protection must be maintained. i supported this report because i cannot imagine that the states could use the economic crisis as a pretext to undermine the fundamental principles of the right to food, education, decent housing, health care...
in writing. the crisis has a significant impact on our economies, but it would be a mistake to reduce our ambitions in supporting the poorest countries. indeed, supporting the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights in these countries means supporting their stability and promoting our rapprochement. so i think we have to make sure that we maintain a high level of ambition and commitment to our development policy. it will have indirect consequences for our own economies and must therefore be seen as a way out of the crisis, not as a burden on our economies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which highlights the serious consequences of the crisis worldwide and the threat it poses to human rights. it is unacceptable that financial markets continue to speculate on rising food and medicine prices while millions of people struggle daily to meet their basic needs and preserve their health. it is even more regrettable that governments have decided to target budgetary savings in key sectors such as education or social spending. it is also women who have seen their living conditions and rights deteriorate. the crisis has reinforced gender inequalities in terms of access to employment, redundancies and social protection. they are the first victims of human trafficking and modern slavery. finally, the widening of social unrest linked to the crisis has led to violent police repression and an increase in violations of basic political rights such as freedom of expression and the right to information. in the face of this bleak record, it is imperative that the european union and governments stick to their commitments in terms of official development assistance.
in writing. the crisis we are experiencing here in europe is also having repercussions beyond our borders, particularly in developing countries. the budget cuts made, which have the effect of reducing aid to these countries, do not mean that the union's commitment to them is weakening. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that economic difficulties should not in any case be used as a pretext for a regression of human rights. on the contrary, it seems to me that it is at such times that they must be defended with the greatest vigour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which recalls that the defence of human rights, despite the crisis, must remain a priority for the european union. economic crisis, lack of career prospects, corruption, growing inequality, and the desire for political change have shaken many countries of the world, leading to bloody repressions and civil wars. the crisis has also had an impact on development aid, and aid cuts are making developing countries even more vulnerable. in our relations with third countries we must continue to defend our values, such as human rights, development and fundamental freedoms, or else the rest of the world will turn its back on us.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on european statistics on demography. the aim of this regulation is to establish a common framework for eu demographic statistics through the collection, processing and transmission by the member states of harmonised statistics on population and civil status events. it seems necessary for the european union to have accurate data on its population in order to facilitate the decision-making process of the union. this report clarifies and clarifies the indicators and definitions used, leaving aside the criterion of 'habitual residence' proposed by the european commission, which seems to me to be irrelevant and disproportionate.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal because it will harmonise the different systems for collecting demographic data in the european union and thus provide more accurate estimates of the population of the member states, for example by avoiding double counting of nationals of one member state living in another member state. however, as there are still some unresolved issues, in particular the implications of this proposal for the calculation of the majority in the council and for access to certain european funds, we have decided to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution so that it can be discussed further in informal negotiations with the council.
in writing. today, each member state has its own method of calculating and collecting demographic data, which it communicates to the european commission. the stakes are high: these statistics are used in defining european policies, in accessing certain european funding, or in calculating the number of votes in the council. it therefore seems crucial to increase european harmonisation in this area. that is the meaning of this report, and i support it. the new rules that member states should comply with (negotiations with the council will now begin) include the obligation for member states to provide the european commission with data on the 'usually resident population' - that is, people who have been living in a member state of residence for at least one year or who arrive in a member state with the intention of staying for at least one year. the aim is to ensure that each resident is considered only once.
in writing. the measures put in place by the european commission are aimed at strengthening the conditions for the dismantling of decommissioned ships by using eu-listed facilities. the proposal for a regulation applies to ships flying the european flag but also to ships flying other flags that regularly call in the eu. the main objective, and i believe it is paramount, is to reduce the harmful effects of shipwrecks which are not environmentally friendly. on the other hand, the financial means employed place too heavy a burden on the companies. i therefore voted in favour of the text, but i rejected the article on the financial charge. the project created a recycling fund on the basis of the polluter-pays principle, in which a fee would be paid by shipowners whose ships call at european ports. it should be noted that a system of penalties is also in place: landlords who resort to negligent demolitions will thus be obliged to pay penalties. a new financial incentive proposal is therefore expected from the european commission, with a view to resolving the issue of the recycling fund.
in writing. almost all (90% in 2009) eu shipowners circumvent the general ban on the transfer of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries and dismantle their ships in, for example, india or bangladesh. through the ship recycling regulation, which i voted for, the eu intends to establish a global list of recycling facilities meeting minimum health and environmental standards in order to avoid dismantling having dramatic consequences for the environment and workers in the major recycling countries (india, pakistan, bangladesh). this regulation is a step forward, but i regret that parliament has refused (by 7 votes to one) to create a financial mechanism which would have enabled the polluter-pays principle to be applied by creating a recycling fund fund funded by the shipowners themselves and used to support the installations on the list (thus fighting social and environmental dumping). without this mechanism, there is a risk that ship owners will continue to evade their obligations simply by changing flags and selling their wrecks to the highest bidder. the revision clause adopted on this text will hopefully enable us to move this legislation forward, which, while commendable, is still insufficient to achieve its objective.
in writing. i voted in favour of measures to clean up vessels destined for scrapping and to recycle materials from listed facilities in the eu. i voted against the commission's proposal to create a recycling fund fund funded by a levy on european or non-european ships for every port of call. we preferred to ask the commission to submit a new legislative proposal to establish a system based on incentives to facilitate the safe and rational recycling of ships, rather than this binding financial mechanism which still entails additional costs for shipowners.
in writing. the issue of recycling european ships has important implications for our environment and for respect for the most basic human rights. the conditions under which the dismantling of ships is currently taking place are unacceptable and we must urgently remedy them. we have a clear responsibility to the workers of bangladesh, india and pakistan who risk their lives to dismantle our boats. i hope that the adoption of this text will help to put an end to this shameful trade and to improve the working conditions of these men and women.
in writing. the ship dismantling market is growing by 27% annually due to the end of life of many military, fishing and pleasure craft, mainly european. 90% of the world's ship-breaking activity is carried out in shipyards in india, pakistan and bangladesh, with european ship owners benefiting from lower labour costs and much less stringent environmental and labour laws. in these circumstances, it is necessary to develop a structured ship dismantling industry in europe and to invest in new sites dedicated to this activity and to structure this industrial sector of the future, which has the potential to create sustainable jobs, ensuring environmentally friendly conditions for the dismantling of ships. it would therefore be appropriate to set up a european recycling fund, funded by european shipowners, in the eu to develop high quality dismantling sites.
in writing. with the increase in maritime traffic, the ship-breaking industry has seen significant growth in recent years. developing countries concentrate most of the activity, despite discounted environmental and social practices and legislation. the text adopted calls for an end to the deconstruction of european ships in developing countries, but it is largely watered down by the rejection of the financial mechanism which was intended to support this principle. the text, by rejecting this substance, misses the point, fails to respond to the urgency and is regrettable.
in writing. the report aims to implement in advance the measures on environmentally and health-responsible ship dismantling management provided for in the hong kong convention. the ratification process is slow. the ecological and health emergency is crying out. so this anticipation is welcome. the text also proposes that ships from non-eu states entering a member state anchorage should comply with the same rules as ships flying the eu flag. the report proposes, in particular, the introduction of a recycling charge payable in the ports of call and borne by shipowners irrespective of the flag their ships fly. i would point out that it would be important for this measure to help create environmentally and health-friendly dismantling infrastructures for end-of-life vessels in the member states. i also point out that the cost of the royalty should not be borne by the customer or the employees. i am also pleased that the report strengthens the possibilities for sanctions in cases of de-flagging to dismantle ships outside the eu. i call for strict controls against flag defacement and strong sanctions. this regulation will have to be strengthened.
in writing. i welcome the entry of croatia into our common home of the european union, scheduled for 1 july, as the 28th member of the union. the vote by parliament on this report signifies the agreement of the european parliamentarians to croatia's accession and demonstrates parliament's confidence in the strength and maturity of croatian democracy, its social market economy and its adherence to european values.
in writing. i voted in favour of the overall monitoring report with a view to croatia's accession to the european union scheduled for 1 july 2013. the report, which is the last step before croatia joins the eu, describes the last minor elements that can still be improved for optimal integration into the european area. in adopting this report, we have stated that there are no longer any obstacles to the accession of this 28th country to the european union.
in writing. in a few months' time, we will welcome a new member to the european union. this follow-up report gives us a clear picture of the situation in this new member and reminds us that there are still a number of challenges that the country will have to face once it becomes a full member. the adoption of this resolution allows us to set ambitions and expectations for croatia, so that it can reap the full benefits of this integration.
in writing. two years after the european parliament approved croatia's accession to the union, the anchoring and maturity of croatian democracy and its adherence to the principles of the social market economy and european values reinforce the confidence that the union can have in the capacity of this state to become its twenty-eighth member. croatia will have an important role to play with its neighbours in the western balkans, in facilitating the consolidation of the rule of law, regional cooperation and reconciliation between the peoples of this region. the recent ratification of the accession treaty by slovenia should be welcomed and germany and denmark, the only two member states that have not yet done so, should be encouraged to do so.
in writing. this report welcomes croatia's participation in the european semester from january. i'm not the one. i respect the sovereign budgetary power of the parliamentarians elected by the croatian people. i do not wish them what i did not wish for france and against which i fought with the parliamentarians of the left front. the text also calls on croatia to adopt additional austerity measures. this is not the welcome i wish to give to a people who have already suffered so much to join us in the european union. i vote against it.
in writing. croatia will become the 28th member state of the european union on 1 july. since the opening of accession negotiations in october 2005, the country has made considerable progress in meeting the political criteria required by the union: electoral reforms have been carried out, the status of minorities has been improved and a genuine anti-corruption policy has been achieved. at the same time, the country has been able to adapt its national legislation to that of the european union and to apply it. in economic terms, croatia will be joining the european union very soon and will therefore have to strengthen its competition policy. i voted in favour of this resolution because we must support croatia's accession to the union and ensure that european criteria are met.
in writing. i voted for the resolution in which parliament considers croatia ready to join the eu in july 2013. after 10 years of negotiations, the country fulfils the criteria for eu membership: a stable democracy, a social market economy, a rule of law. in the face of the atrocious wars in the balkans in the 1990s, this accession is one of the symbols of the eu's peacemaking influence. croatia is to serve as an example for the region. unfortunately, only 20% of croats went to vote for their meps this week: the economic crisis has dampened enthusiasm for the european project.
in writing. the negotiation process with turkey, which began in 2005, is a long-term venture. it is undeniable that turkey has carried out reforms necessary for its modernisation and the improvement of its democratic system. in this context, a programme for the development of relations was launched in 2012, but it does not constitute enhanced cooperation. turkey is a major economic player in the european union with bilateral trade amounting to almost €120 billion in 2011. however, accession to the european union remains conditional on compliance with the copenhagen criteria, which are still to be met by turkey. i noted the lack of real progress in the ratification of the ankara protocol and the recurring difficulties in its relations with cyprus. i therefore voted against the opening of negotiations on new chapters, such as fundamental rights, justice and home affairs.
in writing. this report shows the progress made but also highlights the efforts still to be made. freedom of expression issues remain highly sensitive and are essential in the framework of the fundamental rights defended by the eu. the process to achieve a privileged partnership is a long one. it is up to turkey to demonstrate its willingness to continue to advance its privileged relations with the eu.
in writing. i voted against this report because i question the progress made by turkey towards the rule of law. the final resolution does not mention the serious concerns about the independence of the turkish judiciary. it is worrying to note the length of time that activists, lawyers, journalists and members of the opposition parties elected to the grand national assembly of turkey have been held in pre-trial detention. a truly democratic society requires real freedom of expression, including the right to dissent. finally, i would like to reiterate my opposition to turkey's accession to the european union. that is why i voted against the final report and against the opening of the negotiating chapter between the european union and turkey on the judiciary and fundamental rights.
in writing. i wish to dissociate myself from the position taken by the european parliament on the accession negotiations with turkey. the decision to allow the opening of five new chapters of negotiations seems to me premature at this stage. the political conditions are not now in place for a new stage in the accession procedure. much remains to be done in terms of political freedoms, the recognition of minority rights, respect for freedom of expression and the media, and the independence of the judiciary. the dispute between turkey and greece is still unresolved, and i regret the attitude of turkey during the cypriot eu presidency in 2012. by taking this position we are sending a political signal to public opinion which will not be received with kindness. we know that the question of turkish integration and enlargement is a problem for our citizens who are facing a serious crisis that affects their immediate reality. by allowing new chapters to be opened, we are telling our citizens that their concerns are not being heard. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. i refused to comment on the follow-up report on the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union in order to express, like most of my french colleagues in the epp, my opposition to the opening of new negotiating chapters at a time when the political situation in turkey calls for the utmost vigilance in the defence of human rights, women's rights and freedom of expression.
in writing. parliament, by calling for the opening of accession negotiations on new chapters, is moving slowly but surely towards turkey's future membership of the european union. all this angelicism and political correctness is dismaying me. i say it today and i will say it again as often as necessary: turkey has no vocation to be part of the union! apart from the common sense observation that turkey is not geographically located in europe, we must be pragmatic. the union of 27, and soon 28, is already facing enormous difficulties at the moment. is it reasonable, then, to keep on widening the gap? who else is with a country whose demographic weight would completely undermine france's influence in the decision-making process? with a country in open conflict with two of our member states? with a country that a few months ago, jailed a french student, whose only fault was her political views? let's open our eyes! there is still time to backtrack and stop this accession process, as nicolas sarkozy courageously did during his five-year term.
in writing. as every year, parliament takes a position on what is commonly called turkey's progress in its application for eu membership. parliament expresses its unequivocal condemnation of the repressive practices which are common in turkey: preventive detention of activists, lawyers, journalists and political opponents, particularly kurds. however, and to top it off, this report is below the one that the commission also published at the end of 2012. the report also ignores the question of the occupation of part of cyprus and even proposes to grant observer status to the inhabitants of the occupied part of the island, in a way anticipating the recognition of the partition. in addition, visa facilitation between the european union and turkey is conditional on the signing of an agreement on the readmission of migrants, the catastrophic human consequences of which are well known. the report also calls on the eu member states to strengthen cooperation with turkey in the fight against terrorism. and we know what that means for political opponents, especially kurds. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on montenegro. i welcome the remarkable progress made by this official candidate country to the eu, which is firmly on the path to membership. i believe that the accession process should remain the driving force behind the continuation of the reforms launched in the country. in this context, civil society has a fundamental role to play. i regret, however, the difficulties the government is facing in fighting organised crime and corruption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the situation in montenegro. while we welcomed the solid progress made towards montenegro's eu accession, there is still a long way to go to guarantee press freedom, women's rights and gender equality. this report is a signal of encouragement to montenegro, which i have chosen to support.
in writing. the report provides lessons for montenegro on its unemployment rate and on the fight against corruption. i would point out to the authors that montenegro could legitimately object to them that the eu member states are far from being blameless in this matter. it also welcomed the liberalization measures implemented in the country. worse, it encourages the trampling of workers' rights and the implementation of austerity plans to curb the rise of public debt. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the european union opened accession negotiations with montenegro on 29 june 2012. since then, the country has made significant progress in satisfying some of the political criteria: electoral reform has been carried out, elections have been held successfully and, in parallel, regional cooperation has been established. it is necessary for montenegro to continue these efforts and to place greater emphasis on the rule of law by implementing irreversible reforms to combat organised crime and corruption. progress is also expected in other areas such as gender equality, dialogue with civil society and the fight against the informal economy. i voted in favour of this resolution in view of the progress made by montenegro and its desire to deepen its rapprochement with the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft resolution on serbia. with its status as a candidate country for the european union granted in 2012, serbia confirmed its commitments to the union. serbia is a crucial player for the union as it lies at the heart of the balkans and plays a significant regional role. the new status also confirms serbia's efforts to normalize relations with kosovo, which are necessary for the stabilisation of the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the situation in serbia. accession negotiations with serbia are expected to begin by june 2013, subject to the government's reforms in the areas of justice, the fight against corruption, freedom of the press and the protection of all minorities. moreover, i supported the new name of macedonia as arym, since france did not recognize the name "macedonia".
in writing. the report argues that accession negotiations with serbia can only be opened once the country has become a fully market economy. he denounces the desire of serbia to "partition kosovo" even though kosovo remains in the eyes of many states, including several eu member states, a serbian province and does not have the status of a state! the text goes so far as to state that "the idea of partitioning kosovo or any other country in the western balkans is contrary to the spirit of european integration". the declaration of independence of kosovo is in fact an idea of partition from serbia. the eu does not recognise kosovo as a state, with five member states opposing it! i am voting against this text and denouncing the blackmail of the european commission against serbia in the negotiations for its accession to the eu in order to obtain recognition of the state of kosovo.
in writing. since serbia was granted candidate status, it has made significant efforts to meet european criteria. on the political front, the last elections were well-run and an effective anti-corruption policy was implemented. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council of ministers has adopted a decision on the establishment of a european central bank. as regards relations between serbia and its neighbours, it should be noted that considerable work has been done in the area of reconciliation. the country has worked to develop a stable dialogue with bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, macedonia and croatia. in parallel, and with the support of the european union, serbia is continuing its dialogue with kosovo in order to maintain good, lasting and visible relations. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to support serbia in its political, economic and social progress and to enable it to meet the criteria for membership of the european union as best it can.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft resolution on kosovo. kosovo's independence is widely recognised in the european union and internationally. the draft resolution stresses that all eu member states are in favour of kosovo's prospect of membership of the european union. in this medium-term perspective, the normalisation of relations and the resumption of dialogue between serbia and kosovo seem to me to be crucial. this is essential for the stabilization of the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the situation in kosovo. relations between serbia and kosovo are developing in a positive way and we in the european parliament have decided to encourage this new trend. i am in favour of kosovo being recognised as a country in its own right, which could then start negotiations for membership of international organisations and, in the near future, of the european union.
in writing. the european union already has economic and cultural relations with kosovo and is interested in upgrading its status as a potential candidate country. despite the complex situation, progress in the negotiations on the association agreement with the union requires that kosovo resolves its problems of corruption and organised crime, improves the situation of refugees and internally displaced persons and strengthens the protection of witnesses. at international level, the union encourages the deepening of the belgrade-pristina dialogue and supports the normalisation of relations with serbia in the long term. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to support the european union and kosovo in their negotiations and to encourage further political, economic and social progress.
in writing. as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which is a key instrument for the future governance of the euro area. the scoreboard for the macroeconomic imbalance procedure is a policy tool that was introduced with the 'six-pack' as part of the reform of banking regulation at european level. this instrument is an essential basis for economic governance in the euro area, as it directly addresses macroeconomic imbalances that may have an impact on other member states.
author. - mr president, in this house there are countries which some people are more vigilant than others. the same people are also refusing to be included in the agenda of other countries where human rights violations are no less or even worse. is it a matter of political affiliation, interest, geostrategic alliance of the governments they support or the parties they belong to? this view of human rights is intolerable. it is the very opposite of universalism. it is the bed of all those who fight this universalism and present it as a western vision of values. i regret, for example, that we can never talk about the violations of human rights, especially women's rights, in saudi arabia, that we have not talked about kuwait, which has just resumed the execution of death sentences, that we have not been able to talk about the coup d'état in central africa and that the violations of human rights in some countries in sub-saharan africa, where the worst dictatorships in the world are operating, are never discussed. so we're going to talk about vietnam. and it is true that the situation of freedom of expression in this country is a matter of concern, and we have tabled our own resolution to this effect to condemn it. but i am surprised that this resolution is almost entirely to blame, whereas in other countries we are lost in circumstance so as not to impede the governments concerned. i remember the hesitations of the majority of this house to condemn the tunisian authorities under ben ali. it was not until the dictator was deposed on 3 february that this parliament finally voted a resolution. and if you want to talk about vietnam, why not talk about the issue of reparations for the vietnam war, and in particular the consequences of the dumping of thousands of tons of defoliants, rainbow herbicides, and in particular agent orange: nature, fauna, flora devastated, massive soil erosion, not to mention the human tragedy, both on the vietnamese and american side for that matter. it's a real economic boon for vietnam. we'd better have a balanced view. that's not the case. i regret that and that is why my group, which does not include only communist members, has not joined this resolution and will not be voting on it, much to the displeasure of mr preda. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". you know me very little, my dear colleague. i have 30 years of human rights activism behind me. i have 30 years of testimony to prove that i have condemned human rights violations everywhere, in every country in the world, including the countries of the former eastern bloc. i have no lessons to learn from you, and i said it in my speech: we have condemned what is happening in vietnam, we have tabled a resolution. if you want to know the gue/ngl group's position on this, i invite you to read it. it's just the double standard that bothers me. he's getting more annoying and i'm gonna say it louder and louder every time.
author. - mr president, i regret what happened in the previous debate. i'm used to respecting all my colleagues and not making personal attacks. i'll leave it at that. i would just like to say that some people, whom i can understand and who come mainly from eastern countries, tend to stick to a primitive anti-communism in defiance of the history of the communists in western europe, who often paid with their lives for the struggle against dictatorships. don't you forget that! i think the story should be complete. let's go back to kazakhstan. since our last resolution in march 2012, the situation in kazakhstan has only gotten worse. more and more political opponents, trade unionists, human rights defenders and journalists are being taken to prison. i would like to draw your attention in particular to the cases of vadim kuramshin, rosa tuletaeva and vladimir kozlov, whose health is of particular concern. freedom-killing security laws are passed, critical media are shut down, torture is widespread in prisons, the judicial system remains sclerosized. for example, following the bloody crackdown in december 2011, five police officers were given light sentences for abuse of power, but no one was convicted for the 16 deaths of protesters. at the same time, 17 protesters were sentenced to very long prison terms. and we could also talk about the forced return of uzbek refugees. however, negotiations towards an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with kazakhstan are proceeding smoothly, as if nothing had happened, while the external action service says that kazakhstan has not complied with more than 75% of the national action plan on human rights established with the european union. what credibility does the european union think it has in these circumstances? the government of kazakhstan is an authoritarian government, with which there can be no agreement as long as human rights are trampled underfoot. i would urge you, commissioner, not to repeat the mistakes made in the eastern partnership as they were made in the southern partnership, particularly in tunisia, where the european union supported the dictator ben ali to the end. beyond words, learn to learn from past mistakes. it is the credibility of the european union in the field of human rights that is at stake. yesterday was april 17, the international day of political prisoners. call on kazakhstan to release all political prisoners, especially those whose health is particularly threatened.
author. - mr president, i should like to begin by publicly apologizing to mr sonik for having been a little angry earlier. i'm a little on edge this afternoon. on tuesday, a damning report was released in the united states on the interrogation methods and systematic torture used in guantánamo. the resolution we are considering today is therefore very timely. indeed, despite the promises of barack obama in 2008, and because of the blockages of congress, despite the many appeals of the international community, the guantánamo base is still there and the situation of the men locked there is increasingly worrying. since february 6, about 130 prisoners have been on hunger strike. inhuman and degrading treatment continues to increase: force-feeding, lack of access to safe drinking water, psychological and physical pressure are commonplace. last saturday, violence escalated as guards did not hesitate to shoot at detainees who refused to be placed in isolated cells with 24-hour video surveillance. 779 people were detained at guantánamo. most were released without charge. 166 are still there, 86 only because they have no host country. some have been held for over eleven years without any charges or legal proceedings. the fight against terrorism cannot justify the same acts as those which are blamed on others, and i fully agree with veronique de keyser. guantanamo bay must therefore be closed. it's a stain on the country that calls itself the world's greatest democracy. the men held there must either be tried in a fair trial by civil courts or released when no charges are laid against them. everything must be done to ensure that they find a host country and the united states has a heavy responsibility in this regard. i believe that the european union can play its part in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. now, there's a committee meeting tonight. i think it would be better if the committee simply clarified this. we can decide tomorrow, that's not a problem at all. i just think that the reasoning that we had, at least, was why not at all... the european central bank's behaviour is also at stake, as it was in the negotiations. that is why it has been brought up in this way. so that's my question. we do not want to vote against it. i just think there was a reason, and then suddenly the reason is gone. and we don't understand that.
mr president, in france, they say that no one speaks for the prosecutor, so i'll give my opinion. i have heard mr verhofstadt's request and the request of the green group. i said i'd ask the question. i have asked the question and the proposal is the one marianne thyssen is making now. so, there you go. this is not my personal position, it is the group's position.
mr president, i would like to speak again on the basis of article 15 of the treaty on european union. the day after tomorrow there is a european council and, mr president, i would like to ask you what was the objection to the president of the european council being invited to report to the european parliament on thursday morning on the european council. you know that i am one of those parliamentarians who typically thinks that there are not enough political relations between parliament and the president of the european council, just as i think that you yourself, mr president, should attend the meetings of the european council. what prevented this invitation from being made for thursday morning?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the context of the europeanisation of energy policy, renewable energies are a key element in the european energy mix. we started nationally. the first steps were taken at national and local level, and then the 20% target was set for a first stage of a common european energy policy in the field of renewable energies. this second stage will last until 2020, but already now the european parliament's report, for which i am grateful - i thank all the rapporteurs in particular - and numerous commission communications are to lay the foundations for how the further development of renewable energy sources in europe beyond 2020 should proceed: better coordinated, better coordinated, more efficient and cost-effective. we in the commission are monitoring the development of the 20%. we see progress here, we can say that we are still on track overall, and we also see weaknesses, for example the 10% target in the transport sector with the weaknesses of sustainability, the commission's supplementary proposal which is currently before parliament to curb the eyelook factor and to stimulate research is a correction of our otherwise pioneering european energy policy. if you want to achieve only 10% in the transport sector, but you want to achieve 20% overall, there is actually a third factor, a third figure, that comes into play. in addition to transport, we are also concerned with heat and electricity. if you want to achieve 10% in transport but 20% in everything, you need 30% or more in heat and electricity. heat is first and foremost a regional issue. it is our job to advise and control. heating in buildings and in industry is a regional problem, but electricity is increasingly becoming a national, continental, pan-european dimension. i therefore believe that the subject of renewable energy sources converted into electricity is rightly given special importance in this report. we believe that the findings of the last few years should be seen above all as a weak point: retrospective intervention. we believe that some member states have provided support partly from public budgets. there has been over-subsidization, there have been budgetary problems, and then there have been retrospective cuts or retrospective cancellations of commitments. it is true that trust is destroyed when the investor has no certainty of planning for the promised number of years of an investment. we therefore propose a general approach to the future development: any change can be discussed, but retroactive deterioration, the retroactive withdrawal of commitments by reason or by amount, destroys confidence far beyond the member state concerned. we believe that the european commission's green paper has asked the important questions. we are currently in consultation. and the commission will be consulting before the end of the year and deciding whether we make a new proposal for the period after 2020. the 20-20-20 criteria will be in force for another seven years. but for investors, whether in renewables or infrastructure and storage, 2020 was yesterday and 2030 is tomorrow. we must therefore decide at once - parliament, council, commission - on the objectives we wish to set for the next decade: reduction of co2 emissions, efficiency and renewable energy. we as the commission have not yet reached a final opinion. we respect the consultation, but it is clear that a further co2 reduction target seems essential, together with a wise further development of our ets system. secondly, if you want to be completely technology neutral, you don't need another goal. i believe, however, that the success story of european renewable energy provides good arguments for formulating another renewable target - perhaps not in the transport sector, as long as we are only able to produce the first generation of biofuels, perhaps only in the electricity and heat sectors. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. clearly, the further development of renewable energy sources for electricity now that renewables are maturing, with a 20, 25, 30% share of the annual electricity conversion mix, requires firstly a stronger link to transport infrastructure, the development of new pan-european networks, secondly an intelligent infrastructure smart quits and smart metering , thirdly a stronger involvement of the consumer, so that he can adapt his consumption behaviour to electricity more closely to supply and demand and thus contribute to the stabilisation of the network and to increased storage capacities. this means that it is now, in fact, a much more delicate event, but one which must be held in a more european manner. i believe that this is why the right way forward beyond 2020 must be to move from purely national support to european coordinated or even harmonised support in the support systems. and then it's about doing it cost-effectively, which means, by smart development, helping to keep electricity affordable and therefore not causing social disruption and keeping electricity affordable for industrial jobs and not having to relocate to other parts of the world. in sum, your report and decision tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, our green paper and our communications will all be incorporated into a commission proposal which will certainly lead to binding decisions on binding 2030 targets in the next european parliament, the new 2014/2015, so that investors can be sure of their plans for the further development of renewable energies! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, commissioner, you have just mentioned it, we already have reason to be concerned about massive relocations in the renewable energy sector, particularly in the case of photovoltaics. the commission has submitted to the council a proposal to impose customs duties on imports of panels and modules from china in order to combat dumping by that country. the political groups in the committee on international trade have already asked the european commission about these issues and are still doing so. we want trade that is fair, we want trade that is just. we believe that renewable energy must be considered locally, also at european level. the question of needs, the question of demand, the question of production, but also, of course, the industrial question, must be considered locally. we ask you, commissioner, on behalf of the commission, to stand firm in the fight against chinese dumping, to maintain the photovoltaic industry in europe, to counter the german position which, in this matter, seems to me to be aimed at certain industries and not at the general european interest, the interest of european industry. i would also like to ask you, commissioner, what strategy you are considering for reinvesting in the photovoltaic industry so that the damage caused can be repaired.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague mr reul on the quality of the work he has done. it is true that europe today is having difficulty in securing its energy supply but also in remedying the infrastructure and network deficit it is experiencing. of course we need our renewable energies, but i would like to express reservations about the binding target of 45% by 2030 for renewable energy, because the production of renewable energy, whether it be solar or wind, is already very price-relative in nature. that is a problem. it is clear that in a number of member states the industrial bet on the solar sector has been lost. chinese competition, combined with the fall in subsidies for this energy, has taken a toll on european smes, and, amongst others, in my constituency unfortunately, smes have exploded because of this. so renewables, of course, we are all in favour of them, but as part of the energy mix, too much disruption to the energy future would be an unbearable cost, which would undermine the attractiveness of many industrial sectors. i would like to conclude with a positive note. however, there has been a huge amount of progress in the field of renewable energy in the european union, with renewable energy contributing 13% of gross final energy consumption in 2011, compared to 7,9% in 2004; so, let's keep up the good work. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". of course, the issue of the european union's energy supply and energy independence is crucial. it is obvious that the european union must be able to be more and more independent. renewable energy is one of the solutions to be considered. i think that no one can dispute that. what, though, do we see today? the americans export to the european union their coal, which they no longer need, since they exploit their shale gas. in this connection, the european union may also have to consider the exploitation of shale gas, and i believe that this will be discussed at the european summit next wednesday. i think we cannot deprive ourselves of using all the sources of energy we need. renewable energy must gradually become an increasingly important part of the energy mix. this is a goal we are setting ourselves, of course, but as i said, it cannot be binding by 2030.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, why this report? well, this report is being discussed in the context of the deepwater horizon disaster which happened three years ago, and there was a trilogue on the subject afterwards. already at that time europe realized that our standards were not sufficient to prevent such a catastrophe and wanted to respond to the challenges. that is what the commissioner was saying. but we are far from it. the environmentalists hoped to achieve the establishment of a european system of control of offshore platforms for a genuine european security policy. it failed, despite being a great opportunity to guarantee security free of conflicts of national interests. this text once again reflects the european democratic deficit resulting from the domination of certain states. the european council has shown its full capacity for nuisance in the trilogue by suppressing the progress made by the environmentalists in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on legal affairs. exits the supervision of oil activities by the european maritime safety agency. exits the overall financial coverage of risks in the event of an accident. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution, and it is not the commission's intention to do so. the selfishness of the states, especially the netherlands, denmark and england, has still prevailed, while the threat of a black tide knows no boundaries. for these reasons, the green group will reject the proposed text. on the other hand, we call on the other political groups to take their responsibilities by supporting the two amendments we have tabled in plenary: one aimed at just the introduction of a moratorium on mining activities in the arctic and the other at prohibiting drilling in economically and ecologically sensitive areas.
mr president, i am very divided on this text. we're starting from scratch. so we have made a breakthrough, but we have clearly missed an opportunity to define an ambitious legal arsenal. the european union is certainly catching up in securing offshore drilling, and i am not ignoring the work done by the rapporteur and all the actors involved in this parliament. but this text reveals a late realization. the intergroup on the sea and coastal areas, which i chair, was one of the pioneers in this awareness after the gulf disaster. commissioner oettinger, at the time, had courageously taken up his responsibilities and had taken very ambitious positions, going so far as to suggest to the member states a moratorium on future drilling. the commission then set to work. unfortunately, it was not only in the council that things went wrong, but also in the college itself, in order to force mr oettinger to reconsider his ambitions. the council has swallowed the draft regulation, which allowed for consistent application by the states, to find only a directive. the council then scuttled parliament's most ambitious proposals, in particular the strengthening of existing instruments, such as the maritime safety agency for the european control of national regulators. the conservative groups in this house have not been left out when it comes to refusing strict protection of the most vulnerable areas in the arctic. i therefore personally support the two amendments tabled by the green group calling on the member states to take the minimum necessary steps to protect the arctic. in fact, while i welcome the fact that the text contains provisions on financial responsibility, it is unfortunately extremely incomplete. we have a huge task ahead of us and it would be useful to link this work to the reflection on the consequences for european law of the erika judgment in france, which concerns the black tides caused by maritime transport. finally, i am very sorry that the transitional provisions do not allow for effective implementation for installations until after 2019.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) for tabling this question. as you know, and as mrs göncz mentioned, we have had the eurema relocation project and through that the european union has shown a concrete example of solidarity to a member state in need of assistance – malta – as it had to cope with the highest number of asylum seekers per capita in the european union. i am personally very committed to relocation as a tool and as a policy and i am happy that we have been able to assist malta a little bit with the pressure they have been facing. the question put by the libe committee notes, correctly, that the commission was planning to propose a voluntary permanent relocation scheme. indeed, this was my intention. however, we have to take the political reality into account. since the last relocation pledging conference in may two years ago, only seven member states have chosen to participate in the eurema ii project and so far they have relocated only 14 people between them. based on that experience, a legislative instrument on voluntary relocation would face difficulties in the council. in fact we did have a lunch discussion with the ministers of the interior on this, and a huge majority of the member states, almost all of them, were strongly opposed to a legislative instrument. by contrast, at the same time, 254 persons have been relocated bilaterally by member states in associated countries that are not participating in eurema ii. against this background we must look at all the available options to make progress in this matter. we want to encourage relocation activities as a continuous response to genuine needs for assistance and this could happen to any country, not only malta. this is why i am pleased to announce today a plan for an annual relocation forum. as part of the implementation of the common european asylum system, the commission will very soon, together with the european asylum support office (easo), table regular reports on particular pressures on member states’ asylum systems. these reports will show us where relocation can be a useful way of reducing the pressure. the relocation forum would then meet and discuss the reports and member states can indicate whether they consider that they are in need themselves of assistance through relocation or whether they would be interested in pledging places for relocation. under the new asylum and migration fund, the commission has proposed that there will be a eur 6 000 lump sum available for relocation activities per relocated person. this funding would be allocated to member states on a regular basis and for the first time when approving their multiannual programme. and the relocation forum: member states can choose to use that money. this approach could hopefully encourage more member states to offer places for relocation. as parliament very well knows, the new asylum and migration fund negotiations are not complete. some details will still need to be reflected upon once there is a final outcome on the budget. but with the eurema project, we have had some interesting experiences and that has been evaluated. we have learnt from good experiences and we are also trying to improve what did not work, but that was only with regard to malta. with the new relocation forum, it would be possible to provide any member state under pressure with assistance, provided that other member states are willing to offer them such assistance.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, schengen requires us to manage migration flows in a coordinated and responsible manner, since we now face a common challenge: the control of external borders. this implies a responsible and supportive approach to the management of our external borders and the processing of asylum applications. we have already done a great deal to coordinate our policies and a european asylum support office has been set up. the negotiations on the 'asylum package' have been successful and their outcome will soon be put to the vote in this house. the frontex agency has been reformed and strengthened, including the establishment of european border guard teams and the possibility for the agency to purchase its own equipment, while the eurosur external border surveillance agency is still being set up, its mandate being negotiated at this very moment in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. however, there are some glaring differences which we cannot deny. the countries bordering europe are highly exposed to large flows of migrants and asylum seekers and must bear the consequences. 332 000 asylum applications were lodged in europe in 2012, representing a 10% increase compared to the previous year. moreover, asylum applications are unevenly distributed within the european union. in 2012, the highest number of applications was registered in germany with 77,500, followed by france with 60,600, followed by sweden with 43,900. germany, france, sweden, the united kingdom and belgium account for 70% of asylum applications, but in comparison with the number of inhabitants per member state, the highest rates of asylum applications are recorded in malta, with 5 000 asylum applications per million inhabitants, in sweden, with 4 600 asylum applications per million inhabitants, and in luxembourg, with 3 900 applications per million inhabitants. we must also remember that solidarity is inseparable from the construction of europe. it underpins our actions. solidarity is not only a founding principle of europe, it is also a guarantee of the efficient functioning of the european union. so why, even though the european commission had announced that it wanted a european mechanism, did it not go through with its idea? it is true that some member states are reluctant to the idea of a european mechanism - i conclude, mr president - but a system of distribution which is voluntary or compulsory is a point which deserves, at the very least, discussion and debate. commissioner, you give us a partial answer, by mentioning an annual distribution forum. we have understood that some member states were in solidarity; you will have to ensure that this solidarity is actually put in place for people who are in receipt of international protection.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, solidarity has always been a guiding principle of european asylum policy. the distribution of beneficiaries of international protection between the member states is certainly one of the most concrete manifestations of this intra-european solidarity. but a brief look at the statistics does give a good idea of the different possible maps of the asylum situation in europe. malta, one of the most densely populated countries in the world, has the highest number of asylum seekers - we have already mentioned this - in proportion to its population. the latest figures show a rate of almost 22 asylum seekers per 1 000 inhabitants - a different calculation from the one previously made, but it comes back to the same figure - whereas the european average is around 0.5. france, for example, which is the second largest recipient of asylum applications in the european union, in absolute terms, appears in 14th place, when the total population of the countries concerned is used as an indicator. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's asylum policy and to monitor the implementation of the union's asylum policy. pending the legislative proposal, parliament also asked the commission to explore some innovative ways, in particular by examining the various options for a breakdown on the basis of appropriate indicators. so far, the breakdown applies to only one state malta and is limited in terms of the number of persons concerned you have alluded to this , despite the commitment of some member states, which should be welcomed in this respect. this small-scale implementation therefore offers very limited visibility of the value of allocation as an effective tool. in this context, what would explain, among other things, the delay in the commission's publication of a proposal - even though you are making one today - for a voluntary and permanent mechanism? is this the frivolity of many member states, when this mechanism would, let us remember, operate on a voluntary basis? some member states express concern that the states benefiting from such solidarity measures may thereby too easily abdicate their responsibilities in the field of asylum and fail to undertake the necessary reforms. this situation shows how much solidarity with all and responsibility for each individual must go hand in hand. the implementation of the principle of solidarity cannot be conceived without effective harmonization of asylum practices and the reverse is also true.
mr president, in 2010 the european union adopted an ambitious text to regulate audiovisual media activity. apparently, it was a success. it called for better accessibility of european works, greater protection for minors, the promotion of cultural diversity and a limit on inappropriate advertising. i would draw your attention to paragraph 13 of mr borys' report, in which he explicitly calls for media and audiovisual services to be excluded from any trade agreement. on thursday we will vote on the mandate for the free trade agreement with the united states. parliament must be consistent and also ask for the explicit exclusion of audiovisual services from the mandate of this negotiation. an agreement which would include these services would jeopardise the future improvement of the directive under discussion today. if we accept the liberalization of this sector, we are threatening cultural diversity, one of the founding principles of the european construction. let us vote on the question of the united states, keeping in mind the defence of european culture and audiovisual, as stated in the borys report.
in writing. the latest audiovisual media services directive aimed to better reconcile technological developments with the democratic principles of equal access, fair remuneration of authors and protection of freedom of expression, cultural diversity and privacy. the report on the implementation of the directive shows that it has helped to strengthen culture in the audiovisual sector, to protect vulnerable audiences and to improve accessibility for the greatest number of people. other findings, however, call for corrections. firstly, it is necessary to harmonise the application of the rules in the member states, in particular for 'hidden' advertising (in films, programmes, etc.), for mechanisms of media concentration and for accessibility. secondly, self-regulation must give way to coercion, particularly in the area of the protection of minors and alcohol and tobacco advertising. beyond its economic weight, european audiovisual is a strategic sector for our culture but also for the world's cultural diversity. its defence is based on support for european programme quotas and the exclusion of audiovisual media services from trade agreements to guarantee cultural exceptionalism.
mr president, for decades the european industrial sector has been in decline. europe has forgotten its industry, and we are paying a heavy price for this, because we have been too focused on services. florange, good year, peugeot, continental, petroplus, the list of closures in my country is long. what is our response to workers threatened by closure of their site, relocation, unemployment? the geier report gives us some clues. europe acts and invests through the structural funds; eur 330 billion will be allocated to the regions between 2014 and 2020. these funds should be used to support and train the unemployed, to revitalise industrial wastelands and to invest in innovative, sustainable and competitive industries. culture and the creative industries must play their full role in these conversion strategies. the digital economy, high-end crafts, film production, for example, are all activities that help to revive a site and make a territory attractive again. europe must not abandon its industrial zones. she has to invest in their future.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am very pleased to have this opportunity to discuss with you the preparations for tomorrow’s meeting of the european council. as you will be aware, president van rompuy has taken the initiative to organise regular thematic discussions in the european council with the aim of ensuring that all eu policies contribute to promoting the objectives of improved competitiveness, job creation and strong and sustainable economic growth. these debates are important in themselves in ensuring that key horizontal challenges that the union faces are worked through, and that direction is given at the highest level, and beyond the council formation in which they are normally treated, but also in as much as they can feed into a more wide-ranging discussion on the economic and social challenges europe faces and, indeed, into the europe 2020 strategy discussions. tomorrow’s european council will discuss and establish the direction for further work on two policy areas which are of crucial importance to europe’s economy: energy and elements of taxation. on energy, the council will build on the discussion under the irish presidency, including at the informal meeting of energy ministers in dublin recently. ensuring the uninterrupted supply of affordable and sustainable energy is of critical interest to individual citizens who are affected directly by any interruption, or threatened interruption, in supply as well as the impact of high energy prices. they are equally essential for ensuring that industry and the jobs that go with it remain in europe and are an important factor in attracting new industrial investment, and they can therefore be considered as a key condition for a return to growth. in order to secure the objective of affordable and sustainable energy, and to ensure the reliability of supply, we have to meet our objective of completing the internal energy market by 2014 and of developing greater interconnection. tomorrow’s european council will set out the additional work that is required in order to meet these objectives within the agreed time frame. interconnections and the modernisation of energy infrastructure generally require very significant investment. this is largely expected to come from the private sector, which means we must be able to offer a predictable and reliable climate and energy policy framework in which investment can be encouraged. the european council will set priorities for action needed to facilitate investment including the ten-e or structural funds as well as through the eib, and it will also address the regulatory environment and highlight priorities for improvement. particular stress will be placed on the need to improve energy efficiency: the cheapest energy is that which we do not use. innovative financing methods, more systematic supply diversification and improved liquidity in the internal energy market can all contribute to reducing energy costs. the commission has agreed to prepare an analysis of the composition and drivers of energy prices and costs by the end of the year. tomorrow’s european council will also discuss tax issues and in particular the problem of tax evasion. it is crucial, in the current difficult economic climate, to tackle tax evasion and fraud. at a time of fiscal consolidation we must take action to protect revenues if we are to ensure the confidence of citizens in the fairness and effectiveness of our tax systems. this is an issue which has rightly become the focus of public attention and is one to which the presidency attaches particular importance. that is why we support the initiative of president van rompuy to put this issue on the agenda of tomorrow’s european council meeting. it is why minister noonan, as chair of ecofin, together with commissioner šemeta, took the initiative of spelling out key areas where concrete action can be delivered in the short term. we welcome the close interest of parliament on this issue, and i would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the work which mojca kleve kekuš and ildikó gáll-pelcz have put into their respective reports on this subject. tomorrow’s discussion will, in part, build on the very positive outcome on these issues of last week’s ecofin council. for example, the announcement of a pilot facility for the automatic exchange of information between administrations is a useful contribution to further work in this area both within the eu and internationally. at eu level, the commission intends in june to propose amendments to the directive on administrative cooperation in order for the automatic exchange of information to cover the full income range. at international level, the eu will play a key role in supporting and promoting the automatic exchange of information as the new international standard, taking account of existing eu arrangements. following the agreement at ecofin last week on a mandate to update the eu’s agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, monaco, andorra and san marino, we hope that negotiations will begin very soon to ensure that these countries continue to apply measures equivalent to those in the eu. there is also consensus on the scope of the revised directive on the taxation of savings income, which should enable it to be adopted by the council by the end of this year. further work includes measures to counter vat fraud, where the council is due to adopt directives on the quick reaction mechanism and on the reverse charge mechanism by the end of june, and cooperation in the area of tackling aggressive tax planning and profit shifting, both within the eu and more widely. tomorrow’s european council is a relatively short meeting, but the two main issues to be addressed are critical for the future competitiveness of europe. we look forward to constructive discussions and concrete results which we will be taking forward in the months to come.
president of the commission. − mr president, at moments like these, when growth forecasts for the near future are low, our job is to make europe work, to the benefit of european citizens – of all our citizens. on the agenda of this week’s european council meeting are two issues that, technical as they may seem at first, are crucial in that respect. first, energy, where there is so much more benefit to be reaped – both for citizens and for the competitiveness of our businesses – from european integration and investment. second, tax fraud and tax evasion, where by sharpening our common european tools against the tax avoiders we can start to restore the sense of fairness that citizens and small businesses have lost as a result of the financial crisis. at a time when debate about europe is all too often a futile shouting match between believers and non-believers, this is a discussion that separates those who like to talk from those who are willing to act, and those who prefer to attract attention to themselves from those who are determined to achieve results for citizens. i trust that most of us are on the side of the citizens and working for concrete results. we are all very much aware of, and concerned by, the immediate growth prospects for europe. this very challenging outlook should galvanise the efforts of all of us, both at european level and in the member states, to mobilise every growth lever we have at hand and give any impetus we possibly can to help citizens and businesses through these very difficult times. a stronger european energy policy is a particularly important tool to help achieve this. we know that europe is not endowed with abundant natural riches. the global energy equation is changing fast, and if we want to avoid losing in this race for resources, we will have to step up our joint european efforts. while the united states is on its way to becoming a net exporter of gas instead of an importer, as a result of the shale gas boom, europe’s import dependence is further increasing and, for oil and gas, is set to grow to over 80% by 2035. already in 2012, industry gas prices were four times lower in the us than in europe. for electricity prices, the eu is almost twice as expensive as the us. so this is above all a debate about our energy security and our competitiveness. the situation for citizens is also increasingly problematic. energy bills are rising, adding up to a share of between 7% and 17% of average household expenditure in different member states. the weakest income groups are even harder hit. so this is also a debate about social equity. in short: we are in a difficult strategic environment. but we must not be resigned to it. we cannot single-handedly change long-term global trends, but we can clearly influence them by stepping up our european efforts and making our energy policy more secure, competitive and sustainable. of course, different member states have different energy mixes. yet the added value of stronger european integration in this field is evident. let me outline a few urgent steps which i will push for at tomorrow’s summit. first and foremost, it is crucial that we complete our internal energy market by the end of next year, as agreed by heads of state or government. market opening has brought prices down for consumers wherever real opening was achieved. but there is still plenty of room for improvement, including in cross-border trade, integration and fair competition. we urgently need to implement the third energy package to keep prices for our consumers and businesses in check. at the same time, we should also be clear that it is not just commodity prices but policy choices of member states – like taxes, levies, support mechanisms, etc., which have a great impact on price variations – on which we must reflect to avoid fragmentation. in preparation for this european council – since the president of the european council has asked me to make a presentation of these policies – i have distributed to all member states a comparison of the price structure in our member states (it is available to you as well, and i have also sent a copy to the president of the european parliament). it is amazing to see how big the differences are across europe, precisely because of different national policies that in fact make having a completely fragmented internal market in this area almost unavoidable. secondly, we have to push for more public and private investment in energy infrastructure – the backbone of the internal market. the financial crisis has limited the means available for such indispensable investments, but the needs are huge: by 2020, we estimate that eur 1 trillion will be needed in the energy sector. these investments will have to come from the private sector mostly, but the european union can play a key role. remember, we are expecting to devote some eur 5 billion of the next mff to energy interconnections, through the connecting europe facility, which must become operational rapidly. member states can also devote a bigger share of their structural funds to investing in energy and energy efficiency. thirdly, we must continue to strengthen the internal and external diversification of our supplies. this includes tapping new international sources, for instance through the southern gas corridor, which i have been pushing hard and on which we expect decisive decisions soon. it also means speaking with one european voice on global energy matters. internally, it requires a more coordinated approach between member states on the positive rise of renewables. last but not least, we need a balanced, union-wide approach on using the potential of unconventional hydrocarbons, such as shale gas, on which the commission is preparing an initiative. to conclude on energy: the right policies are in place. we know the way forward, but implementation is too slow. there is a clear ‘cost of non-europe’ here. we must do more together to ensure economic competitiveness and energy equity. we are not heading towards an age of cheap energy, but we have the choice between investing scarce resources in our own sustainable and smart energy and paying for imports. for that, we must complete our internal energy market, become more energy-efficient, invest in infrastructure and innovation, exploit renewables more cost-effectively and further diversify our external supplies. these are the policy priorities that i will argue for tomorrow in the european council. the european council will also debate our common engagement against tax fraud and tax evasion. now, as the two reports debated later today make clear, i do not have to convince this house of the urgency of this issue. commissioner šemeta will, later this morning, present the commission’s views on these two very important reports. i would like to thank now their respective rapporteurs, ms mojca kleva kekuš for her report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, and ms ildikó gall-pelcz for her tax report focusing on how to free the european potential for economic growth. as mr šemeta will explain in more detail, the commission is very grateful to parliament for the strong support given in these reports to our joint efforts in this crucially important area. let us not forget that the commission has been putting these issues on the table in very concrete terms for several years now; with our proposal in 2008 to close the gaps in the savings directive; with our proposal in 2011 for a negotiating mandate with neighbouring countries; with our june 2012 communication and the action plan we presented last december; and with our two recommendations on tax havens and on aggressive tax planning, also from last year. we can now see a growing interest in these issues amongst the member states which, frankly, was not there before. therefore let us not miss but seize the favourable momentum to make progress. there are burning questions to which we need to give convincing responses. how can we explain to honest households and businesses feeling the squeeze yet still paying their fair share of taxes that there are other parts of society and enterprise which are deliberately avoiding paying up? how can we justify the fact that fiscal consolidation is requiring member states to make difficult choices to reduce expenditure yet at the same time there are whole piles of cash that should be in the public purse but are never collected? the total loss of revenue due to illegal fraud and unacceptable evasion is estimated to be around eur 1 trillion a year. let us put that into some perspective. eur 1 trillion is nearly double the 2012 combined annual budget deficit of all member states. it is more than the total spent on health across the european union in 2008. it is more than six times the size of the annual budget of the european union. in other words, this money is roughly one multiannual financial framework. and, yes, it is the same amount that i mentioned earlier: the investments necessary to cover the needs in the european energy sector by 2020. that is a huge amount of money to simply let fall through the net. we have already identified most of the actions that are needed to tighten the net – your reports make that clear – yet we face a delivery gap. so our actions at national, european and international levels have to be accelerated and better coordinated. first, at national level, the reform of tax governance and tax administrations will feature prominently in the country specific recommendations the commission will present a few days from now. member states also need to get on and implement the commission’s action plan on tax evasion and avoidance of last december, and our recommendations on tax havens and aggressive tax planning. at european level, we have already built up an impressive toolbox to support member states’ ability to fight tax fraud and evasion. now we need to use it as much as possible and reach agreement without delay on the proposals the commission has already made to go further. that means concluding the negotiations on the revision of the savings taxation directive, further closing loopholes by extending it to investment funds, pensions, innovative financial instruments and payments made through trusts and foundations. tomorrow at the european council, i will push for a political commitment on one very simple principle: that on 1 january 2015 the european union should have automatic exchange of information for all forms of income. the commission will shortly table a proposal to amend the directive on administrative cooperation. this already applies an automatic exchange of information for a range of income, such as employment, pensions and insurance, from 2015. the new proposal will further extend the scope of automatic exchange of information between all member states to cover all relevant types of income, such as dividends and capital gains. with the savings proposal on the table, the existing provisions on administrative cooperation and the forthcoming commission proposal, this is indeed a feasible target – provided the political will is there. the proposals pending on tackling vat fraud, the common consolidated corporate tax base, which will deal with the problems of transfer pricing, and the revision of our anti-money laundering framework also have the potential to make a real difference. i am happy to note the adoption, last week, of a mandate to start negotiations on our savings agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra, monaco and san marino, and i assure you the commission will take forward these negotiations as a priority. but that is no substitute for doing our own homework, namely through the adoption of the savings directive, where we need all the member states to signal their agreement. at global level, the upcoming g8 and g20 summits are an excellent opportunity to make progress, and the eu is taking the lead in this, based on our experience and expertise. let us remember that automatic information exchange has been the underlying principle of our approach since the 2005 savings taxation directive. i want to see this principle of automatic exchange become the standard at international level as well, and we will continue to work together with international partners to keep up the momentum on this. we can only do this if we speak with one voice, if we have done our concrete homework internally, if we speak and act as a union. some member states have signalled their readiness to go further, faster. i really welcome their political engagement. but if we are to be really effective, internally and globally, there is no alternative but to go all the way, together, and build on our common eu framework. to conclude, these two debates are crucial at this time. they matter for our public finances, for our competitiveness, and also for the cost of living of our citizens. even more, they are essential for the credibility of our efforts to fight the crisis, for the political capital we are willing to invest in it and the legitimacy of the demands the crisis makes on those who struggle to pay their energy bills or their taxes. they need any relief they can get – and by confronting the specific challenges of our energy markets, we can make a real difference. they need to know that the burden of the crisis is shouldered by everyone in a fair and equitable manner and that we will act jointly and decisively against those who refuse to carry their fair share of the burden. they need assurance that we can show political leadership and take on the political responsibility to do anything and everything possible to support them. we have debated these issues in the past, and progress has already been made. now is the time to go further: not with more words and further analysis but by approving and implementing concrete proposals and actions. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam minister, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, for several months now we have been talking about the budget. we might think we've forgotten his original calling. the european budget makes it possible to give life to our common policies and to strengthen them. tomorrow the european council will meet to decide on a set of common policies in areas where europe has a fundamental role to play. take the energy sector, for example. we agreed to complete the internal energy market by 2014 and to ensure that by 2015 there are no energy-deprived areas in europe. without europe, this objective cannot be achieved. the numbers speak for themselves. we would need to invest a trillion dollars over the next ten years to avoid a serious energy crisis. i turn to the commissioner; i hope i didn't get the numbers wrong. i agree with the european commission: there are private funds available, but what is missing is the legal certainty that guides such projects and allows them to be launched. an energy project is a long-term project and europe must show that it is committed to sustainability. that is precisely why we need a credible european budget, a budget which allows projects to be launched. since 2009, €4 billion has been used to finance 59 projects in the energy sector. most remarkably, this 4 billion euro has generated almost 20 billion euro of investment. these investments would not have been launched without europe. i shall go even further, ladies and gentlemen. what we need is a real european energy community. this is a design which our former president of parliament, jerzy buzek, particularly cherishes, and he is right! he even makes copies in france. energy is no longer a purely national issue. on the contrary, this sector is an integral part of our single market. now more than ever, we need to realize economies of scale. but we can only achieve this by working together more closely. this is how we will win in research and development, build the necessary infrastructure and, above all, negotiate with suppliers to bring down costs. on energy and trade, we must speak with one voice because a stable supply of energy at low cost must be one of our priorities. today, energy is the source of our economy. it is the engine of the real economy. my friends, it is thanks to europe that we have common policies. a common market is the result of a common effort. the proposals on the table to strengthen the fight against fraud and tax evasion are moving in the right direction. they are necessary for a united europe. we could go a little bit faster. tax evasion affects all the member states. we have free movement of goods and people, services and capital. it makes sense, therefore, that we should also have an exchange of tax information between member states, because tax evasion costs the european union dearly - you said it, josé manuel, more than 1 000 billion euros a year. i think that the commission has a duty to do so. that's the equivalent of what evaporates in a year, but not for everyone, we agree. only action at european level is relevant and effective in dealing with this. this requires the establishment of strict common rules and strong european instruments to enforce them. my group and i, ladies and gentlemen, are constantly advocating for more europe. not because we think that everything should be decided in strasbourg or brussels, but because certain issues can no longer be resolved by individual countries. every day we see that europe is enabling us to meet the challenges of the 21st century, even in times of crisis, whether by guaranteeing our energy independence or by allowing the creation of a genuine single market, including in taxation. we support these objectives because they are part of the europe we believe in. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to make a preliminary remark on energy. companies in germany, for example, are now paying less for energy and electricity than they did five years ago. it is the private consumers who pay much more. i know the big debate is that companies today think they're paying too much. companies think they're paying too much for energy, companies think they're paying too much for workers, companies always think they're paying too much. but it's not what the companies say that's interesting; it's the truth that counts. in fact, if you want to bet on coal, nuclear and shale gas to meet the energy challenge, you go back in time. again, you can invest billions in energy - shale gas - which will end up costing you much more to repair what it destroys than it will bring to the well-being of european citizens. that is why we have to say something very simple about energy: energy must be accessible to all, and the energy poverty of the poorest consumers is a real problem that must be solved, but it cannot be solved without solving the fundamental problem, without admitting that the cheapest energy is energy saving. it's by not spending energy that you're saving money. that is why the real european perspective is the economy and renewable energy. now i would like to say a few words about tax evasion. in this case, things are still quite simple. as far as individuals are concerned, the duty of information is not complicated: whenever someone transfers money to another country, whatever it is, to any island, well, the island or country that receives that money must inform the country of the person in question that the money has been deposited. it's not complicated, though. it is not revolutionary to say: if mr brok, whom i see here, brings 1 euro i do not know where, it is declared that he has brought 1 euro and he will say "but i have paid taxes" and everything is fine. it's okay, he has the right to do that. i mean, it's simple. so for people, i think we know where we're going. for companies, the most important thing about the tax base, however, is to know and also apply a very simple rule: companies pay taxes in the country where they do business. if google makes a turnover of 3 euros in france, well, google has to pay on 3 euros of its turnover taxes in france. and if he makes 1.50 euros in the netherlands, he pays out of 1.50 euros. it's not complicated, though. by doing this, by ensuring the tax base, well, we will get there. it is a rule, and the irish must abide by it, as must the luxembourgers, the swedes and the dutch. and these transfers from one country to another, via foundations in the netherlands, to end up in mauritius, that is what needs to be stopped. transparency is needed: you pay your taxes where you do business. the last point concerns the developing countries. you know that mauritius holds 55% of foreign investment in india. mauritius, with a population of one million! for every person, there are 1,500 businesses in mauritius. and in chile, exxon, for 26 years, didn't pay a cent of tax on its mines, not a cent, because that company was moving the proceeds of its sales to a tax haven and therefore, it wasn't making a profit. when, in the end, it sold its mines back to chile, it sold them back for one billion eight hundred thousand dollars -- that means it made a profit -- but it didn't pay, for 26 years, a single cent of tax in chile. this is what needs to stop. you have to stop and say, "where you do business, you pay your taxes". whether in europe or anywhere in the world, when people want to invest money in another country, there is automatic information, and the tax problem will be solved in three years. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the european parliament for its very active involvement in the development of tax policy initiatives. as president barroso rightly mentioned, today’s debate comes at a very crucial moment ahead of the european council. at last week’s ecofin, the member states agreed on conclusions to follow up the commission’s action plan on fighting tax fraud and tax evasion. i cannot hide the fact that i would have hoped for greater ambition, more binding commitments and more stringent timelines. overall, although progress has been achieved by granting the commission a mandate to launch negotiations with switzerland and other third countries, the revised savings directive remains on the council’s table. today i would like to reiterate my call for its quick adoption in order to put us on the right footing to engage in ambitious talks with our neighbours. in this context i very much welcome your support, as expressed in the reports prepared by ms kleva kekuš and ms gáll-pelcz. in the field of tax fraud and tax evasion, the commission’s expectations are compatible with those of parliament. first, like us, you call for progress on pending legislative files. the commission welcomes parliament’s call for the swift adoption of the commission’s proposals, such as the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), the quick reaction mechanism to tackle carousel vat fraud, and the savings directive i have just mentioned. second, like us you call for improved tools to enhance transparency. we need to accelerate our collective move towards the automatic exchange of information in as wide a field as possible. the eu has a lot of experience, and there is clearly room for progress. the commission will shortly propose extending the automatic exchange of information as widely as possible over revenues under the administrative cooperation directive. you also call for enhanced transparency and accountability for businesses. progress has already been made on country-by-country reporting with the capital requirements and accounting directives. i know that commissioner barnier is committed to considering a further extension after an initial period of implementation. on beneficial ownership, the amended savings directive already foresees stronger ways to ensure the taxation of trusts and foundations. in addition, the proposal to revise the anti-money laundering directive would introduce an obligation on companies and trustees to obtain and hold adequate information on beneficial ownership. the debate is open, and the discussion should lead to an ambitious result, ensuring that the information gathered by companies on their own beneficial ownership is accurate and easy to access by the competent authorities. thirdly, like us, you call for improved tools for use against uncooperative jurisdictions. you want stronger sanctions to be applicable to non-compliant companies or jurisdictions, and we agree. exclusion from public procurement procedures when the authorities are convinced that tax fraud has been committed, and the suspension of banking licences for those guilty of helping clients commit tax fraud, are legitimate measures. i should also point out that we recommend that member states suspend or terminate double tax conventions with non-compliant jurisdictions. on the issue of blacklisting uncooperative jurisdictions, the commission has proposed strict common criteria and a strong coordinated process. member states themselves have the information needed to apply the criteria. the commission, through the tax good governance platform that i recently created, will ensure uniform application of these criteria, leading to a coherent and common blacklisting procedure. let me now finish with a few words on the wider issue of tax coordination in the eu. i believe we must maintain pressure on our member states to improve the quality of their tax systems, as well as the information available to individuals and enterprises with respect to their taxation rules, requirements and regulations. as you know, the commission is currently studying the national reform programmes submitted by the member states. at the end of this month we will be issuing a new set of country-specific recommendations, taking into account the situation of each member state and putting specific emphasis on the efficiency and fairness of tax reforms. as you rightly pointed out, a one-size-fits-all approach is not possible in this field. the report on the contribution of tax policy to economic growth that you will adopt today will provide useful input in this work.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, commissioners, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, what a waste of time! it took a combination of several crises, the financial and economic destabilisation of the european union and the fatca initiative for this major issue to finally be on the agenda of our three institutions. the problem of tax havens is not just a technical one. it refers to fundamental choices. do we want to ensure that all our companies and citizens contribute equally to the financing of our social models that will shape the future? do we want to end the confiscation of the resources of developing countries? yes and three times yes! let's stop playing the hypocrite. tax havens are not limited to small tropical islands. it is also a european problem. the council is composed of several of these tax havens. ladies and gentlemen, let us declare war on tax evasion. we can impose automatic exchange of information. we should require intermediaries to report the beneficial owners of offshore structures. let's extend transparency, country by country, to multinationals and highlight the scale of transfer pricing manipulation. finally, let us provide the european union with its own blacklist and accompany it with an effective system of sanctions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would say to the council and the commission that if you have heard what has been said in this house this morning, you must know that you will never have such a consensus on a european issue. there is a consensus on the need to fight tax fraud and evasion, and this implies an obligation for both of you to act, an interactive mandate to act. we all agree here that we europeans would obviously be more credible if we did not have tax havens on our own soil, to say that we must move towards automatic exchange of information, to say that we must move towards lifting banking secrecy, and to add that a company can no longer continue to make profits in a european country without paying tax there. and so, tomorrow, what we want, what we demand, is concrete action, decisions, because the only answer to the european citizens' disillusionment with europe is precisely that europe should regain its capacity to act, that europe should become effective again.
mr president, commissioner, as you know, this european parliament is determined to do what is, at last, a priority for the european union today. but, as you know, the last ecofin council left us with a bitter taste because at a time when the pressure on the budgets of the member states is such that it is hard to imagine two of us resisting on the grounds that we should wait for the agreement of the others. this little game of mystification, we've known about it for far too long. he didn't lead us anywhere. meanwhile, the united states, with which some want to draw up major strategic agreements, has taken the lead. it's time we caught up. it is time we adopted our own definitions, as my colleague kleva kekuš's excellent report calls for, in favour of a genuine definition of a blacklist and non-cooperative territories. it is also time to get rid of the so-called automatic exchange of information, without making it dependent on hypothetical agreements with third countries over which we have no power of intervention. it is also time for the member states to finally follow the example of the european parliament, which for so many years has taken the position of an effective revision of the directive on taxation of savings, because otherwise all our efforts to revive activity, to revive investment, will be reflected in more evasion, and that is not the aim of our mobilization. finally, i would add that, in terms of mobilisation, the european trade union confederation, in the position it adopted to inform the work of the next european council, clearly identified the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion as a top priority. we have a collective obligation to act and to achieve results. i would like to thank you for your courage, commissioner.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, i will say simple things, because when the situation is complicated, simple things are needed. of course, we need fair taxation. but taxation is not a moral issue. the incantation is intellectually satisfying, but we can see that, so far, it hasn't had much effect. the real question is whether the tax collection is effective. it was said in the mid-19th century in france: there are public expenditures, and they must be covered. well, today the public authorities must ensure that the tax is collected in the best possible way, and they set the rules. and she really needs that perception to be total. on the other hand, the taxpayer may be tempted to avoid paying the tax. in this respect, a distinction must be made between fraud and evasion; i think the combination of the two words is not happy. fraud is a crime that is punishable. criminals and their accomplices must be prosecuted and severely punished. national laws provide for this. europe must reinforce this situation by imposing a very strong obligation of mutual assistance between the various states in prosecuting fraudsters. the situation is different with regard to tax evasion. it proceeds, depending on the point of view, from tax optimisation or aggressive tax planning. and already, when you play with words, you realize that things are not clear. only by examining the causes can solutions be found to this tax avoidance. the causes are quite simple: the complexity of national systems, the technical nature of the arrangements and the disparities between national situations. this allows those who are tax specialists to navigate the pitfalls. so we have to deal with the consequences. and again, things are pretty simple. it is clear that tax rules need to be better harmonised. that is what our fellow citizens expect. that's what they ask us every time we talk to them. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. what our citizens expect is credibility.
mr president, commissioner, i wanted to emphasize here that you have not waited for certain cases to act and to try to improve things on the tax front. we are grateful to you. i believe that, as jean-paul gauzès has said, we must distinguish between fraud and evasion. i would just like to say one thing about fraud: we must ensure that governments do not simply make verbal commitments. we must succeed in amending the directive on the taxation of savings. you will see, they will make you three promises, but we know what is happening in the european council... i wanted to talk about the escape, though. i think we really need a certain amount of harmonization in the internal market. it is inconceivable that the market continues to face a gaping hole in taxation and that there is no common base, at least for corporate taxation. if i may conclude on one point, an important one is to make the governance of the euro area sound, because we cannot ask the taxpayers of certain countries - and i am turning to you, madam minister - to help countries in difficulty which, on their part, totally refuse to submit to fiscal harmonization.
mr president, madam president, madam minister, commissioners, energy and the lisbon treaty give the european union new powers, particularly in the area of network security and interconnection. i would like to congratulate the president of the european council who, following up on the february 2011 meeting, raised this issue. energy is often war. let's remember the gulf war. it is an economic problem, with the competitive implications that it entails, as everyone has said. it's an environmental and climate problem. it is also a social problem, since it represents 7 to 17% of the budget of our fellow citizens. it is a political problem: we have seen, with the early elections in bulgaria, the political movements it can engender. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner oettinger, because you have done a remarkable job. that's good. here are some thoughts. the first observation is that energy is a global problem. we europeans are right to give a european response. the european council is the right level to decide on the political strategy for the continent. yes to a european energy community, but with a parliamentary dimension and not just an intergovernmental one. secondly, it would be a great risk to link only energy and climate. energy is also a problem which is linked to the competitiveness of our industry. how are we going to sustain our industry with energy that is twice as expensive as the united states? my third observation concerns energy sources and energy transitions. we have so many sources: fossil energy, of course, but also nuclear, hydropower, solar. let's not forget deep geothermal, hydrogen, iter. it's the scientific genius that will get us through these times. finally, as regards infrastructure, we need infrastructure plans. i propose that we consider the pooling of major infrastructures in a european public company, which would be under the control of the european commission and financed by a voluntary contribution from consumers. finally, i hope that the heads of state will also consider the communityisation of the euratom treaty. this is a subject which has never been discussed at the level of heads of state and we have an expectation of the parliamentary dimension of the euratom treaty.
in writing. tax evasion and tax fraud in europe amounts to €1 billion a year, the equivalent of the eu budget for 7 years! this is huge! action is urgently needed to avoid further losses for governments, which are now doing even more damage to the european citizens already suffering from austerity measures. it is true that the union has developed several instruments in recent years to deal with the problem: the savings agreements signed with switzerland and four other tax havens, the directive on administrative cooperation in direct taxation which has been in force since the beginning of the year, the directive on the taxation of savings to organise the exchange of information between national tax authorities. if all this is praiseworthy, it is not enough. austria and luxembourg continue to make the lifting of banking secrecy in their countries conditional on an equivalent commitment on the swiss side. how is it possible that the automatic exchange of information within the european framework is less successful than the exchange between the united states and europe, in that it does not include pension funds, for example?
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which approves the conclusion of the eu-sri lanka agreement of 27 september 2012 on certain aspects of air services. the agreement allows european airlines to operate flights to sri lanka from countries with which sri lanka has a bilateral agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the single agreement to regulate air services between sri lanka and the eu. sri lanka had signed some 15 bilateral agreements to administer the right of establishment and access to air services between the eu and third countries. this single agreement concluded on behalf of the union will therefore simplify the rules between the two parties. i have approved this report because it is balanced in the light of the commitments of both parties. it provides access to air links without discrimination and has no adverse impact on the european budget.
in writing. with this agreement, we will now have a solid basis for our aviation relations with sri lanka. the first beneficiaries will be union carriers, which will have access to an increasing number of air routes. this agreement therefore contributes to our competitiveness and to the development of our international economic relations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will allow the european union and sri lanka to strengthen their airline cooperation while avoiding any anti-competitive practices. the two parties will thus be able, with the signing of this agreement, to trade freely on a clear and solid legal basis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation proposed by the council on the agreement between the european union and sri lanka on certain aspects of air services. the partnership aims to replace the previous bilateral agreements between the member states and sri lanka by a joint eu-wide agreement with sri lanka. the agreement will provide a single legal basis for european airlines to offer transport services with the third country without discrimination. the users will also be able to benefit from services under the best possible conditions.
in writing. the eurocontrol organisation (or european organisation for the safety of air navigation) was founded in 1963 to play a role in the management of european air traffic. the agreement presented to the european parliament was aimed at creating greater links between eurocontrol and the eu. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that any initiative aimed at achieving a genuine single european sky must be supported.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to the implementation of the single european sky project, through enhanced cooperation between eurocontrol and the european union. the aim of this project is to establish common air traffic management rules in the european union, which will only be possible under the supervision of a technical and operational body such as eurocontrol. it was therefore necessary to reach an agreement to list the areas of cooperation and define the mechanisms for implementing the project.
in writing. this agreement will allow us to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the european organisation for air safety, which should allow us to move more rapidly towards the achievement of a single european sky. the first beneficiaries will of course be the europeans, who will benefit from increased safety and efficiency in the use of airspace and in the management of air traffic. this will include better use of existing resources, for example by avoiding duplication of eurocontrol's and the agency's work on safety or environmental issues. this increased efficiency is the guarantee of a stronger european aviation industry and is therefore an asset for our competitiveness and jobs.
in writing. having been an active participant in the committee on transport in the establishment of the single european sky, i felt obliged to vote in favour of this text, which aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and eurocontrol. this rapprochement with eurocontrol will enable the european union to accelerate and deepen the implementation of the single european sky and will thus ensure greater aviation safety and better airspace and air traffic management.
in writing. the european organisation for the safety of air navigation (eurocontrol) plays a key role in the management of air traffic in europe. the european union also designated it as the evaluation body for the single european sky policy which was implemented in 2010. i have found no reason to oppose this text, which proposes to strengthen cooperation between the european union and eurocontrol. given its initial mission, the latter seems to me to be the most competent body to support the implementation of the single european sky and the related union policies.
in writing. i supported the proposal to strengthen cooperation between the eu and the european organisation for air safety (eurocontrol). under the mandate of the european commission, eurocontrol (ngo) is a key player in the evaluation and development of the single european sky (ses) policy. the objective of enhanced cooperation is to improve the quality and safety of european air transport through the technical and operational support of this body.
in writing. i voted in favour of updating the regulation which obliged the eu institutions to keep the archives of the eu and its predecessor structures (ecsc, euratom) and to make them accessible to all after a period of 30 years. this deposit contract expired, and the university institute of florence was confirmed as the manager of the historical archives of the institutions.
the historical archives of the european union are a unique resource for anyone who wants to know our history and follow the thread of our progress. it is therefore essential not only to conserve them but above all to ensure their preservation and access. the agreement will provide a clearer legal and financial framework for conservation, facilitating cooperation between the european union and the european university institute in florence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens cooperation between the european union and the european university institute in florence by clarifying the legal and financial framework. in the interests of transparency and truth in the history of european integration, the history of the union and its institutions must be accessible to all. it therefore seemed necessary to change the system of funding these archives in order to preserve information and ensure better access to these archives. europeans share a common history and it seems essential to ensure that it is passed on to future generations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment to the regulation on the deposit of the historical archives of the european institutions. the regulation provides that the eu institutions deposit their archives at the european university institute in florence in order to preserve them and make them freely available to european citizens. the revised version voted this week in strasbourg focuses on the digitisation of historical archives. the european citizens will thus have free access to these documents via the internet.
in writing. this proposal to amend the regulation on the deposit of the historical archives of the institutions of the european union at the european university institute in florence is nothing new. the ambition to make all archives accessible via the internet is commendable in itself but it is worthless if the documents are not fully translated into all languages. this report does not call for it. i abstain to encourage the intention but denounce this inadmissible shortcoming.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the role of the university institute of florence as guardian of the european archives. since 1983, regulation 354/83/eec, euratom has required the institutions of the union to establish public archives for documents more than 30 years old. the council and the commission agreed in 1984 with the italian state that it would provide free of charge premises located at the european university institute (eui). however, this contract has expired and should be renewed. the new terms confirm the role of the florence institute as the manager of the historical archives of the institutions. the report states that the institute is to be financed from the general budget of the union with a contribution proportionate to the number of archives deposited. and above all, it obliges all eu institutions, with the exception of the ecb and the court of justice, to make their archives public.
in writing. the european parliament was called upon to decide on the dates of the next european elections. i voted in favour of the council text which proposed, at the request of the european parliament, to bring forward the european elections to may. this new date should reduce the abstention rates in some member states, since the dates originally chosen (5 to 8 june) corresponded to the long weekend of pentecost. this decision will also facilitate the appointment of future members of the european commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council decision postponing the european elections by direct universal suffrage to the period from 22 to 25 may 2014. the original date had been changed and it was up to the council, acting unanimously after consulting the european parliament, to decide on a new date for these european elections. this date fits perfectly into the french electoral calendar, between the municipal and the senatorial elections.
in writing. we have a clear objective for the next european elections: to mobilise europeans. in order to give them a chance to express their vision of europe, i support the idea that the date of the elections should be changed so that they do not coincide with the pentecost weekend. the european parliament has, since the treaty of lisbon, played a much more important role in the daily lives of europeans, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that they can express their views on election day.
in writing. while the last european elections confirmed a growing disinterest of european citizens since the first direct universal suffrage elections in 1979, we must now give ourselves the means to reverse this trend. that is why i have given my full support to this resolution, which aims to ensure optimal conditions for these elections by bringing them forward to the period from 22 to 25 may 2014, as requested by the european parliament on 22 november 2012. the aim is to put all the odds in our favor, excluding a period that is not very conducive to electoral participation, the dates of 5-8 june 2014 coinciding with the weekend of pentecost and with a period of school holidays for many european countries. in addition, this change will give the new parliament more time to prepare for the election of the president of the european commission in july 2014. but beyond the question of dates, a sound communication policy should be put in place as soon as possible to make all our citizens aware of the role played by the european parliament in the european decisionmaking process, in the service of their rights, otherwise, once again, the winner of this election could well be abstention.
in writing. in accordance with article 11 (2) of the electoral act, the council may, under certain conditions, change the dates of the european elections at least one year before the end of the five-year term. the council's draft envisages moving the date of the next european elections from 5 to 8 june to 22 and 25 may, following the request of the european parliament, made in its resolution adopted in november 2012. i voted in favour of the text because i think that this request is entirely justified. the european parliament, the only institution of the european union elected by direct universal suffrage and representing citizens, wants to move the elections forward to give the next meps more time to prepare for the election of the new president of the european commission in july 2014.
in writing. with the majority of my colleagues, i voted for the dates of the next elections to our parliamentary assembly, the only european institution elected by direct universal suffrage. the elections will be held from 22 to 25 may 2014. in france we will vote on sunday, may 25. we have decided to move the dates forward, initially to june, in order to give parliament more time to fulfil its new role in the election of the future president of the european commission. since the lisbon treaty, parliament has the power to invest or not the future president of the european commission, who will be proposed by the european council but will have to be chosen from the political family that will win the elections to the european parliament. this new power, together with the power to appoint the college of commissioners after hearing them one by one, will help to continue the movement towards strengthening the role of the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report 'period for the eighth election of the representatives of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage' so that the next european elections take place between 22 and 25 may 2014 in the countries of the union. these dates were chosen to correspond to the largest number of european voters, and that they do not coincide with a public holiday, which would affect the turnout.
in writing. the period from thursday 5 to sunday 8 june 2014 traditionally devoted to the european elections falls on a pentecost weekend, i.e. i agree with changing the date of the elections so as not to encourage further voter defection than the austerity policies, which the outgoing liberal majority endorses, are already doing. i regret, however, that, because of a hidden institutional necessity linked to the number of commissioners, the council and parliament have chosen to move the date forward rather than delay it. in france, this will shorten the period of the european campaign, which is nevertheless a crucial one. i am voting against this text, as opposed to the date chosen which does not take into account the interests of french voters.
in writing. for this report, the european parliament supports the proposal to move the date of the european elections to between 22 and 25 may 2014. as you may recall, the last european elections were held in france on 7 june 2009. although it is not possible to adapt the electoral situation in each member state, this will bring the elections even closer to the municipal elections in france and thus reduce the campaign on european issues to a grief-stricken level. it is true that to ensure a high voter turnout, it is not desirable that the european elections take place during the period from 5 to 8 june 2014, i.e. the weekend of pentecost. but the real reason is to allow the new european commission to be installed before the summer, knowing that the european parliament will have, under the lisbon treaty, increased powers in this area. i have therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. this text concerns the defence of the parliamentary immunity of gabriele albertini, italian member of the european people's party. mr. albertini is being held in the milan court for statements about the prosecutor alfredo robledo. i have decided to support the request for the defence of gabriele albertini's immunity, on the basis of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, which provides that 'members of the european parliament may not be subject to any search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they have expressed in the course of their duties'.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of the immunity of spyros danellis, who is accused of having 'failed to fulfil his obligations by failing, in his capacity as mayor of hersonissos (iraklion prefecture), to take the necessary measures to close an establishment operating in the municipality, despite the decision taken by the health authorities to that effect'. the facts alleged against mr danellis do not relate to an opinion or vote delivered in the course of his duties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of spyros danellis. parliamentary immunity is a right which aims to protect elected members of the european parliament from external pressure and to guarantee their independence. this does not in any way mean a right to impunity, since meps are obliged to respect european legislation just like any other citizen of the union. if immunity is waived, the member retains his mandate but the competent authority of his state may investigate and prosecute him if he has committed a clear breach of eu law.
in writing. mr spyros danellis is accused of having failed to fulfil his duties as mayor of hersonissos. his parliamentary immunity would therefore not protect him from legal action. i vote for the impeachment of mr. spyros danellis, so that justice can be served.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of the immunity of spyros danellis, who is accused of having "falsely accused a third party of having committed an illegal act with the intention of having him prosecuted for that act, and of having made false statements about a third party which could damage the reputation and renown of that party, knowing that the statement was false". the facts alleged against mr danellis do not relate to an opinion or vote delivered in the course of his duties.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my colleague klaus-heiner lehne, which states that more precise data should be available to determine whether the directive on takeover bids needs to be revised or amended, or whether further harmonisation measures are needed. this directive, adopted in 2004, coordinates the rules on public offers to acquire the securities of companies, where at least part of their securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market.
in writing. the eu adopted a directive on takeover bids in 2004 to coordinate the rules on company securities under the law of the member states. it was up to parliament to decide on the proper application of the directive. i voted in favour of this report because it advocated a postponement of this evaluation. in fact, in view of the financial and economic turmoil of the last five years, i felt that we did not have enough data to make a fair and balanced assessment now.
in writing. the apa directive aims to ensure a level playing field for all public takeover bids in europe, the supervision of which plays a key role in the evolution of the corporate control market. this text underlines the usefulness of the directive and indicates the avenues which still need to be explored or developed: consideration of supervision at union level, or the new problems arising from the revision of the functioning of the directive. it stresses in particular the importance of taking adequate account of the rights of employees affected by these operations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the application of directive 2004/25/ec on takeover bids. as the rapporteur points out, this directive, adopted in 2003, introduces harmonisation rules on public procurement tenders and thus responds to a strong demand within the eu. the commission recommends the introduction of new common rules to ensure that the directive applies to as many public procurement tenders as possible, including the most complex ones.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by the socialist member of parliament, jens geier, which examines the situation of formerly industrialised regions which are now suffering from deindustrialisation. the report stresses in particular 'the need to provide assistance in the development of regional strategies' for these areas. i believe that any initiative that can be taken to help these regions in difficulty must be supported. i also regret, as does the rapporteur, that the available structural and investment funds are not being fully exploited.
in writing. this report calls on the commission to define policy concepts and instruments combining the principles of cohesion policy and industrial policy to help former industrialised regions to undergo structural transformation to become modern industrial regions. as a member of the employment committee, i could only welcome this initiative which aims to reindustrialise our regions by using their territorial assets and cultural heritage, and thus to meet the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the geier report, which urges greater consideration of regional specificities in the use of the structural funds, in the case of industrial zones. these have specific problems in connection with their conversion, but they have a very rich and long-standing industrial heritage which can serve as a springboard. i am therefore convinced, as the rapporteur is, that the commission must propose integrated instruments and approaches to transform these disaster areas into modern industrial areas.
in writing. europe must quickly adopt a voluntary and ambitious industrial strategy if it is to get back on track with growth and job creation. this requires the use of the tools available, in particular those of cohesion policy. it is time to consider our industrial and regional development objectives in an integrated way, because they can reinforce each other: the industrialisation of a territory is the key to its development and cohesion. i particularly support the emphasis in this text on the importance of an integrated approach which includes both training and education, with a focus on youth employment and smes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls on the commission to take the necessary measures to reconvert or reindustrialise industrial regions hit by the economic crisis. the european union has a key role to play here. it must coordinate its cohesion policy and its industrial policy in order to deal with the problems of unemployment, poverty and development which the citizens of these regions face on a daily basis.
in writing. in these times of crisis which are deeply affecting europe, while economic growth in the united states, china and the emerging powers has started to increase, the european union must revise its economic development strategy, focusing on employment, the competitiveness of enterprises and the reindustrialisation of the territory. while industry has been growing exponentially in the united states, it is declining in europe, now accounting for only 16% of gdp. in germany, the share of industry is 21% of gdp, it is only about 12% in france, in fifteenth position in the euro zone. in the face of this alarming decline, it is urgent that we devise a genuine industrial strategy at european union level based on the revival of investment in leading sectors, the mobilisation of energies, support for innovation and easier access to finance and capital markets. we must also mobilise existing instruments, in particular the structural funds, because the regions know the potential of their territories and can make a useful contribution to defining the industrial restructuring and specialisation strategy best suited to their needs.
in writing. industry is one of the sectors that has been hit hardest by the economic crisis. it is difficult today for former industrial areas to revive their activities, which are often in structural decline. i believe that regional policy is one of the best tools for renewing these sectors, and it is essential to do this by better managing the structural funds allocated by the regions. this text, which i voted in favour of, goes in that direction and also stresses the need to take account of the particularities of each territory in order to find the most appropriate strategy for developing industry.
in writing. i supported the report on regional strategies for industrial zones within the european union. the effects of the crisis on industry have accelerated the decline of certain economic sectors and, consequently, of a growing number of regions in europe which depend on these stressed sectors. in the face of this challenge, it is essential that the european union upholds and adapts its industrial policy. the aim of this report is to adapt and optimise the european cohesion funds devoted to the conversion of regions in difficulty. in particular, it provides for a reorientation of regional financing and the establishment of a new regional strategy to bring about industrial conversion towards the growth sectors.
in writing. suspending economic benefits to encourage a state to follow the path of democracy is a common practice and often successful. burma is a good example of this. the european union had chosen to temporarily suspend the benefit of generalised preferences in 1997 because of widespread forced labour practices. it is clear that this tactic has borne fruit: democratization is underway in myanmar, although efforts are still needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. this is especially so as the measure will promote myanmar's exports in the textile sector. we know from experience that economic development is conducive to democratic progress.
in writing. i welcome the remarkable work of my colleague ivo belet in this report which draws lessons from various disasters that have occurred on offshore oil and gas platforms. every effort must be made to avoid ecological disasters such as the one that occurred in 2010 when the deepwater horizon oil rig exploded in the gulf of mexico. i voted in favour of his proposals, which aim in particular to strengthen the liability of oil companies in the event of a major ecological disaster by requiring them to prove that they have sufficient financial capacity to bear the costs of a possible incident. i also voted in favour of tightening the conditions for oil companies to obtain a drilling licence. this is the price we must pay to avoid new disasters with unbearable ecological costs.
in writing. in response to the 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico, we agreed at first reading on the proposal for a directive on the 'security of offshore oil and gas exploration, production and production activities' to reduce the risks and consequences of major accidents in eu waters. i voted in favour of this text, which represents a step forward in the area of the liability of operators for damage to the environment. but there are still some dark spots. for example, we were only 153 members of parliament to vote in favour of a moratorium on mining activities in the immediate vicinity of areas that are particularly touristic, unstable or where the impact on coastal communities and the environment would be devastating. even fewer (129) voted in favour of the precautionary principle for this type of activity in the arctic, a particularly vulnerable area to human activities, which was intended to prohibit it until effective intervention in the event of accidents was guaranteed. although the union remains a pioneer in environmental protection, the scope of this text remains limited in that the risk of major accidents is still not eliminated.
in writing. i voted in favour of the introduction of legislation on offshore oil and gas activities. this is the first time the eu has legislated on this subject, through a directive. we have insisted on the need for a separation between the body responsible for the security of operations and the one responsible for its economic development in order to avoid any conflict of interest. many incidents with massive environmental consequences, such as the bp oil rig explosion in the gulf of mexico in 2010, have shown the need for strict regulation of offshore activities. parliament today committed itself to securing offshore activities by requiring operators to provide proof of their financial capacity to cover any damage caused and to submit an internal emergency response plan and a major hazard report.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the security of offshore oil and gas activities. it was imperative that parliament should address this issue to avoid major accidents on drilling rigs with serious environmental and economic consequences. the good practices that this report calls for to be shared seem to me to be full of good sense: an increased eu capacity to intervene in emergencies, clarification of legal provisions on liability/compensation, sharing of good practices by the oil and gas industry in terms of risk management, and sharing of good regulatory practices between european jurisdictions. i also welcome the increased role of the european maritime safety authority. the very short transposition period will also require member states to take responsibility.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of new rules governing offshore oil and gas platforms. the initial objective was to ensure, according to commissioner oettinger, that a disaster like the deepwater horizon in the gulf of mexico in 2010 could not take place in european waters. the text voted on is unfortunately not very comprehensive. offshore mining is a dangerous activity that requires a strong regulatory framework. environmental amendments were voted on in the envi committee, including a moratorium on drilling in the arctic and the introduction of financial and civil liability for industrialists. these positive achievements were rejected in three trialogue meetings with the council - under the cypriot and then irish presidencies. i regret that these concessions were made under the influence of industry and the member states directly concerned by these drilling (denmark, the netherlands, the united kingdom). the independence of safety assessments can no longer be guaranteed. the european maritime safety agency (emsa) should have been given more powers for supervision and certification. although the world is on the verge of an oil boom, oil rigs continue to be used and threaten the seabed and coastlines.
in writing. offshore oil and gas activities can be the cause of real disasters: an accident can destroy an entire coastal or marine environment, and the economies that depend on it. it has become necessary to secure these operations. the aim of this text is twofold: not only to reduce the number of accidents by working on prevention, but also to reduce their scale by responding quickly and better to their consequences. by emphasizing the special attention that must be paid to the arctic, this text makes the choice that europeans expect from us for the protection of this unique, but so vulnerable and threatened, ecosystem. i think that these provisions were sufficient to take account of this issue, and that is why i opposed the amendments proposed by the green group, which attempted to introduce into the text issues which would have to be settled at the level of the states concerned and of international bodies, in particular the arctic council.
in writing. in the face of the scale of the damage caused by the 2010 bp deepwater horizon oil rig fire in the gulf of mexico, it was vital that the eu put in place measures to ensure the safety of offshore oil and gas platforms with very high environmental risks. companies must be held directly liable for any damage caused by their operations and will now have to prove that they have the financial capacity to cover such damage. they will also be required to submit hazard reports and contingency plans before operations begin. these new standards will also help to overcome the fragmentation of the regulatory framework governing the safety of offshore oil and gas operations in europe.
in writing. following the explosion on the deepwater horizon platform in 2010 in the gulf of mexico, which caused a black tide of 4.9 million barrels of crude oil, the commission presented a text aimed at reducing the risks of major accidents linked to oil and gas activities and, above all, limiting their consequences. it is in the name of preserving the environment and the precautionary principle that i voted in favour of this text, which will make it possible to increase the safety of these platforms and also to take greater account of the victims of disasters.
in writing. on 21 may, the european parliament delivered its opinion on offshore oil exploration and production. the first amendment adopted by the commission is more than harmful to the protection of the environment and the safety of workers on the platforms, by turning the draft regulation into a directive. this change is not a trivial one, since it will allow the text to be applied in a variable geometry, depending on how the different member states apply it. a regulation would have allowed for the same application to all, for issues which are in fact transnational in nature. secondly, although i had asked for it, the application of the seveso standards on industrial accidents was rejected, whereas it would have allowed for better supervision and much stricter protection of nature and man. finally, and this is the most important point, the protection of employees is only dealt with very briefly in this text, in a few sentences... the health and safety of workers on the platforms is far too important to be dealt with by a quick spray, without concrete and strong measures. for these reasons i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. offshore drilling activities are essential for the exploitation of deepwater oil and gas reserves. but in such a sensitive field of activity, any accident would have irreversible consequences for our environment, leading to a new ecological catastrophe. it is therefore necessary to draw up rules to prevent any risk of accidents. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which sets minimum european standards for oil and gas safety. such legislation will make it possible to clarify the liability of the operators concerned and to better assess the risks of accidents.
in writing. i supported the report on offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production. indeed, the risks associated with these activities are of major importance as evidenced by the dramatic environmental and economic consequences of the deepwater horizon case in the gulf of mexico in 2010. regulation at eu level is therefore needed to regulate oil and gas extraction activities in european seas. we propose to establish a set of minimum european standards for oil and gas safety. the directive also aims to deepen cooperation between national supervisory authorities and provides for a crisis management mechanism, in partnership with the european maritime safety agency.
in writing. following her intervention in plenary on this subject, corinne lepage wishes to clarify that she was the lawyer for the municipalities affected by erika and was the lawyer for the municipality of mesquer in the context of the cjeu decision (case c-188/07).
in writing. the report acknowledges that there is no zero risk in offshore oil and gas exploration and production. but he doesn't get the consequences he deserves. far from prohibiting drilling in our seas, this report has the inconsequence of weakening the very minimalist draft regulation of the european commission. it reduced its binding nature by converting it into a draft directive. in this way, it also delays its application. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the possibility of the member states to grant licences to companies operating offshore oilfields. this text predicts further black tides and further destruction of marine ecosystems. it is contrary to the general interest of mankind. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the recommendations contained in it make it possible to improve the security of our oil and gas installations. it was also very important to me that the employees were involved in this process of securing safety, and that is exactly what this report advocates. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. i voted against the report on offshore oil and gas exploration and production activities, because it is far from sufficient. apart from a few suggestions for repairing the damage caused by oil accidents, this report does not address the real issues and risks of offshore oil and gas exploitation. on the contrary, instead of protecting the environment, the safety of workers and the rights of citizens, the report protects the big oil companies and their interests. it seems that the gulf of mexico oil spill and its devastating effects on the environment and on the surrounding populations were not a lesson learned. in guyana, if the oil companies, in addition to not creating jobs to the extent that they could by training young guyanese, are not bound by strict and strong rules, we are heading for disaster.
in writing. the european union has learned from the environmental disaster caused by the bp oil rig fire in the gulf of mexico in 2010. i therefore voted in favour of this report which sets out stricter safety rules for offshore platforms. this directive lays down in particular minimum standards for the safety of offshore oil and gas drilling, licensing procedures, emergency plans and information-sharing obligations. these standards also provide for the obligation to study the financial solvency of applicants in the event of economic and ecological damage. european companies will be obliged to report on all incidents on their platforms, even if they are not located in a maritime zone of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the directive on offshore oil and gas drilling. it is designed to protect the environment and ensure the safety of the personnel working there. the 2010 disaster in the united states, which saw some 780 million litres of oil spilled into the gulf of mexico, is a reminder of the need to ensure the sustainable operation of this industry. the directive provides that before a drilling permit is obtained, companies will have to submit, in consultation with the staff, an assessment report of the 'major hazards' and contingency plans to deal with any eventuality. in addition, companies will have to be able to prove, before operation, their ability to repair the damage their operations might cause. at national level, member states will also have responsibilities, such as preparing response plans, which will be reviewed by the european maritime safety agency (emsa). such measures seem to me appropriate and just, and i would be of the opinion that we should take comparable measures concerning the safety of ships at sea by recognising in european law the concepts of 'ecological damage' and 'chain of responsibility', as recognised by the court of cassation.
in writing. this report seemed to be well-intentioned in proposing to set out the conditions for offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities, but was emptied of its contents during negotiations with the council. the moratorium on drilling in the arctic zone, which threatens the biodiversity of the region, was abandoned following lobbying by the oil giants. the role of the european maritime safety agency in monitoring the exploitation of these resources has been reduced. once again, the interests of the big companies take precedence over the protection of the environment and the interests of the people. the sea is part of the world heritage, it is a common good that must be protected as such. it cannot be left to the law of profit and the interests of a few multinational corporations. this text is therefore a missed opportunity to defend biodiversity and to avoid major disasters, such as the one that occurred in the gulf of mexico in 2010 on the basis of british petroleum's drilling. i therefore voted against this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. we all remember the image of the 2010 oil spill in the gulf of mexico and the environmental disaster it caused. by our vote, we have given the eu a range of measures to safeguard european waters and to ensure maximum safety in oil and gas activities. i naturally voted in favour of this report because the measures proposed guarantee the protection of european waters and coastlines. they also serve as an example at international level and encourage other countries to align themselves with the eu's leading environmental standards. the legislative framework is overseen by the european maritime safety agency, which will make it possible to benefit from its expertise and resources, in consultation with the member states. it is also a great satisfaction that the precautionary principle has been enshrined as a prerequisite for any deployment of offshore activities. industry and activities at sea are a response to the challenge of eu energy independence; so let us be careful that they do not endanger marine, marine and coastal ecosystems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the eu's renewable energy perspectives in the internal energy market. this was in response to the commission communication 'renewable energies: a major player in the european energy market'. according to the report, the share of renewable energy will be at least 30% of the eu's energy mix by 2030. the text also stresses the need to strengthen our infrastructure by modernising the various networks. i am in favour of quantified targets for 2030 for renewable energy but considering that it is too early to set this target now, i have decided to abstain on an amendment calling on the european commission to propose such a quantified target now. for the same reason, i have chosen to reject an amendment proposing a binding target of 45% renewable energy by 2030.
in writing. the debate on the energy transition is in full swing in france and in our neighbours: germany, the united kingdom, poland - to name just a few. while the stated ambition of the european council is to build a european energy policy, the european parliament is leading the way. following up on the european commission's 2050 roadmap, we have today adopted an own-initiative report on 'today's challenges and prospects for renewable energy in the internal energy market'. i co-signed an important amendment, which was the focus of the debate, which was in favour of a binding target for renewable energy (r) by 2030 and to set this target between 40% and 45% of the union's energy mix. i welcome the adoption of the principle of a binding target - so that we can continue our progress towards the energy transition. but i regret that the idea of a 'fork' between 40 and 45% has been rejected. any reference to quantified targets for 2030 is thus removed, resulting in a less ambitious text than the one recommended by the commission. the parliament is here showing its distrust of the need to invest in the r & d.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new strategy to ensure that renewable energy is an integral part of the european energy market by 2020. the current support mechanisms will need to be improved and made more transparent in order to strengthen coherence within the internal market. i voted in favour of a binding target of 30% of europe's energy supply from renewable sources by 2050. this objective seems to me to be quite proportionate and achievable, given the current financial and economic difficulties.
in writing. i supported the reul report on the current challenges and prospects for renewable energy in the european energy market. it proposes to draw up a precise roadmap to achieve an increased share of renewable energy in our energy mix by 2050. pragmatic and realistic, i agree with the objective of convergence of national models. i also believe that it is very important to set up european infrastructures to ensure the proper functioning of the single electricity market. it is a crucial issue for the competitiveness of the european union and the quality of life of future generations.
in writing. to meet the renewable energy challenge and achieve a real european energy market, clear guidelines must be set today to enable all actors to anticipate and participate in these crucial developments. this ambitious text sets out our essential requirements, including the need to strengthen cooperation between the member states in order to achieve greater consistency in our energy choices. companies certainly need visibility for their investments. and europe must continue to be at the forefront of the world's ecological transition. but in the current crisis setting new binding targets risks hurting our businesses, our competitiveness and our jobs. there is still time to consider the next steps, and this must be done in consultation with all the parties concerned.
in writing. renewable energy is the future of the european union's energy supply and equipment. thanks to the policy pursued by the union since 2007 under its '20-20-20' commitment, which provides for 20% of the energy consumed in europe to come from renewable sources by 2020, the dependence of the european territory on conventional energy sources has already been reduced. the dynamism of the renewable energy sector has also helped to create 500,000 jobs in europe. the union should be able to set itself an even more ambitious target for 2030 to increase the share of renewable energy. in addition to the creation of sustainable jobs, this ambition should have positive effects for european industry in terms of prices, the improvement of existing technologies and the development of new technologies. it is therefore vital that support for the development of renewable energies be provided within the framework of an ambitious common industrial policy. the union must also protect its businesses from unfair practices by certain emerging economies that could undermine the technological development of this leading sector, for example by restricting the export of rare earths.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report which calls for greater convergence between the 170 renewable energy support schemes in the different member states and for the development of an appropriate and better integrated european support scheme for the period after 2020. the european union must make a firm commitment to decarbonising its economy, but all renewables are not the panacea. before deciding to commit to a quantified renewable energy target for 2030, let us first make sure that we unlock the funding for the infrastructure, networks and storage technologies that are essential for the integration of renewables into the european energy market. in addition, technological neutrality must continue to be guaranteed and safe nuclear energy retains its strategic importance for european energy policy in the years to come. in order to prepare for the major choices of 2030 and 2050, the european union's energy and environmental policy must be linked to our industrial policy with the objectives of reducing the cost of energy and defending competitiveness and employment.
in writing. every time this parliament raises the energy problem, it is first of all to call for more competition and liberalization in the sector, and in particular the abolition of regulated tariffs. the commission has also taken the view that the community's energy policy should be based on a common energy policy. finally, i would like to say that consumers are benefiting from this, which i deny in view of my own electricity bill and the kafkaesque difficulties in finding the right interlocutor at the slightest difficulty since the commission imposed the separation between the network operator and the energy supplier. the less power brussels has over the organisation of public service, spatial planning and national security activities, the better off everyone is. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against this report on renewable energy. it calls for binding renewable energy targets by 2030, but does not give any quantified targets. i had co-signed an amendment to adopt an ambitious and binding target of 45% renewable energy by 2030. only such an objective would ensure that the eu can get close to 100% renewable energy by 2050. however, this amendment was rejected, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for the adoption of a new binding and more ambitious target for the share of renewable energy (rea) in the european energy mix by 2030. this must be raised above the 30% proposed by the european commission. it is unthinkable today to turn back and give in to the greedy temptation of a return to fossil fuels. the european union must give its full support to the enrs because they are not only necessary to preserve our environment but are also an essential and sustainable lever for growth and jobs in europe. the european parliament therefore calls for the development of an integrated and sustainable european strategy for green energy, which takes account of the differences between national systems, promotes access to capital and encourages investment in this sector of the future.
in writing. renewable energies now represent only a small part of the total energy in the internal energy market. the use of these renewable energies must replace in the near future the use of conventional energy, on which the european union is now dependent. this is what the text underlines, and i voted in favour of it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the european union's energy sector. this will also have positive effects in terms of combating climate change and protecting the environment (reducing air pollution and waste generation, for example).
in writing. energy policy is a key issue for the eu and that is why i voted in favour of the report on renewable energy in the european internal energy market on tuesday. it is important for the european union to continue its efforts towards the use of green energy. we are talking about a long-term strategy which should in no way impose any burden on our companies and that is why we wanted to launch a european support mechanism with a comprehensive strategy and investment promotion in order to increase the competitiveness of companies and the growth of this sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of a text to make the renewable energy market more efficient. this includes harmonising member states' support for the renewable energy sector, which takes a wide variety of forms. this lack of coherence and transparency is detrimental to the development of the renewable energy market, and affects competition and investor confidence. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
in writing. like the commission communication it defends, this report is full of good intentions in favour of renewable energy. it contains some positive points, such as support for geothermal energy, which is still too little used, or reducing consumption. but all this is only to be understood within the framework of the single energy market, where all social and ecological considerations are subject to the law of free and undistorted competition. the text also very explicitly supports the end of regulated energy prices and the elimination of any subsidies which could harm the sacred and holy free competition. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i have decided to vote against the report on the challenges and prospects for renewable energy in the european market because i believe it is very insufficient. the target of 40 to 45% renewable energy by 2030 was not included, which would have been a strong signal. the text also supports free competition in the energy market, at the expense of ecological and social considerations. i personally consider renewable energy to be essential. they are alternatives to fossil fuels that are essential to combat climate change. these are also sectors with a promising future of progress and job creation. goodwill speeches will not be enough to promote the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy. that is why i am calling for ambitious renewable energy targets by 2030 and 2050 and for a european policy that actually supports clean energy, not just free competition.
in writing. no one can now question the legitimacy of renewable energy. it is true that their development helps to offset the negative externalities of fossil fuels. this is not to be a matter of showing complacency and refusing to be critical of them. the question of the costs of developing these sources of energy, their profitability and the time needed to pay off the investment required to implement them must be considered. there is a lot of uncertainty about this today. therefore, setting binding targets and figures in a timetable for the share of renewable energy in the european energy mix seems to me to be useless, even absurd. this would be to forget that the definition of the energy mix remains the responsibility of the member states! what's the point of setting goals if we don't all have the same reference? on the other hand, price deregulation would be absurd if it had the effect of restricting the access of disadvantaged households to energy.
in writing. while i support some of the lines of the resolution, such as the development of a long-term strategy for the promotion of renewable energy in the fight against global warming, or the consideration of the variety of mechanisms for supporting these energies, i cannot subscribe to a policy focused on the role of the market and competition in the development and integration of these energies, on the further liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors. the commission has also proposed to remove state aid for renewable energy where it is likely to distort competition. and worse, to fight energy poverty, all that is required is to compensate for the increase in energy prices. on the eve of the european summit, where the heads of state or government of the member states will give the broad guidelines of eu energy policy, the european parliament reaffirms the objective of completing the european energy market and thus liberalising the sector.
in writing. faced with the environmental and climate challenges around us, eu governments have embarked on the most sustainable energy policy possible. the eu has thus set standards for renewable energy sources to be an integral part of the european energy market. while the principle of support for clean energy is clearly stated, the various implementation mechanisms are extremely opaque, with no less than 170 mechanisms. the aim of this report is therefore to address this inefficiency and to develop a simplified support scheme common to all eu member states for renewable energy. this report sets out a timetable and objectives for 2050, including infrastructure development and guidelines on competition and international trade. however, the report does not set any binding objectives. this flexibility is designed to take account of developments in the industrial energy sector and its competitiveness, and thus avoid penalising eu member states in the global economic market. global renewable energy markets are growing and creating significant benefits for european industry in terms of jobs, prices and support for new technologies.
in writing. as a person who is particularly involved in the debate on the role of women in society, particularly through my work as president of the women at the centre club, i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. it takes stock of the situation of women in the balkan countries which are candidates for eu membership. it stresses in particular that 'the western balkan candidate countries have adopted a large part of the legislation required in the context of the eu accession process, but that this legislation is in many cases not actually implemented'. i encourage these countries to take all possible measures to protect women's rights and promote gender equality.
in writing. the western balkan candidate countries have incorporated a large part of the eu gender equality acquis, but in many cases not all of it has been effectively implemented. i voted in favour of this report which calls on these states to introduce a quota policy to promote the representation of women in political parties and national assemblies. the report also focuses on protecting the rights of vulnerable populations, such as ethnic minority women, health and sexual rights.... at present, 30% of the victims of crossborder trafficking in human beings are nationals of the balkan countries. with this vote, we have sent a strong message of support to these populations.
in writing. the balkan countries which wish to move closer to the european union must continue their efforts towards real equality between men and women. this equality has many faces: the fight against violence against women, equal representation, equal opportunities... i welcome the inclusion in this text of a section on the education of women and girls, and the emphasis on the role that women entrepreneurs can play in the economies of these countries. i am very much interested in this subject myself, and particularly in the opening up of all sectors, even the most traditionally male, to women. i therefore support the proposals in this report to that effect.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i share the view that all women, including those from the balkan candidate countries, should be able to exercise their sexual and reproductive rights, including access to quality and affordable contraception, which is far from the case at present. i am also in favour of organising awareness campaigns in these countries to combat stereotypes, discrimination and domestic violence, particularly in rural areas where there are often discriminatory traditional customs. there, as in our country, women are subject to multiple discrimination, particularly in terms of employment and political representation. we therefore call for new initiatives to improve the situation of women in the balkans. finally, the issue of the victims of cross-border trafficking in human beings, 30% of whom are from this region, requires determined action by the european authorities to deter, prosecute and punish traffickers and to tackle the root causes of trafficking.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on women's rights in the balkan countries which are candidates for accession to the european union. several states of the former yugoslavia, including the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and bosnia and herzegovina, wish to join the union. however, a significant gap persists between the convergence criteria imposed by the union and those states which are clearly lagging behind in development. furthermore, fundamental constitutional reforms are needed to establish an effective and functioning democratic system. parliament called in particular for the right of women to stand for political office and for better access to administrative posts.
in writing. for several years now, the balkan candidate countries have been striving to meet the eu's accession criteria as fully as possible, to meet european requirements, and they are generally doing well. however, the situation of women in these countries is problematic. they are underrepresented in economic and political decision-making bodies; they are highly unemployed and are the main victims of cross-border trafficking in human beings in the european union. i voted in favour of this report because i support and share the objective of strengthening the presence of women in the political and economic life of the balkan countries. it is essential to achieve equal pay for men and women and to promote better access to the labour market. the implementation of women's rights is a priority as is the principle of gender equality, in particular through awareness-raising campaigns. i believe that women have a key role to play in stabilising and resolving conflicts which would be beneficial for the reconciliation of the whole region.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which encourages independence and pluralism in the media landscape of the various member states. the drift observed in hungary reminds us of the need to remain vigilant about the access of european citizens to a free press. the report calls on member states to "ensure that binding procedures and mechanisms are in place for the selection and appointment of media directors, boards of directors, media councils and media watchdogs that are transparent, based on merit and undisputed experience, and guarantee professionalism, integrity and independence".
in writing. freedom of the media is the key to the proper functioning of a democracy, and this is why the members of the european union must attach particular importance to it. with the charter of fundamental rights now binding, it is more necessary than ever to guarantee the proper functioning of the media market, as their independence is a sign of a strong freedom of opinion and expression. i particularly support the emphasis in this text on the importance of taking account of developments linked to technological change and on the support of the traditional media in this transition.
in writing. i thought it was essential to support this text which reaffirms the principle of media freedom at eu level. member states have a duty to promote and protect the independence and pluralism of their national media, since media freedom plays a fundamental role in democratic societies. no democracy can be real without genuine free and open access to information for citizens.
in writing. freedom of the press, but also the right to objective, pluralistic and quality information should be the rule. living in a country where there is an unspoken consensus between the political and media classes to impose political correctness, and where the press is willing to censor itself, i am painfully aware of this. but is it really reasonable to entrust the achievement of these objectives to the commission, which you so often support? it is an institution specialized in propaganda, which, like you, denigrates or dismisses anti-european views in brussels, which interferes in the internal political debates of states, or seeks to control and censor internet content... you yourself constantly propose to "educate" citizens from primary school to a single thought: "education" to the media, cultural and sexual diversity, the benefits of liberalism, etc... you're trying to replace parenting with institutional mind-blowing, like in the totalitarian universes of george orwell or aldous huxley... you're not credible as defenders of liberty. a funny example? you're proposing to decriminalize defamation, but ten minutes ago, you voted to waive the immunity of a colleague who's being sued for... defamation!
in writing. i voted strongly in favour of this resolution which aims to ensure better respect for media freedom and pluralism as proclaimed in the eu charter of fundamental rights. too many examples remind us that media freedom is constantly in danger, even within the european union itself: financial interests are undermining pluralism, journalists are subject to all kinds of pressure, unless it is a european government that purely takes control of the media with impunity as we have seen recently. these situations are unacceptable and no member state is spared. this is why this resolution proposes to set up an annual monitoring of media freedom and pluralism in each member state, calls for transparency and independence of national authorities, and establishes as a top priority the protection of journalists against all forms of pressure and job insecurity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to encourage media pluralism in the european union. any restriction on media freedom and the independence of journalism is a restriction on freedom of opinion. this permanent respect for freedom is also a qualifying criterion for the countries applying for membership of the european union. the european union must also protect journalists from the pressures, intimidation and harassment to which they are still too often subject in some of the union's countries. finally, media freedom should not be limited to traditional media but should also cover social media and other forms of media, especially on the internet. this should also include freedom of access to the media, ensuring the provision of and effective access to the internet for all european citizens.
in writing. i have given my full support to this own-initiative report because i believe that freedom of the press is essential if our democracies are to survive in europe. however, several cases in europe, such as hungary and italy, are of concern. the crisis affecting the journalistic profession, in particular investigative journalism and the european correspondent, is not trivial and must be monitored with the utmost seriousness to prevent any threat to such a vital sector for our citizens to exercise their rights. while the spread of new technologies, combined with the emergence of new business models, also implies a change in the media environment, it must remain accessible to the greatest number of people and report information in the most objective way. finally, in order to exist, freedom of expression also requires respect for ethical, deontological and professional standards, in a regulatory space conducive to the emergence of a pluralistic and open media sector. that is why i support the move to introduce legally binding mechanisms and criteria for the appointment of public media officials and to combat excessive concentration in the media sector.
in writing. freedom of the press has long been recognised as a fundamental right within the european union. article 11 (2) of the charter of fundamental rights states that 'the freedom of the media and their pluralism shall be respected'. however, far too many journalists still struggle to express themselves freely in europe. it is unacceptable that journalists should still be subject to pressure from media owners, political or economic groups. in order to remedy this problem, i therefore voted in favour of this text, which proposes the establishment of a european control of all legislative changes in the member states concerning the media.
in writing. i voted for the eu charter setting standards for media freedom. the freedom and pluralism of the media in europe must be guaranteed by means of control at union level of the rules and practices of the member states. the purpose of this supervision is, inter alia, to protect journalists from threats and to guarantee their independence.
in writing. i abstained on the final vote on the weber report on media freedom across the european union. i do not think there is any need to revise the audiovisual media services directive. i defend freedom of the press, a fundamental principle underlying democracy. however, in france, freedom of the press is fully respected. the report also contains too many calls for new european regulations and new controls by the european institutions or agencies which run counter to the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i could not support the whole of this report as it stands.
in writing. it is essential that the member states and the european union respect, protect and guarantee the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information and media pluralism, enshrined in article 11 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. such rights are essential to the proper functioning of democracy in europe, and it is up to the european institutions to ensure that these rights are respected and implemented. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling for the establishment of mechanisms to protect the media from political pressure, to remedy the difficulties that the media and journalists too often face.
in writing. i supported this report in my vote in plenary because i consider that freedom of expression remains a fundamental value of democracy and the rule of law. since its creation, the european union has ensured that media freedom is respected, which is nowadays not limited to traditional media but also extends to social media and other forms of media, such as internet media. in these times of economic and financial crisis, some budget cuts are taking place and it is important that these measures do not impede pluralism and media freedom. at the same time, the independence of journalists must be protected. as such, states must protect them from pressure or intimidation and they must also pay attention to corporate-owned media groups. finally, it is urgent that some member states take measures to decriminalise defamation and set up media self-regulatory bodies to address these problems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on media freedom across the eu. i agree with the stated objectives: ensuring editorial independence, pluralism and protecting the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information, which is indeed essential for democracy and the rule of law. it is also urgent to avoid media concentration in the hands of large monopolies, as in france, where the main press groups are owned by industrialists whose activities are concentrated in other areas, including the arms trade. a little transparency on media ownership wouldn't hurt. similarly, regular monitoring of the amendment of the legislation of the relevant member states could perhaps help to prevent the development of freedom-threatening laws for the press as in hungary. i have no illusions about the reality of eu practices, but i systematically support anything that can help to introduce respect for the charter of fundamental rights into the eu legal reality and establish sanctions in this area that are more in line with so-called european values than austerity policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for this motion for a resolution because i believe that the subject of pensions is far too important not to be discussed at the right level, that is, at european level. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. deep reforms and convergence of european pension systems must be implemented to ensure a decent pension for everyone. of course, it is extremely sensitive to reform systems that were the subject of long and difficult negotiations several decades ago. but perhaps it is precisely because this consensus is old that it needs to be debated again. the economic context has changed, the world has changed, and we are endangering our social security models if we do not have the courage, today, to face reality. our birth rates are falling, our young people are going to school longer and longer, life expectancy is getting longer and longer. these reforms have already waited far too long. we must therefore urgently review the financing of pensions, show courage and show concerted action so that the solutions found are supported by the greatest number of people.
in writing. the vote of this european parliament resolution followed the publication in february 2012 of a european commission white paper on a strategy for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions. i voted in favour of this text, which draws the consequences both of the ageing of europe's populations and of the pressures exerted by the financial crisis on national pension systems.
in writing. how will the future of our pensions be secured? most member states are now engaged in reflection on the subject. the european commission is also considering this and is not shy about making recommendations to the member states. the report by mrs oomen-ruijten is contradictory from the outset: pensions remain a national competence, but the union decides on the strategy to be adopted and makes recommendations to the states. in the empl committee we had achieved good things, including a stronger focus on the first pillar of pension systems, namely the universal public pension system, which must retain its central role in ensuring decent incomes for pensioners. i have, however, abstained on many paragraphs and on the final vote because i remain sceptical of the approach taken by the commission and endorsed by parliament. the multi-pillar system cannot be achieved without recalling the priorities and specific features of our welfare state. it is obvious that life expectancy should be taken into account in the reform of pensions, but we must also take account of the burdens involved. i am very sorry that there is nothing in the report on this subject.
in writing. with this vote we ask the member states to introduce or maintain diversified pension systems. one third of the eu population is over 55 years old, so the very sustainability of pension systems is at stake as public finances are constrained. we must maintain publicly funded pensions to ensure decent living conditions, as these remain the main source of income for pensioners, particularly in the countries most affected by the economic crisis. if this is the responsibility of the member states, eu coordination is more than necessary. in this respect it is regrettable that the commission's white paper does not address the importance of this pillar in the fight against poverty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the creation of a macro-regional strategy for the alpine regions. the community's action in this field is based on the principle of subsidiarity. since these problems are not confined to a single 'national side' of the mountain range, it seems appropriate to deepen existing crossborder cooperation to find solutions. it is not a question of creating a new level between the state and the region, or of reducing the prerogatives of the former. based on a shared will of the actors on the ground, the aim of such a strategy is really to bring all the stakeholders together to build concrete projects that improve the alpine economy and the daily lives of the inhabitants of this area.
in writing. to meet the pension challenge, we must initiate and pursue the necessary reforms that will enable us to maintain the sustainability of our social models. this requires innovation and the use of new tools. although i support the proposals in this text in general, and in particular those aimed at promoting active ageing or gender equality, i cannot vote for the abolition of any legal retirement age. i agree with the principle that we should work longer and encourage those who wish to do so. however, i believe that the most vulnerable and those who have to work hard must also be protected: they could be punished by legislation which would abolish the legal retirement age. it is therefore necessary to give further thought to this idea, to ensure that they will be adequately protected.
in writing. pension systems in all european countries are facing economic and demographic difficulties. in france in particular, the fall in the employment rate has led to a reduction in social contributions and thus a deficit in the pension fund. it is now essential to take the necessary measures to reduce this deficit. i therefore voted in favour of this text initiating a european strategy to establish a sustainable and sustainable pension funding system. nevertheless, i believe it is necessary that this european strategy respects the principle of subsidiarity and that decisions on the financing of pensions fall within the competence of the state.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on pensions, which is a real trap. it automatically links increasing life expectancy with the legal retirement age. it's not fair to long and arduous careers. it is also not financially viable in the long term: we will not finance social protection with such rust on the backs of the employees. the text also calls for the development of pension systems based on capitalisation. we are in favour of pension systems based on a system of distribution and we do not want public money to be used to make life insurance more attractive, because that would seriously undermine the solidarity of our social protection.
in writing. the economic crisis has reminded us of the vulnerability of public and private pension systems in europe. in voting for this resolution i wanted to say that even though pensions are a matter for the member states, a minimum of european coordination is necessary. we therefore recommend that the member states ensure a sustainable and secure approach to pensions, combining pensions financed by the state and those provided for by collective agreements. i voted against the emphasis on 'retirement savings', which i consider to be an inadequate solution because it is more costly and less transparent.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ria oomen-ruijten report in response to the european commission's white paper on pensions, as it is important that in the context of the economic crisis and ageing of the population, member states introduce and maintain diversified pension schemes. this is done through a 'multi-pillar' approach, combining public pension schemes (pillar one), supplementary pension schemes resulting from collective agreements, company agreements or national law (pillar two) and private savings (pillar three). this approach should allow for better consideration of national specificities and decent living conditions. finally, the resolution also proposes to balance working time with retirement time, develop a code of good practice for occupational pension schemes and ensure better protection of occupational pension rights in the event of the insolvency of the employer.
in writing. the european parliament has spoken on pension systems in europe, which nevertheless remain a competence of the member states. while employment, the return to growth and the competitiveness of enterprises are major immediate concerns, the reform of our pension systems is another key issue which has already been undertaken in many countries since the end of the 1980s but which is slow to be implemented in france. thanks to the determination of president sarkozy, we have laid the foundations for this necessary reform and the efforts must be continued. unfortunately, we are witnessing the current government's hesitation to put the debate off until next autumn.
in writing. a thorough reform of the private and public pension systems is needed today to be able to meet the challenges of tomorrow. with nearly a third of the population over 50, action is needed now. that is why i have voted in favour of this text, which proposes a harmonised overhaul of pension systems to ensure that everyone has a decent pension. diversification is clearly the condition for an effective pension system. while the distribution of pensions must remain the main source of income, despite the current economic difficulties, it must not be the only system available to citizens. they must also be able to benefit from other schemes such as supplementary pensions or retirement savings.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on adequate, secure and sustainable pensions for our fellow europeans. while pensioners represent a significant proportion of the population in the european union, the crisis has magnified the problem of ageing in europe and the need to ensure sustainable pension systems. although this is a matter for national competence, we recommend that governments coordinate their policies. the state must, however, remain the main guarantor of its pension system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on adequate, safe and sustainable pensions. this challenge will become more pressing as the population ages. with one third of the eu population over the age of 55, the sustainability of pension systems is under threat. in addition to promoting an increase in the employment rate by allowing those who wish to work longer, member states should develop a 'multi-pillar' approach. pensions could be financed by the state but also by pension savings and the establishment of collective agreements.
in writing. the report calls for the development of collective funded pension schemes and private individual savings. he has announced new attacks on the public solidarity regimes. this is all the more intolerable since pensions are the responsibility of the member states and not of the european union. the attention paid to women and a few generous phrases cannot mask this provocation, at a time when a new battle is being fought to defend the right to retire in france. i vote against it.
in writing. this report advocates a new approach to pension funding through a combination of different funding systems. this combination would result in the weakening of the pension distribution system in favour of the capitalisation system and individual private saving. the system of shared pensions, which is rooted in our french tradition, is based on the principle of solidarity between generations. however, to remove this solidarity and to destroy the public solidarity schemes would have considerable negative impacts on the situation of workers. the report is therefore a decoy and does nothing to ensure 'adequate, secure and sustainable' pensions for european citizens. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the overall increase in life expectancy, record unemployment rates and the poor financial health of the member states are pushing us to reform our pension systems in depth across europe. it doesn't matter which system you choose, capitalization or distribution. we're going straight into the wall. it is not just a question of simply raising the retirement age. it is also about ensuring that everyone, regardless of age, can find a job. this is made possible by increased access to training and learning. this is particularly so as a person who has been in the labour market for a longer period is more likely to change careers. similarly, it is essential to encourage individuals to subscribe to supplementary retirement savings products. in view of the state of public finances in the member states, it is essential that pensioners are not entirely dependent on them and receive supplementary income.
in writing. the ageing of the population is the major challenge facing pension and retirement systems in the union. one third of the european population is already over 55 years old and our continent continues to age. the ageing population is compounded by the impoverishment of the elderly due to the crisis and the drastic cuts in social assistance from national budgets. it is therefore necessary to adapt our pension systems to one of these two constraints. the european union, which is not meant to intervene directly in the choices of states, can help coordinate reforms and propose solutions. i therefore voted in favour of this report which advocates a 'multi-pillar' approach combining state-funded pensions, supplementary pensions provided for by collective agreements between companies and finally personal savings by employees. one of the options envisaged is to increase the employment rate, by limiting early retirement schemes and allowing older people, if they wish, to work beyond the legal age.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis across europe has severely affected the pension income of millions of europeans. until now, the pension issue has been resolved only at national level, but the economies are interconnected and it is no longer possible for each country to guarantee the adequacy, security and sustainability of its social protection systems on its own. i therefore supported the european parliament's resolution which recommends that the eu and the member states assess the current and future sustainability and adequacy of pension systems and identify best practices and policy strategies that can ensure the safest and most cost-effective pension provision possible. the resolution draws the attention of the european commission to the importance of first-tier pension schemes. in latvia, as in other poorer eu member states, it is the first level of pension that accounts for the largest number of pensions in the country. this is why member states need to implement first-rate pension reforms to ensure that people, especially those belonging to the most vulnerable groups, have a decent standard of living and economic independence in old age. when we think about a better future for pensioners, we should also think about the people who are working today. one of the obstacles that often prevents latvians working abroad from returning to latvia is the fact that all pension contributions made will remain in the country concerned. it is therefore important for latvia that workers have the possibility to change their place of work within the european union, while maintaining the right to receive and maintain an occupational pension.
in writing. i have chosen to vote against the report on 'adequate, safe and sustainable' pensions. this false headline echoes the usual propaganda and the ideology currently prevailing in the eu: we are living longer, so we must work more. it doesn't matter that a large number of seniors are unemployed. the contribution period must be adapted to life expectancy, at a time when 26 million europeans simply want to work and when youth unemployment is rising massively, particularly in the southern countries. it's just unbearable. worse still, the text supports the development of capitalised pensions and the use of financial products. it's the killing of systems by distribution. such ineffective and unfair proposals would only fuel speculation, allowing only the wealthiest to secure their pensions. with productivity having increased sevenfold in the last century, there is an urgent need to rebalance productivity gains between labour and capital. the recent announcements by françois hollande on pensions are the sad french embodiment of these policies. it's hard to tell where the announced change of course is.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which calls for accelerated reforms of pension systems, adapting the retirement age to the increase in life expectancy. this is a clear message to the french socialists, who have always opposed any reform of our pension system out of pure demagogy and electoral opportunism (1993, 2003, 2007, 2010). this report is an opportunity to recall that more than a dozen eu member states have already set the retirement age at 65, which reflects the reality of european demography and the need for adequate funding of old age insurance. while the french socialists opposed the postponement of the retirement age to 62 in 2010, the german socialists set it at 65 in the 2000s and 67 in 2017. our government must therefore face up to the obvious, even at the risk of contradicting itself: since it is unthinkable to reduce pensions, which are already very low, or to increase contributions, because of the exorbitant rate of compulsory levies, only a postponement of the retirement age will enable us to balance our pension system.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, madam president-in-office, i do not know whether france can serve as a bridge between germany and italy, but there is one extremely important point that emerges from this exchange, and i would like to stress it. the choice made by the heads of government to entrust supervision to the european central bank is an important decision. the commission, it has been said, and i should like to stress this, has done a remarkable job in a very short time, and the fundamental choice that has been made is a choice that was not obvious. it was to say that all banking supervision - a function which in a democracy must be placed under democratic control - was entrusted to an institution which has a very high credibility, which has a lot of authority in monetary and financial matters, but which, until now, was totally independent. this is the square of the circle we were working on. for my part, i want to say that i think a good job has been done. the rapporteurs have been particularly diligent and we have tried to do our best. i have a small doubt in my mind and conscience. it's a choice that's been made. other choices could have been made, perhaps more in keeping with the spirit of the internal market, and we are left with this debate. so what conditions must be clarified before we can really endorse this text? first of all, there must be a way of organizing things within the ecb so that monetary activities are separated from financial activities. i think it's possible. i think we should not attach too much importance to what is said in a meeting. i do not think the ecb is going to back down. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. it is a little regrettable that, in an area where there is an internal market, voting procedures have been introduced which create clusters between some states and others, and i do not wish to go any further in banking compromises which allow the euro-zone countries and non-euro-zone countries to be associated, which is quite desirable, but which is done in unclear ways. all things considered, this is a great step forward, and i thank all those who have contributed to it, especially in relation to what we wanted to do in supervision in 2010; but there are still doubts about this way of doing europe, which is not always very good at the moment, and which consists in wanting everything and its opposite and, in the end, weakens the best things we achieve together.
mr president, madam minister, madam president, commissioner, the financial crisis has brought to light the shortcomings of the european system that existed before the crisis, namely the one based, here as elsewhere, on principles of self-regulation of activities by market players subject to national supervision, broken up into a fragmented and fragmented regulatory framework. however, the european banking sector has long been one of the most integrated services markets in the european union, with many cross-border activities taking place within the many banking institutions. due to the internationalisation of these activities and a weak regulatory framework, the crisis has also highlighted, at regular intervals, the high risk of contagion between banking institutions and their significant size and essential interconnectedness. a key step was also taken in december 2012, when the issue of banking union emerged as an essential part of the functioning of economic and monetary union itself. the european parliament's negotiating team has been determined to follow this path, and i thank them for it, but everyone should know that we are missing two pieces of the puzzle here in order to really disconnect the question of the financing of the banking system from the debts of the member states. firstly, the possibility of providing the union with a deposit guarantee scheme and, secondly, the question of the restructuring of financial institutions. since the european council in december 2012, many events have confirmed these necessary steps. do i need to mention the cyprus crisis or the need for member states to use the esm to be supported, including in the recapitalisation of institutions in difficulty? we understand that, but some member states in the council do not see it that way. i think that the initiative, which was initiated by the president of the french republic in particular, must be supported so that the european union finally has the banking union system we need to make economic and monetary union work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone who has been interested in this issue can confirm that only 5% of books published in europe are accessible to the visually impaired in formats such as braille, audio or large print. and let us not forget the situation in the most deprived countries, where blind people, people with print disabilities, and people with dyslexia suffer from a real shortage of books every day. action is needed in this area to put an end to the discrimination suffered by the persons concerned. in favour of improving access to works for the visually impaired, france, through its superior council for literary and artistic property, has just launched, in march, a mission to better organize the cross-border circulation of works in an adapted format. but to ensure that effective standards were set in this area, a strong european, if not global, impulse was needed. only the adoption of an international treaty requiring states to establish an exception and facilitating the sharing, at global level, of the resources needed for the production of published works in formats accessible to people with visual impairments will allow the situation to change. this treaty is essential because only one third of countries in the world have an exception to copyright that allows books to be made and distributed in an accessible format. the copyright committee of the world intellectual property organization has been considering this since 2009. as you have said, its general assembly decided to hold a diplomatic conference in marrakesh in june next year with a view to concluding a treaty. the european union will therefore have to play an active part in this process in order to finally find effective solutions and to enable visually impaired people to have better access to works all over the world, in full respect of the principles of copyright. this is an important test which must not be missed to prove that the fight against discrimination is not limited to speech but is also translated into action, and the european union must show its commitment to achieving this objective.
mr president, commissioner, i think that we are in fact running the risk of making the distribution of cultural works unnecessarily complicated by limiting the distribution of books intended only for the visually impaired and by adding unnecessary procedures and obligations. i believe that the european commission should be flexible and take the initiative to simplify the distribution of books to show what the european union can do in terms of cultural dissemination and support for people with certain disabilities. i believe that this would be a measure for the protection and dissemination of culture which is in keeping with the aims and objectives of the european union.
mr president, like the tampere programme in 1999 and the hague programme in 2004, the stockholm programme is an ambitious programme. but the mid-term evaluation has a bitter aftertaste because, almost four years after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, we as parliamentarians still feel that we are working as if we were in another era, the era of the maastricht treaty, a time when the european parliament was merely an advisory body. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i therefore call on the council to take account of this new situation. i use the word 'regrets' also because it is clear that whole parts of the internal security strategy or the management of external borders, which are major policies for our citizens, are in fact transferred to european agencies and other networks, over which democratic control is more limited. finally, it is regrettable that the principle of solidarity between individuals and between states, which is enshrined in article 80 of the treaty, remains a dead letter, and the difficulties we have encountered in achieving a common european asylum system show that internal political issues continue to dominate to the detriment of the solidarity we are calling for. in short, this is an insufficient balance sheet and results, and the time is very short to achieve some concrete and important objectives, such as the slightest known progress on the anti-discrimination directive, which is a striking example. so, commissioner, i would like to hear from you about the reinforcements that need to be made to improve the credibility of these european institutions.
mr president, this debate gives us an opportunity to take stock of the stockholm programme. i was one of the european citizens who voted for maastricht, who believed in these advances for citizenship and social justice. i have seen the progress made by the european union in these areas in the 1990s translated into action in the tampere programme. but since the early 2000s, we have seen a complete change of foot. the security guard trumped the civil rights. with the lisbon treaty, some may have believed that things would change, especially with the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights. and the commission's plan could give hope of progress. what about today? most initiatives are blocked by the council. the european asylum law is indeed a good example and we could also talk about the situation of refugees, immigrants at our borders and on our territory, or the roma and many other problems. the basic rights, justice, are constantly being degraded in the european union, especially for the most vulnerable. so please, change your bracket. there is urgency if you want european citizens to believe again in the european dream.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank the members very much for their very pertinent questions. the commission welcomes parliament’s draft resolution on future legislative proposals on emu. against the backdrop of the current economic outlook, the case for structural reforms and for rebuilding the economic and monetary union is evident. we have already substantially reinforced our economic governance – with the essential support of parliament – but more work is nevertheless required, as the chair of the committee, ms bowles, has just stressed. in the very short term we need to complete the repair of the financial sector in europe. the construction of a banking union will reinforce confidence and help restore the flow of credit to households and enterprises, especially smes, which are crucial for job creation. further important elements for improved economic integration were set out in the two communications that we published in march: one on the ex ante coordination of major economic policy reforms and the other on a convergence and competitiveness instrument. let me stress the consultative nature of these communications. they set out ideas and suggestions and pose questions. on the basis of the input we will receive from parliament, the member states, stakeholders and national parliaments, the commission will consider its proposals on the way forward. parliament will be fully involved in the shaping of any prospective initiatives, in line with the treaties. further on the role of parliament: the commission’s objective is to extend the economic dialogue to cover these initiatives. parliament could invite the commission, the president of the council or the president of the eurogroup to discuss a commission opinion or the conclusions of discussions in the council. i would also find it very useful if parliament could also invite member states to participate in an exchange of views on major economic policy reforms and explain their policies and defend their positions. this would enable public scrutiny and provide peer pressure. on your question regarding the relationship of the communications to the fiscal compact, or rather the treaty on stability, coordination and governance, the concept of ex ante coordination of plans for major economic policy reforms was introduced by article 11 of this treaty. the treaty foresees the incorporation of its substance into the legal framework of the european union within five years, at most, of the date of its entry into force. the consultative communication presents options for the integration of such coordination into the community framework. with regard to your question on the nature of the contractual arrangement under the convergence and competitiveness instrument: the instrument would be based in the treaties but the contractual arrangement would be of a political nature. as the current treaties do not allow for the possibility of legally binding contracts, conditionality would imply that no financial support would be paid or be recovered in case of non-compliance. finally, on your question as to which reforms should be a priority under the convergence and competitiveness instrument: the key aim of this instrument is to contribute to the effective and smooth functioning of the economic and monetary union. it would do so by increasing the commitment of member states to implement specific reforms and by providing financial support to help member states to do so. these reforms would benefit not only the member state itself but the euro area as a whole. as the crisis has underlined, a lack of reform can have significant effects across the euro area. thank you for your attention and i look forward to hearing your views on the future legislative proposals of the emu.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the questions which parliament is asking today are essential questions. you just gave some answers. these answers allow us to judge the seriousness of the commitments and the reality of the political will to achieve greater efficiency in the economic action of the european union. recent history shows that while the european union has tried to be reactive, the shortcomings of the organization, particularly of the euro zone, have been detrimental. the crises have accumulated and have been dealt with in a certain improvisation, in the absence of appropriate instruments or means. the consequence of this situation has been that attempts have been made to compensate for the absence of community instruments by a systematic return to intergovernmentalism. this has created a dual legal system which must not continue. it is urgent to return to community instruments and to have the instruments needed to react effectively and, even better, to prevent dangerous situations. nevertheless, much work has been done. i would like to pay tribute to your determination, mr vice-president, which was not easy to implement because of the resistance or reluctance of the member states. the two commission communications set out the next steps in the project of achieving a genuine economic and monetary union. these communications, i would remind you, follow up on the commitments made by the commission in november 2012 in its draft and respond to the call of the european council and parliament. the future of economic and monetary union will be discussed again at the next summits, and we dare hope that concrete measures will be proposed and defined. the objectives are commendable: on the one hand, to strengthen the coordination of economic policies and economic integration in the euro area, by reconciling strict discipline at national level and solidarity at european level, and on the other hand, to enable europe to progress along the path of competitiveness, growth and job creation. the question now is how these elements and intentions will translate into reality. that's why we asked the question. i shall not comment on all the points, of course. the resolution is precise and contains a number of useful contributions from parliament. i would like to stress a few points which i think are important. firstly, the prior coordination of major economic policy reform projects, which is essential. the implementation of national measures in areas which naturally fall within the european dimension is harmful and should be avoided. we have an example today with the proliferation of national banking laws, which anticipate what will be proposed by the commission in july or september as part of the reform of the banking sector. the fact that some member states adopt specific national provisions a few months in advance makes subsequent negotiation and harmonization of regulations more difficult. similarly, it is also necessary to ensure that national policies have an impact on other countries, which is something that must be taken into account. as regards the convergence and competitiveness instrument for the euro area, which provides for contractual arrangements, it certainly deserves to be specified and not rejected in principle, since the objective is to restore macroeconomic balances. in this respect, we want the principle of conditionality to be applied to the disbursement of funds. without the implementation of the planned reforms, there can be no european contribution. the specific competences at national and european level must be respected, democratic control must be ensured without overlap, national parliaments must be involved at national level in the ordinary legislative procedure, and it is for the european parliament to ensure democratic control at european level. in this respect, the meetings you suggest and which are already being held are certainly a first step towards harmonizing positions. finally, i would like to say that it is important to strengthen the social dimension of economic and monetary union and to create, for example, a social and employment scoreboard to inform the discussions on the european semester.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, like jean-paul gauzès, i really want to highlight your work and your determination within the college and towards the member states. our answer is intended to be nuanced in relation to your proposal. there are two points which are extremely positive. the first is to take account of the impact of the decisions of states on others. i think that this ex ante coordination is particularly important. until now, we have managed a single currency with separate policies which were sometimes contradictory and even harmful to neighbours. the second positive point is the possibility of making more, with budgetary instruments to help the states to move forward on the path of competitiveness. on the other hand, there are two things which concern me and which we have mentioned in the text, but which i would like to stress. the first is that you will have a hard time, because by definition not everyone likes the community method, and the european semester is organised rather state by state. so we're going to have to be really careful about how that works in practice. in general, if i may say so, one gets the feeling, when one looks at all that has been done in recent years, that there have been many announcements, but that sometimes the results are not forthcoming for the citizens. i remember the europlus pact, we had the six-pack, the fiscal compact. people are not very well aware of what positive law is and what the european council's announcements are. so let's be careful with the gas factories. the second thing is that there can be no contract in the community legal order. i think that is an extremely important point. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the council that has always been the party to the treaty of rome. what is very important is that there is a shared community legal order. we are counting on you to enforce this principle.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is at a crossroads: either it will break out of the trap of austerity and make a leap towards democracy, or the people will end up hating it. we have to act fast. the president of the council has handed over his road map, the commission has drawn up its blue print, and françois hollande has just called for the implementation of a genuine economic government. the european parliament must be involved in this process. unfortunately, he was not consulted on cyprus and cannot do anything about the troika. my dear colleagues, is not a government without a parliament the mark of a dictatorship? parliament has recalled this in the thyssen report. it must be present at all stages of the european semester, from the ags debate to the monitoring of the country-specific recommendations. it must be at the heart of the control of the future budget of the euro area. the commission has therefore decided to reject the idea of bilateral agreements between the commission and the member states. it is like generalizing the method of a troika which has been wrong all along. the troika is not an experiment to be imitated, it is an aberration to be eliminated. finally, in the face of the strengthening of the euro area government, parliament must have its own 'euro area' structure to deal with states which never fail to put their own particular interests ahead of the general interest of the european citizen. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. we must build a europe of citizens, not a europe of contracts!
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, on 14 december you were given the task of preparing a roadmap for the completion of economic and monetary union, in partnership with president van rompuy. this road map had four dimensions. the college has tabled two proposals for which you are responsible and refuses to table the text we are waiting for on the social front. but when i look at the unemployment situation in the european union, i see that it is a sign of the failure of your policy. and the silence of the college on the social dimension of economic and monetary union is a sign of the failure of mr barroso's presidency of this commission. you will not get out of the imbalance we are in, which is not just a macroeconomic imbalance. stop keeping a close eye on government deficits and debt. the question of social imbalances is equally important. sometimes the best and the worst comes from the united states. look at how the united states rebuilt its economy. it's because of the automatic stabilizers. we ask you to do the same in the social field, at european level, because this crisis has social origins, it has social consequences, and you will not get out of this crisis without introducing this social dimension, without setting up an automatic stabilizer by defining a minimum of unemployment benefits. it is a fair measure, it is an effective measure, and it is one which will enable you to correct precisely those macroeconomic imbalances which you cannot compensate for by your policies. after world war ii, we were also in situations of crisis almost as severe as those we are experiencing today. and it's thanks to the welfare state that we've got it back on track. today you have the chance, the possibility, if president barroso will listen to us, to set up the equivalent and the embryo of this; it's this automatic stabilizer. we ask you to initiate, not you, because we do not trust you to do so, but the european commission, under the responsibility of commissioner andor, the setting up of this automatic stabiliser. work on it! there was an embryo in the blueprint. that's a good idea, but you immediately abandoned it. we need to get her back on track. the commission must prepare the work of the next mandate with a green paper on the automatic stabiliser.
in writing. in a context marked by the offshore leaks and the revelations of tax fraud by jérôme cahuzac, then minister of the budget in france, it is essential to provide a strong and coherent response to combat all reprehensible tax practices. i think it is important to find a common definition of tax havens and to encourage member states to respect their commitments in the fight against tax evasion. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report which is a clear response to the commission's communication on 'concrete ways of strengthening the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, including with regard to third countries'.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to put in place practical measures to combat tax fraud, including the adoption of a european definition of tax havens and the establishment of a blacklist of jurisdictions that refuse to cooperate. by joining forces, we can halve the tax gap, which is expected to reach €1 trillion by 2020. i have in particular approved the suspension of european funding for companies that violate the union's tax rules. it is up to the member states to strengthen their rules on tax evasion, since tax administration is not a european competence. we have sent a strong signal to the member states, inviting them to cooperate in harmonising their tax bases, implementing measures to prevent companies from shifting profits to tax havens to avoid paying taxes, and improving the cross-checking of customs and tax data to avoid vat fraud.
in writing. i fully support this own-initiative report, which proposes a number of well-reasoned but potentially effective measures to combat tax evasion. a european definition of tax havens and the establishment of a 'black list' of non-cooperative jurisdictions seem to me to be the first steps towards a better understanding of this phenomenon. the report then sets a number of targets for states, such as halving the tax gap by 2020, allocating significant staff and resources to their tax administration, and possibly suspending the licence of a fraudulent bank by the competent authorities. the report also encourages the commission to play a proactive role on the international scene in order to promote good practice in the fight against tax fraud.
in writing. the money that is diverted from taxes is so much more resources that european citizens have to provide, so much money that is not invested in health and solidarity, so many additional difficulties for our companies in the face of global competition. it's a threat to our social model and our public services. it is also a shortfall which contributes to increasing the deficits and debts of the states, at a time when we are trying to reduce them. this situation is unacceptable, and that is why i will remain mobilized. this requires a strong european commitment: we must coordinate our actions even more if we are to have an impact on the international scene, and we must encourage our partners to follow our example.
in writing. it is high time that the eu and its member states act to put an end to tax fraud and evasion. in the eu alone, the shortfall represents an estimated €1 trillion in lost tax revenue per year, according to the european commission. this is why europe must impose automatic exchange of information on the member states. a european facta would be a considerable asset in this respect, allowing europe to weigh in with the united states within the g20 in order to put an end to tax havens. we are at a pivotal moment. the economic crisis has made people desperate, and fraud has angered them. every hesitation, every hesitation, is for the european public's benefit, for the benefit of those who cheat, those who profit because they can afford to. we have an obligation to build a genuine banking union to combat fraud and tax evasion and to finally lift banking secrecy within the european union. it's an emergency.
in writing. tax fraud and evasion cost the european union €1 trillion a year, which is equivalent to €2,000 for every european citizen. this is partly due to the lack of coordination of tax policies in the member states. in times of economic and budgetary crisis, when state support seems more necessary than ever, the union cannot stand idly by and must put in place a coherent european strategy. i therefore voted in favour of this text which calls on the european commission to lay the foundations for a coordinated approach between all the member states to combat tax fraud and tax evasion within the european union.
in writing. taxation is not just a burden that everyone wants to avoid, it also has a deeper meaning. the tax contribution is the acceptance of a community of sharing, towards which the individual, the household or the enterprise have duties. the tax must nevertheless be fair and proportionate; the product must be used rationally. it'll make him more acceptable. the european union is the epitome of global free trade, which benefits above all the richest, the biggest and the fastest. the growing phenomenon of tax havens and tax evasion is only the consequence. it would be illusory to want to combat them without re-establishing some form of protective borders. the own-initiative report preaches virtue for others and would like us to believe that the european commission will be the answer to the problems it largely helps to create.
in writing. €1 000 billion a year in tax revenue in the union, €60 to €80 billion in france alone: these figures are all the more scandalous at a time when the european citizen is hard pressed to contribute. we live in a world where capital flows freely, without any restrictions or controls. this is one of the objectives set out in article 63 of the treaties in brussels. the fraudsters will be in singapore or the seychelles before the union can do anything. first of all, action must be taken at national level, since the union includes tax havens, countries with aggressive tax policies or particularly advantageous statuses, such as the dutch holding companies dear to mittal. there is no salvation to be expected from brussels, which wants to take advantage of this to impose tax harmonization or a new step towards global governance. i also regret that the focus is on the automatic exchange of banking information, which concerns only individuals. it is certainly very media-friendly and popular, but it does not solve the problems of tax optimisation, of european banks operating offshore, or of money laundering in the black economy, which are the main issues involved.
in writing. the european parliament has long called for a genuinely effective fight against tax evasion. with this resolution we are making it clear that it is unacceptable that tax evasion and avoidance are still so poorly sanctioned in europe, whereas with a little political will we can fight them. this is why this resolution is based on concrete proposals such as the automatic exchange of information, the establishment of a blacklist of tax havens and tax harmonization. european leaders must also move in this direction and go beyond a simple declaration of intent. in this way the european union will show that it is capable of taking action against this scourge which is damaging our economies and our solidarity and at the same time feeding the mistrust of our citizens.
in writing. i supported this report which makes the fight against fraud, tax evasion and tax havens a priority for the parliament and the european social democrats. in times of crisis, the european union and the member states cannot afford to be divided over this scourge which corresponds to a deficit of over 1 000 billion euros a year! this very good text makes a series of strong and concrete proposals to the council and the commission. firstly, we are calling for better harmonization of taxation for companies in order to prevent unfair competition. secondly, we call for the end of banking secrecy on the continent and the establishment of a common platform for the automatic exchange of information. finally, the european union must speak with one voice on the international stage by drawing up common tax conventions with third countries and by requiring all banks to disclose all information on european residents holding accounts outside the european union. the commission must also draw up a blacklist of tax havens on the basis of much stricter criteria.
in writing. with the annual loss of income from tax evasion and avoidance estimated at eur 1 000 billion each year, including eur 60 to 80 billion for france, and with scandals on the increase, the european union decided to address this major issue, which was on the agenda of the european council of 22 may 2013. i regret that at the end of this council we heard a lot of promises but that there were few concrete answers. the automatic exchange of information is a good initiative but will not be implemented and operational before the end of the year. finally, the prospect of overcoming the blockade imposed by austria and luxembourg is conditional on equivalent agreements with switzerland, andorra, monaco, san marino and liechtenstein. efforts in this area must be stepped up. i think that the european parliament's recommendations on this subject are a good basis for work, particularly for the g8 in june which will be devoted to the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. tax fraud is an unsustainable injustice that must be fought with the most vigorous intransigence: every year, nearly €1 000 billion is stolen from the budgets of the european states. in other words, this fraud costs every european tax household an extra 2000 euros a year! taxation, it is too often forgotten, is the first cement of the social contract which shapes states. it must be fair and honored by all. to deal with this situation, we must call for the consolidation of a european tax system. i therefore voted in favour of this text. it is essential to go much further in the harmonization of national legislation in this field. in times of fiscal difficulties and austerity policies, the introduction of a more harmonious tax system will have extremely beneficial effects on the economy and growth. it will also improve the image of the european union in the eyes of citizens, almost a year before the next european elections.
in writing. we voted on tuesday an ambitious resolution to halve tax evasion by 2020. in order to combat this scourge, which represents a deficit of €1 000 billion, we have called on governments to take action to improve the coordination at european level of the actions of the member states. parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens tax fraud costs the european union more than €1 trillion a year. this is more than the european budget for seven years. member states should adopt measures to combat tax evasion and agree on a european definition of 'tax havens' in order to draw up a common blacklist of such jurisdictions. the member states, which receive financial aid from the european union, are already obliged, in return, to improve tax collection and to fight fraud. the fight against tax evasion and money laundering should be added to the conditions for eu funding. member states should harmonise tax bases and apply measures to prevent companies from shifting profits to tax havens to avoid paying taxes.
in writing. this report makes an uncompromising diagnosis of the extent and responsibility of tax evasion and avoidance. it rightly denounces the austerity measures which have weakened the states in their fight against fraud. it proposes new and effective sanctions and binding solutions, in particular the ban on european banks having subsidiaries in tax havens and the withdrawal of banking licences for those who contribute to tax evasion. my abstention is intended to welcome these developments. but unfortunately this report supports the commission's action plan, while it deviates sharply from it in its principles. the report also refuses to take the fight against tax havens completely out of the oecd's harmful framework, as eva joly's report on the same subject rightly calls for.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which represents a first step in the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax havens. tax fraud and tax evasion cost the european union €1 trillion a year, or 7% of european gdp. in france, these losses amount to 140 billion euros a year, twice the amount of the current deficit. for example, the use of tax havens by large corporations and multinational companies is widespread, and some experts estimate that almost half of the world's trade passes through tax havens. in this context, it seems that the real austerity policy that can lead to an exit from the current crisis is indeed a policy of austerity against this systemic tax evasion, and not austerity measures that weigh heavily on the purchasing power of citizens. we are now waiting for the parliament's wishes to be acted upon.
in writing. it is estimated that tax fraud and tax evasion in the european union cost €1 trillion in lost tax revenues each year, or about €2 000 per citizen per year. i supported the report's guidelines because i share the european objective of at least halving the tax gap by 2020. this requires joint action by the 27 member states, and it is important that each state provides its tax administration with sufficient resources. in parallel, the eu should focus on cooperation and exchange of tax information between member states and with the european institutions. as regards tax havens, a common european approach is essential, and i strongly support and encourage the draft european blacklist of tax havens. but tax evasion is not limited to the eu. it is therefore also important to offer cooperation and assistance to third countries which are not tax havens. in parallel, the union should ensure that it plays a leading role in this area at major international summits (g8, g20) in order to achieve a multilateral international agreement on the automatic exchange of information in tax matters.
in writing. the cahuzac scandal has put tax evasion back at the heart of the european agenda. tax fraud is a public health problem and costs the european union more than a trillion euros a year. the uncollected taxes therefore amount to about eur 2000 per citizen each year. at a time of drastic reductions in public deficits, this shortfall is weighing heavily on all european taxpayers. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which proposes that the union adopt a precise definition of tax havens, establish a blacklist of institutions that encourage fraud and establish a panel of sanctions against those institutions and bankers who offer their clients fraudulent tax avoidance. unfortunately, some states are still resisting, and the european council has not yet taken ambitious steps to bring about real transparency of financial flows.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report of the parliament by a socialist comrade, detailing 30 concrete measures to tackle tax evasion and tax avoidance and tax havens. today, a trillion euros evaporate every year. in times of crisis this is all the more intolerable, since these amounts could, and should, be used to promote growth and finance major projects. it is also simply unacceptable that some companies, through more or less complex tax arrangements, can get away with paying only 1% of taxes at a time when increasing efforts are being demanded of employees. everyone has to contribute, it's a matter of justice. the report was widely adopted and included provisions for the drawing up of a european blacklist of tax havens. the commission has also proposed measures to coordinate policies to abolish fiscal dumping. the commission is also proposing to withdraw banking licences for institutions that facilitate tax fraud and evasion, and to introduce automatic exchange of tax information within the eu and with third countries. i hope that these proposals will reduce these losses by half by 2020.
in writing. in the union, the potential loss of tax revenue due to tax fraud, evasion and avoidance amounts to €1 trillion per year. the situation is all the more intolerable as the budgets of the member states are being subjected to unprecedented austerity. the report by mojca kleva kekus, a slovenian s&d mep, calls into question the lack of coordination between tax policies at european level, which leads to real tax competition between states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. overall, the report represents a real step forward in the fight against tax havens, by proposing definition criteria which are much more stringent than those of the oecd, and the establishment of a blacklist and sanctions for jurisdictions which meet these criteria. it also intends to impose enhanced transparency measures on multinational companies, banks and member states in the fight against tax fraud and evasion. i therefore fully support this report, as do a large majority of members in the plenary.
in writing. − the european parliament's resolution on combating tax fraud and tax avoidance and tax havens is an important step towards the regulation of this area at both eu and international level. it costs each european citizen around eur 2000 per year to avoid taxes. the eu as a whole loses around one trillion euros every year. these figures clearly illustrate the scale of the problem. the resolution rightly stresses the need for closer coordination of measures to combat tax evasion at eu level. for example, effective taxpayer identification is necessary for the successful exchange of information between tax authorities. the european commission should therefore speed up the development of an eu taxpayer identification number applicable to all legal and natural persons involved in cross-border transactions. international cooperation is equally important. the eu must have a uniform approach to third countries that do not meet the standards set by the eu. the development of a common approach to tax havens is of paramount importance and the european blacklist of tax havens should therefore be established by 31 december 2014. an internationally binding multilateral agreement on the automatic exchange of information in tax matters is also needed. the eu must therefore play a leading role in discussions in the organisation for economic cooperation and development, the g20 and g8 meetings and other international fora. the resolution adopted by the european parliament is a step in the right direction, but the hardest work is still ahead.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. the cost of these practices is estimated at €1 trillion a year in the european union, more than the eu budget over 7 years.... the remarkable work of the international investigation "offshore leaks" indicates that up to €25 trillion is "hidden" in tax havens today. as governments choose to reduce public spending, even in crucial sectors such as health and education, and demand additional efforts from the populations, it is urgent to restore these misappropriated tax revenues. the report calls for a definitive end to banking secrecy and for sanctions to be imposed on institutions that encourage such practices, including the suspension of their activities. while not always illegal, these actions are intolerable. we can only hope that these proposals will be put into practice by the other european institutions and that some member states, such as austria, will stop opposing them.
in writing. at a time when our debt is at record levels and tax revenues are being squeezed by the recession, it is imperative to redouble efforts to tackle tax evasion and avoidance. this amounts to over €1 trillion a year, or an average of €2,000 per european citizen! the first way to ensure more efficient tax collection is, in my view, to bring together the many tax systems towards a fair and sustainable european taxation for our companies. the member states would thus significantly reduce the benefits derived from tax optimisation and would automatically recover a share of the revenue that they have lost. it is also essential to punish tax evasion and tax fraud more severely, which are completely illegal, unlike tax optimisation. this requires the conclusion of agreements on the exchange of information at european and global level to collect taxes and prosecute fraudsters. i am also glad to see that countries such as luxembourg and switzerland are moving forward on this issue, because citizens would not understand that at a time when they are being asked to make an unprecedented fiscal effort, not all states are mobilized.
in writing. parliament has decided for the second time to draw up a report on taxation in europe in order to unlock the growth potential of the member states. the report recalls that fiscal policies remain the responsibility of the member states. nevertheless, it appears necessary to ensure better coordination of these policies by creating a european tax information system. i am particularly in favour of tax measures to encourage research and development and environmental taxes proposed on the 'polluter pays' principle. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in my view, the re-founding of the european union is a matter of taxation. it's the big story of the next few months. as such, if we are not able to achieve undeniable results in the fight against tax evasion, we lose all credibility. in this period of economic and budgetary recovery, the billions of euros that are not taxed are waterways in the european ship that are leading us straight to the shipwreck. the generosity of the member states and of europe has lasted too long. tax optimization is the euphemism for the cheating, money laundering and corruption that plague our democracies. while the united states is moving forward, it would be incomprehensible for the eu to remain behind. we therefore want a timetable, we want specific and offensive measures, and in this respect the general interest must prevail over the few very specific cases whose arguments always surprise us with their bad faith.
in writing. i voted in favour of this annual report on taxation, which aims to establish growth-friendly tax systems and a common platform for exchanging information on tax matters. it is up to the member states to strengthen their rules on tax evasion, since tax administration is not a european competence. we have sent a strong signal to the member states, inviting them to cooperate in harmonising their tax bases, implementing measures to prevent companies from shifting profits to tax havens to avoid paying taxes, and improving the cross-checking of customs and tax data to avoid vat fraud.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the impact of taxation on unlocking growth potential in the eu. i am convinced that there is a need to strengthen coordination in tax matters by creating a european tax information system. tax incentives for research and development should also be strengthened as the report recommends, as this is the main source of future growth, as should a real rethink on environmental taxation. finally, i also consider it urgent to look at the taxation of crossborder activities, to enable economic operators to take full advantage of the single market.
in writing. in times of economic difficulties such as the present, it is essential to ensure that tax is properly collected and used. the money of the european people must be a tool for economic recovery, and that is why i support the approach advocated in this text that investment, competitiveness and employment must be given priority in our taxation perspective. it places particular emphasis on the fight against fraud and tax evasion, and on support for smes, which i believe are two key tools in achieving our objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for the coordination of european tax policies with a view to promoting sustainable economic growth. it is true that taxation is a heavy burden on the economy and on growth. but it should be noted that a well-managed tax policy can also promote economic growth. this is why we should emphasize fiscal measures which stimulate demand or stimulate development. for example, it is preferable to avoid any increase in taxes on labour which add to social charges and thus weigh on employment in our territories. however, an adequate national tax policy is no longer sufficient, and coordination of european tax policies is really needed in order to reduce the administrative burdens currently placed on european actors carrying out cross-border activities.
in writing. at a time when the european union is going through a serious crisis linked to the loss of european citizens' support for its project, it seems to me timely and even urgent to rethink europe's vocation and to lay the foundations for a new europe. the crisis has had the advantage that the member states have understood the need to deepen economic governance and integration, which are the counterpart of the monetary integration that is currently under way. however, it seems to me that the fears of social dumping and the loss of competitiveness in many member states are not only linked to international competition, especially that of emerging countries, but also to certain tax practices which lead to unfair internal competition. the new europe must also be a europe which is more harmonized in tax matters. tax policy is a national competence and this cannot be called into question. however, i think that a reflection on tax harmonization, particularly on the taxation of companies, is necessary when we note that in france, corporate income tax is the highest in europe (36.1%) and that it is only 10% in bulgaria and cyprus.
in writing. as each member state has its own tax system, there are many differences which have a negative impact on the potential economic growth of the european union. tax harmonization is difficult to envisage, but it is necessary to find a european alternative. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which proposes the creation of a european tax information system to facilitate the coordination of the various national tax structures.
in writing. i supported the annual report on taxation devoted to unlocking the european union's economic growth potential. although taxation is a competence of the member states, we believe that a coordination of tax systems in europe would increase the efficiency of these measures and thus foster growth in the eu. we also call on governments not to impede growth, not to put smes at risk by excessive tax policies, but to promote investment and innovation. finally, a european tax information system would promote the coordination of national tax structures.
in writing. beyond pious wishes for harmonization and some relevant analyses of the dangers of consumer tax increases, this report multiplies the liberal poncifs in tax matters, without proposing any new and effective solutions, especially against tax fraud and evasion. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against the annual report on taxation. the report, with all its good intentions, is far from offering satisfactory solutions to stimulate the economy in the european union in a sustainable and responsible way. it is, on the contrary, a flowery display of the european union, which we do not want. by once again advocating competition between the tax systems of the member states, this report encourages tax dumping. however, the logic of cooperation must be replaced by the logic of competition which currently prevails in tax matters within the union and a more efficient and fairer tax system must be established. the report also stresses the 'need' to reduce labour costs, while the share of capital in value added has increased considerably over the last 30 years. repeating and reaffirming outdated liberal remedies, dangerous for the vast majority of the population and especially for the most disadvantaged, will not allow the european union to emerge from the crisis but will on the contrary contribute to deepening it.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this recommendation by andrew duff which endorses the proposal of the council of the eu not to convene a convention to add to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union a protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu to the czech republic. i agree with the rapporteur that this proposal would have little or no effect.
in writing. the czech republic had expressed its intention, during the negotiations on the treaty of lisbon, to join protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights to poland and the united kingdom. on 5 september 2011, the council submitted to the european council a draft for the revision of the treaties concerning the addition of a protocol on the application of the charter to the czech republic. i think that the failure to convene a convention would not have a major impact, and i voted in favour of the duff report not to convene a convention.
in writing. since the negotiations of the lisbon treaty, the czech republic has expressed its wish to join the protocol to the charter of fundamental rights, which provides for 'non-participation', like poland and the uk. in accordance with the procedure, parliament was to be consulted before the council took a decision to amend the treaties. i voted in favour of this report, considering that it was not necessary to convene a convention to validate the addition of the czech republic to the signatories of the charter protocol, since this does not pose any major problem.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation whereby parliament approves the european council's proposal to refuse to accede to the request of former president vaclav klaus to convene a convention to allow the accession of the czech republic to the protocol on the derogation granted to the united kingdom concerning the application of the charter of fundamental rights. i believe that the european union must guarantee its citizens and residents equal rights. it would therefore have been unacceptable for citizens of the czech republic to be excluded - as unfortunately british citizens are - from the rights recognised by the charter and to suffer a weakening of their legal protection. i would remind you that the charter of fundamental rights has been applicable to the czech republic since 1 december 2009, the date on which the treaty of lisbon entered into force. it has significantly increased the level of protection of the fundamental rights granted to czech citizens. a reversal is therefore not admissible.
in writing. during the negotiations on the lisbon treaty, the government of the czech republic expressed the wish that its country should join protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. i voted in favour of the council's decision not to convene a convention to consider this matter.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which recalls that the heads of state and government decided on 29 and 30 october 2009 to annex to the treaties a protocol on the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights to the czech republic. the czech republic has applied to accede to protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. since the annexation of this protocol entails an amendment of the treaties, parliament was required to give its opinion on this procedure.
in writing. the czech government has expressed its willingness to accede to protocol 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. in view of the concerns expressed in the report, in particular as regards the reasons for the czech republic's accession to protocol 30, the position taken by czech civil society (trade unions, the european association for the defence of human rights, etc.) and the possible interpretation of protocol 30, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. since the negotiations of the lisbon treaty, the czech republic has expressed its wish to join the protocol to the charter of fundamental rights, which provides for 'non-participation', like poland and the uk. in accordance with the procedure, parliament was to be consulted before the council took a decision to amend the treaties. i voted in favour of this report because this protocol does not exempt the czech republic from the obligations of the charter.
in writing. i am opposed to pseudo-rational arguments that the czech republic's request to apply protocol no 30 annexed to the treaties is not, in the end, a request for a derogation, an "opting-out" as it is called in your jargon, or that the czech authorities and parliament may have changed their mind. what interests me in this case is that a member state has asked for and has been granted a review of the treaties in its favour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the czech republic is a recent member of the union. his weight, like his request for revision, is modest. but it shows that with a little political courage, a government can make a difference! tomorrow, france will finally be governed by responsible people who will demand an end to the euro and the schengen agreements, among other things, for themselves. and we are sure that many others will follow suit. i can understand why, panicked by this prospect, the euro-fanatics in this house felt obliged to express their disagreement. anyway, their opinion is optional.
in writing. i voted in favour of this legislative resolution by which parliament calls on the european council not to consider the proposal for treaty amendments requested by former president vaclav klaus to allow the accession of the czech republic to the derogating protocol agreed with the united kingdom on the application of the charter of fundamental rights. i believe that the european union must guarantee its citizens and residents equal rights. it would therefore have been unacceptable for citizens of the czech republic to be excluded - as unfortunately british citizens are - from the rights recognised by the charter and to suffer a weakening of their legal protection. i would remind you that the charter of fundamental rights has been applicable to the czech republic since 1 december 2009, the date on which the treaty of lisbon entered into force. it has significantly increased the level of protection of the fundamental rights granted to czech citizens. a reversal is therefore not admissible.
in writing. during the negotiations on the lisbon treaty, the government of the czech republic expressed the wish that its country should join protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. the european council consulted the parliament on the advisability of examining the proposed amendment. it should be noted that protocol no 30 does not exempt the united kingdom and poland from the binding provisions of the charter, nor is it a 'non-participation clause'. furthermore, the czech senate, in its resolution of 6 october 2011, opposed the adoption of protocol no 30 by the czech republic on the grounds that it would lower the level of protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of czech citizens. we have therefore voted in favour of this report, which shows our concern and our scepticism about the czech republic's request.
in writing. i supported this text which proposes 'the establishment of rules governing a simple and rapid mechanism for the recognition of civil protection measures ordered in a member state'. given the freedom of movement within the eu, it was necessary to harmonise our legislation in this area and to complete the criminal law component adopted in 2011. i believe that everyone should be able to enjoy equal protection against domestic harassment or violence wherever they are in the eu. the text in question makes it possible, in particular, to simplify procedures for rapid protection of victims.
in writing. the proposal on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters is part of a package of measures to strengthen the rights of victims in the european union. the proposal complements a proposal for a directive aimed at ensuring the mutual recognition of protection measures taken in criminal matters. this is to protect victims of violence and to ensure that temporary protection granted in one member state remains valid when a person travels or settles in another member state. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to protect victims of violence, including domestic violence, stalking and violence against children. the aim was to ensure and simplify the mutual recognition of civil law protection measures taken in a member state. the rules on information, translation and information to the parties have been strengthened. the problem of mutual recognition of measures taken by an authority in a member state is one which i very often face in the committee on petitions, to which i belong, since the same problem concerns measures for the protection of minors in divorce cases. while land borders no longer exist in europe, administrative borders remain and it is important that even temporary protection measures granted in one member state remain valid when a person travels or settles in another member state.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which aims to strengthen the rights of victims in the european union and improves the commission's proposal for a regulation. the amendments to this report, which allow for easier recognition of protection measures, a strengthening of the rights of parties to information, translation and assistance, and a simplification of administrative procedures, will have a positive impact on european citizens.
in writing. given the existence and constantly increasing freedom of movement within the european union, it was necessary for the union to take the necessary measures to recognise and protect victims of crime. with this text, which i supported, people protected by a member state of the union as victims will now be able to move freely and safely within the territory of all the other member states of the european union. this text represents a real step forward in strengthening the rights of european victims.
in writing. this is the second time we have taken a decision on the question of mutual recognition of protection measures, the first time in criminal matters, this time in civil matters. in a european area without frontiers, it is necessary to ensure that the protection granted to a person, a victim in one state, also applies, and in an uninterrupted manner, in any other member state to which that person travels. all this sounds obvious, as a logical continuation of the further construction of a european area of freedom and justice, of the establishment of a genuinely european legal order: the protection granted by a state to a victim must accompany the victim when he or she is on the move. today's vote marks a further step forward in judicial cooperation and a major step forward in prevention, and i am very pleased about that. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rights of victims are respected and that the rights of victims are protected.
in writing. while more than one in four women in france have reportedly been the victim of repeated domestic violence, i welcome the adoption of this text which will facilitate the freedom of movement of union citizens, women in particular, while ensuring better protection for victims of gender-based violence and violence by relatives, such as physical violence, harassment, sexual assault, stalking, intimidation and other forms of coercion. these victims of violence will thus be able, through a simplified procedure, to live and work outside their country of origin, with the assurance that the obligations imposed on the person posing a threat to their dignity, safety, personal freedoms and sexual integrity will apply wherever they are in europe. so this is a serious step forward for the rights of victims, which i strongly support.
in writing. as a member of the femm committee, i welcome the adoption of this regulation by parliament after the agreement reached with the council which closes the adoption of the victims package and allows mutual recognition between member states of protection orders in civil matters. victims will be able to move freely throughout the union with the certainty that these measures will be applied in the same way in all member states. the victims package will remain a major achievement of this mandate by significantly improving the rights of victims. it should be remembered that the majority of these victims are women, since the council of europe estimates that 20 to 25% of women will experience physical violence at some point in their lives.
in writing. within the european union, there is mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters, but no equivalent in civil matters. it was therefore necessary to address this so that victims of stalking, harassment or gender-based violence who are protected in one member state would benefit from equivalent and readily accessible protection if they travel to another country in the european union. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which fills the legal vacuum in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the new measures to protect victims of violence across europe. the aim is to ensure that victims of such violence, in particular women and children, are fully protected in all member states. until now, protection could cease when a person moved from one state to another. a new regulation will thus apply directly at national level to allow for the mutual recognition of civil protection measures. it will also simplify the administrative procedure by means of a single, multilingual certificate. in the past, the cost of translation and the length of the procedure did not provide sufficient protection for victims of violence and threats to physical and moral integrity.
in writing. by joining the stockholm programme and allowing for the mutual recognition of civil decisions for the protection of victims of violence, this report allows for the harmonisation of the different procedures existing within the european union. i therefore vote in favour of this report because it corresponds to the objective of harmonizing the various european rights, which i can only welcome.
in writing. the objective of this report is to ensure mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, in order to strengthen the rights of victims in the european union. in other words, victims of violence who benefit from a protection measure in one member state should be able to enjoy the same level of protection in other member states, so that they can exercise their right to move freely within the union without hindrance. by providing for a rapid and effective mechanism for a certificate issued by the state of origin to be recognised in the host state and by not providing for any grounds for refusal of this certificate, this text ensures more effective protection for victims within the european union. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. the freedom of movement we enjoy as european citizens is regarded by the vast majority of us as a very positive development. but sometimes it can be double-edged. although protection measures are already recognised in criminal matters, this is not yet the case in civil matters. as a result, victims of violence, especially family members, are likely to find themselves completely deprived when travelling to other eu countries if protection measures in civil matters are not recognised. it seems to me absurd that one of the great achievements of european cooperation should, because of a legal vacuum, make some of our fellow european citizens particularly vulnerable. that is not my idea of the european union. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which is intended to remedy this intolerable situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text whereby the european parliament gives its consent to conclude an agreement with canada on supply chain security issues. a broad consensus has emerged in parliament to extend the scope of the agreement on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters (acam) concluded with canada in 1998. this agreement is also a positive signal as the eu is currently engaged in negotiations to conclude a free trade agreement with canada.
in writing. in 2005, canada expressed its willingness to develop closer cooperation between the european union and canada in the field of supply chain security. the proposed agreement builds on the previous agreement by extending its scope. i believe that it is essential to improve customs cooperation between the two contracting parties and that the procedure should have a positive effect on the negotiations for a trade agreement between the european union and canada, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. while canada-eu relations were based on a customs cooperation agreement, canada wanted to develop closer cooperation with the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement, which aims to improve customs cooperation in the field of supply chain and risk management. this agreement is fundamental to the ongoing negotiations on a trade agreement between the eu and canada.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the eu-canada customs cooperation agreement. this trade is a growth engine for our companies, which are more easily able to open up to the canadian market and export there. i therefore thought it important, as this report does, to extend the scope of the agreement and to have a clear legal basis on security and supply chain issues. such measures will have a positive effect on the ongoing negotiations for a trade agreement between the eu and canada.
in writing. while customs relations between the european union and canada are governed by the customs cooperation agreement of 1998, the european parliament approved the outcome of the negotiations between the two parties for a new agreement establishing in-depth customs cooperation. once in force, it will enable the union and canada to establish enhanced standards for security, information exchange and mutual recognition. it will also contribute to increasing the security of the global supply chain. the establishment of enhanced customs cooperation between our two economies complements the free trade agreement currently under negotiation between the european union and canada, which has been in limbo since late 2012.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which establishes deeper cooperation between the european union and canada in the field of supply chain security. in a globalised environment, no country can today ensure the security of its supply chain alone, so international cooperation is essential. the agreement also facilitates legitimate trade between the two countries, avoiding unnecessary economic burdens.
in writing. customs cooperation between the european union and canada is not new. an agreement on customs cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters (acam) has existed since 1998. the report, following a request from canada, lays down the legal basis for a hypothetical enhanced cooperation agreement on supply chain security. i have taken a position in favour of such an approach because it increases trade security and makes positive progress in the negotiations currently under way for the drafting of a free trade agreement between the european union and canada.
in writing. on wednesday, i supported the report on the eu-canada customs cooperation agreement on the issue of supply chain security. the aim is to strengthen the security of the supply chain in trade between the two partners. the events of 11 september and the challenges of globalisation demonstrate the need to increase trade security through common standards. it is essential that the states cooperate and coordinate their customs control systems. with this in mind, this agreement establishes a common legal basis consisting of safety control rules and minimum standards to strengthen risk management.
in writing. the report sets out the modalities of the european banking authority's action in parallel with the european central bank's action in the supervision of european banks. banking supervision is a key element of the banking union promoted by the european commissioner for the internal market and services, michel barnier. however, the final vote on this report was postponed until the negotiations between the various institutions concerned had been concluded.
in writing. the european union has just taken a further step in the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism. the ecb will soon be able to supervise the main european financial institutions, thus enabling the consolidation of a genuine banking union. however, no final agreement will be reached without first agreeing with the ecb on the modalities of democratic control over the ecb. it is normal that any transfer of competence at community level should be accompanied by adequate democratic control by the representative assemblies of the citizens of the union: the european parliament and the national parliaments. a second concern will have to be addressed: we do not have official guarantees today as to the clear separation between the monetary and the supervisory tasks of the ecb. this separation is, however, essential for the independence of the ecb when exercising its democratic control over the actions of its supervisory body. the ecb will eventually have to be able to supervise all european banks; in parallel, a mechanism for the resolution of bank failures will have to be established. we are at the beginning of an ambitious process, and i hope that it will be thoughtful and thorough so as to avoid hasty mistakes.
in writing. i supported these two texts, which are a first step towards the establishment of the banking union, as they help to establish banking supervision within the euro area but also for the voluntary non-euro area countries. the establishment of a banking union is an essential step in the deepening of the european single market and would finally provide real protection for savers, investors and taxpayers.
in writing. the european banking authority (eba) was established to address the shortcomings in financial supervision highlighted by the economic crisis. at a time when the european union is seeking to establish a single supervisory mechanism, it is essential that the european banking authority, in cooperation with the european central bank, should play a leading role. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which changes the eba's functions so that it can obtain a new status at european level, enabling it to contribute more effectively to prudential supervision, whether by developing convergence practices between national supervisory bodies or by carrying out more extensive bank stress tests.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european banking authority and the prudential supervision of credit institutions. the financial crisis has revealed a lack of regulation of banks within the euro area, and it is therefore necessary to address this problem by establishing a single european banking supervisory system. through the european supervisory authority, the union has decided to confer supervisory power on the european central bank. the commission will be responsible for directly supervising the largest banks in the euro area and will also be able to give its opinion on the supervision of other banks.
in writing. my colleagues and i discussed the role that the european central bank would play in its specific activities of supervising european banks. banking supervision is a key element of the banking union promoted by the european commissioner for the internal market and services, michel barnier. on these issues, i support the agreement reached between the various institutions of the union, which will include european parliament control over the ecb's actions. however, the final vote on this report was postponed until the negotiations between the various institutions concerned had been concluded.
in writing. i supported these two texts, which are a first step towards the establishment of the banking union, as they help to establish banking supervision within the euro area but also for the voluntary non-euro area countries. the establishment of a banking union is an essential step in the deepening of the european single market and would finally provide real protection for savers, investors and taxpayers.
in writing. the single supervisory mechanism is one of the main tools that the european union needs to put in place to regulate the activity of banks and to prevent further deviations in the financial sector. it is also a decisive step towards a banking union. i voted for this text because i believe that the european central bank should be the main instrument of european banking supervision which this text will enable to be established. the european central bank is the only institution which can effectively restore the confidence of market participants by promoting the safety and soundness of the european banking system. it is nevertheless essential that an interinstitutional agreement be drawn up in order to submit the new tasks of the financial institution to adequate democratic scrutiny by the european parliament before the system becomes operational.
in writing. i supported the project on the specific tasks of the european central bank in banking supervision. in return for the new powers granted to the ecb, parliament is working to establish a system of democratic control of the supervisory authority. in particular, we are campaigning for greater involvement of national parliaments in the oversight process and for better access to documents for the european supervisory authority, the parliament and national legislatures so that they are better equipped to play their role.
in writing. i voted on the text on the specific tasks of the european central bank relating to policies on the prudential supervision of credit institutions. the role of the european central bank must be extended and new supervisory powers conferred on it. the ecb will directly supervise the major banks in the union and will be able to decide on the supervision of other banks. we want democratic control of the ecb's supervisory tasks, access to information and the possibility of conducting investigations. the ecb's supervisory role is additional to its monetary policy responsibilities. the ecb will work in cooperation with the european banking authority, which issues recommendations and develops convergence practices between national supervisors.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to place the european central bank (ecb) at the centre of gravity of the single supervisory mechanism by entrusting it with a number of specific tasks in the supervision of credit institutions. the granting of such powers to the ecb raises the central question of the democratic legitimacy of these decisions. it is unacceptable to expand the powers of the ecb in this way, an opaque institution which is already going beyond its mandate and which is not subject to any democratic control. this proposal also raises the problem of the necessary separation between monetary activities and the supervision of banking institutions and thus the problem of conflicts of interest which might arise if the supervision of banks is thus left to the ecb. i therefore opposed the report.
in writing. further increase the powers of the european central bank without any guarantee of democratic control, as usual, when we know the consequences of its decisions, especially for the countries of southern europe, and when we know that in view of what is commonly called the financial crisis that has affected the european union since 2009, it has also been slow to take decisions, and that these last, far from stopping the said crisis, have contributed to plunging a number of states into recession ... the commission is now considering giving it powers in the areas of bank accreditation, supervision and regulation of the major european banks in particular. its new supervisory tasks, previously assigned to central banks and supervisory and control bodies in the member states, are a first step towards what is known as the 'banking union'. i therefore vote, like all the members of my group, against this text which gives the ecb additional powers in the area of banking supervision, which are neither in its current practice nor in its powers, much less in respect of popular sovereignty.
in writing. i welcome the outcome of this vote, which confirms the guarantee of deposits up to eur 100 000 and, above all, validates the establishment of a single banking supervision mechanism (ssm). this new mechanism is our strong response to the spanish and cypriot banking crises, which unfortunately showed that the national banking supervisory authorities, wishing to protect their national banking assets, have failed in their task. the european central bank will now be the one to keep a close eye on the financial health of the 6,000 largest european banks. in particular, it will ensure that the new capital, debt and liquidity requirements we have just adopted are respected, thereby preventing a snowball effect that would affect the euro area as a whole. we now hope that our german colleagues in the bundestag will swiftly ratify this agreement, so that we can move as quickly as possible to the actual implementation of the ssm, which responds to a strong demand from citizens for better control of banks and fulfils one of our commitments to get out of the crisis!
in writing. every year, many accidents involving pyrotechnic devices occur when they could be avoided by preventive work. for this reason i supported this text, which aims to harmonize the legislation on the sale of pyrotechnic articles and to strengthen the safety of citizens when using these items. the commission proposal introduces stricter labelling rules and makes instructions clearer by requiring manufacturers to write a package leaflet in the language of the country where the product is sold. the text also sets out specific categories of fireworks which will make it possible to better understand the potential risks of the objects in question.
in writing. the purpose of the amendments is to amend a commission proposal for a recast of the directive on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market. the amendments have four objectives: to bring the directive into line with the new legislative framework and to ensure legal certainty, to reduce bureaucratic constraints, to strengthen consumer protection and to ensure better market surveillance. in view of the improvements made, i voted in favour of the recast of directive 2007/23/ec on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which updates the legislative framework for the placing on the market of pyrotechnic articles. we have amended the previous directive to better protect the consumer, by defining more clearly the obligations of each economic operator and by establishing a clearer framework to ensure legal certainty for both the consumer and the manufacturer.
in writing. due to different enforcement between member states and the complexity of the regulations on pyrotechnic products, the conditions on the market for these products are currently unequal between the different european states, and these products do not sufficiently meet the safety requirements. it was then necessary to amend the existing legislation in order to bring about more harmonization and to clarify legally, both for companies and for the states, the safety conditions of these products. that is why i supported this text.
in writing. the transposition of the directive on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market has created divergences in legislation between the member states of the european union, but has mainly resulted in highly technical legislation, which is difficult to understand and therefore difficult to apply by economic operators and public authorities. the main consequences of this are unequal working conditions and the presence of unsafe products on the market. a reaction from the european union was therefore necessary. that is why i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes a revision of the directive to make life easier for the people concerned by simplifying the internal market for pyrotechnic articles.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the marketing of pyrotechnic articles in the internal market. the aim of the directive is to complete an existing directive which has shortcomings in terms of european harmonisation legislation and is poorly applied in the member states. we therefore want to create a new legislative framework which removes the inconsistencies of the original text and provides greater consumer protection, while reducing bureaucratic constraints and ensuring better market surveillance.
in writing. while i want to protect the audiovisual sector in the context of the negotiations for a free trade agreement with the united states, legislation is also needed to adapt to the challenges posed by technological developments in this sector. that is why i supported the own-initiative report by mr borys, which focuses in particular on the issues of accessibility of programmes in the audiovisual media by making the use of subtitling or sign language more widespread.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report on the application of the audiovisual media services directive which gives an overview of the application of the directive in the various member states. the sma directive is a central instrument of regulation, contrary to what some minorities in the european parliament advocate, to better coordinate national legislation and to defend and promote the diversity of cultural expressions. in this dense text, several ideas are worth remembering. among them is the idea that public media services should be at the heart of the system, as it is their responsibility to ensure that information, especially online, is accessible to citizens. or the idea that we must strengthen the protection of minors against exposure to advertising. finally, in order to better identify all the issues surrounding this directive, we ask the european commission to present an interim evaluation report before its next implementation report.
in writing. the audiovisual media services directive is the central element of eu media regulation. this is why it was important to clarify the scope of the directive. while its implementation differs in the member states, it remains the most appropriate instrument for regulating the coordination of national legislation applying to all audiovisual media and safeguarding the principle of the unesco convention. for this reason i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the audiovisual media services directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the transposition and application of this directive, which aims to ensure technological neutrality as well as the right to provide audiovisual services, freedom of expression, and the right to information and consumer protection. successes have been achieved (the fight against hate speech and media pluralism), but some efforts remain to be made by the member states (promotion of european works, code of ethics on advertising practices). the central issue in this debate was to define the place of self-regulation by the member states, which i consider to be quite positive, but which cannot replace legal standards.
in writing. the principle of free movement of services in the internal market applies to television programmes as to other areas of activity. today, any citizen can watch tv channels from all over europe, not only on his television set but also on his mobile phone or tablet. to function optimally, the common television market needs a minimum set of common rules covering advertising, programme production and the protection of minors. these rules are laid down in the sma directive, which governs the coordination of national legislation concerning all audiovisual media. for this regulation to be effective, it is essential that member states transpose european rules at national level in a consistent manner. the commission's commitment to monitor implementation by regularly publishing an implementation report to the european parliament and the council is a step in the right direction. its 2009-2010 report reaffirmed the usefulness of european legislation for individuals who can benefit from a much wider choice of channels and audiovisual services. commission monitoring should also enable the eu to assess the quality of regulation and to plan for possible adaptation to better meet future challenges.
in writing. the audiovisual media service directive is the main basis for eu media regulation. it is all the more important because it ensures the expression of cultural diversity, which is one of the community's fundamental principles. i voted for this text because it seems to me that a directive is the appropriate instrument only if it is correctly transposed and applied. however, there are still major differences in the implementation of this directive, and it is essential that they disappear in order for it to be fully effective in all the member states of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the application of the audiovisual media services directive. in the light of changes in member states' media freedom laws, an annual review at european level is necessary to ensure compliance with european union law on media freedom and pluralism. in this draft, parliament aims to protect the independence of journalists from external pressure and threats and to promote investigative journalism. we also want to include minimum standards for the protection of freedom of expression. finally, the revision of the directive aims to introduce measures that will improve the transparency of the sector and the independence of the public media managers.
in writing. the report insists that audiovisual media services should remain excluded from any liberalisation agreements concluded in the framework of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) negotiations. it denounces, in the name of the right to information, the concentration of media ownership. it considers that self-regulation by the media can only be a complement to legislative provisions and thus to regulation by the public authorities. he is concerned about the possibilities of access to different media by all regardless of social status or health status of people. it promotes european and independent productions. that is why i support this text.
mr president, it is clear that the amount of humanitarian aid from the european union and its member states cannot continue to mask both our political impotence and what the massive increase in the number of refugees reveals, namely our inability to provide a comprehensive political solution to this situation. i also believe that it cannot exempt us from providing proof of our solidarity with the refugees, which in my view implies the activation of a directive such as that on temporary protection in the event of a mass influx, which was invented precisely for this type of situation, nor from looking for the means of relocating refugees to europe in an emergency from the pilot project funds. it is also a european system; i don't know when we'll activate it, if we don't do it now. more generally, i believe that the european union must be involved as a political actor, and as mr salafranca sánchez-neyra has said, today we are out of the picture. geneva ii is without europe for now. and i think there is one who is dealing very well with geneva ii and who is taking advantage of the negotiations and the prospect of negotiations, and that is assad. russia has been supplying assad with weapons to avoid a no-fly zone. we must, next week at council level - and this seems to me very clear and essential - lift this embargo so that we can support the opposition by all means, including military. otherwise we will be on the verge of witnessing the massacre of the syrian people, like the one we witnessed in qusayr today. i would like to say to some of my colleagues that in this particular region of syria, eastern christians are taking up arms alongside the syrian rebels to repel hezbollah. we must not therefore misunderstand the situation and underestimate the efforts we have to make to deal with all the aspects of the situation - military, humanitarian and political - by avoiding putting them in competition!
madam president, we now know that the situation in syria has crossed all limits in all areas and has become unsustainable. no one side seems to be winning and i regret that the international community is powerless in the face of this civil war. since the beginning of the conflict, 80,000 syrians, mostly civilians, including children, of course, have been killed in this horrific slaughter, and it is estimated that more than 6.5 million people are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. moreover, there are over a million refugees in neighbouring countries and this phenomenon is increasing day by day, as we are ineffective. the massive influx of refugees into neighbouring countries is a major factor in destabilising the region and we know that the solution to this conflict is essentially political. i call once again on the international community to react once and for all, and effectively, to put an end to these atrocities. i would also like to congratulate the humanitarian workers who are doing a remarkable job on the ground, despite the very difficult conditions. i would like to say to mrs ashton that in the face of this situation, which looks like a powder keg, the european union must demand that the syrian authorities respect international humanitarian law by guaranteeing access to the victims to ngos and humanitarian workers and by maintaining the amount of humanitarian aid needed to help the most vulnerable.
in writing. the united nations high commissioner for refugees counted more than 1.5 million syrian refugees in neighbouring countries and north africa on 16 may. the situation is alarming both for syria, the region and the international community. the capacity of host countries, particularly lebanon and jordan, is reaching its limits in the face of the growing flow of refugees and the incidents in refugee camps are increasing. i will be supporting tomorrow the resolution i worked on, which calls for the european union to support its action and to put an end to the atrocities committed by the syrian regime against the people. the union is currently the largest donor of humanitarian aid with a total of €473 million, of which €200 million comes from the european union itself. it is urgent that the international community find a political solution to this crisis, even as there are rumours of the use of chemical weapons. a un security council resolution is essential to this end.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 the european union and the member states did not fully take in the wind of freedom that was blowing over the mediterranean countries. they've gotten caught up in a conservative diplomacy and back-up support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we have a moral obligation to help these countries politically, legally and technically to recover the assets illegally accumulated by dictatorships in our member states. the transparency which i called for yesterday in the debate on tax havens is also at stake here. it would stop the flight of 20 to 40 billion euros a year, by preventing dictators from using trusts or foundations to hide money raised at the expense of their people. beyond these ill-gotten gains and their recovery, there is the worrying problem of debt. in international law, a debt incurred under a dictatorship can be called odious. the collapse of these schemes should therefore have entailed at least an audit of the origin of the funds concerned. the creditors, who could not ignore the destination of the loans granted, bear a heavy responsibility. it is up to them now to show courage, either by cancelling debts or by converting them into additional public development aid so that solid democracies can emerge from the revolution.
madam president, the resolution before us is very weak in the face of the arab revolutions and challenges. in these countries, the european union, and especially some of its member states, bear a heavy responsibility, because the dictators were supported without fail, almost until their fall. since then, despite the great speeches, the policies, especially those of the european union, have not changed, they pursue the same objectives and continue to increase the indebtedness of these countries, preventing them from responding to the social demands of the populations at the origin of the revolutions. the return of frozen assets is symbolic. the member states must provide themselves with the means, including legal means, to return these millions of euros, which these countries so badly need, quickly. a judge in france to look after the three countries, mr commissioner! but yes, the debt issue is just as important. some countries, such as germany, are proposing restructuring. it's a pissing machine that gives air. but this should not prevent a real audit to define precisely the odious debt. that's been said before. yes, the european union must also act in this area. the arab peoples really need it.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, minister, i was very surprised to hear you simply repeat the elements of communication on a macroeconomic figure that is completely questionable, and without telling the truth about the content of this negotiation. we are not going to be told that we are going to facilitate the trade in washing machines, socks and oranges between our two continents! what is being negotiated are choices of society, which have been democratically constructed: whether it is public services, whether it is audiovisual services, including the internet and cultural exception, whether it is your refusal to succumb to the american agenda which provides for more gmos, hormone-treated beef and chlorinated meat, whether it is the whole of investors' rights, all this is a matter of choice of society. how, madam minister, are you going to explain to your fellow irish citizens in a few years' time that multinational firms may be demanding hundreds of millions of euros in compensation because ireland, the irish people, have chosen to implement a public health or social policy? these are company choices that we negotiate, and we do it without any information. here we have, between the commission and the council, a negotiating mandate which is evolving. even the european parliamentarians have no access to the development of this negotiating mandate. we are in a situation where citizens cannot know what is being negotiated. you are launching a negotiation where you will trade here a public service, there public procurement, there gmos, there investor rights. this situation, this political construction of a free trade agreement, madam minister, is truly scandalous. you must demand of the commission, even put pressure on it, that this negotiation be transparent. it is totally unacceptable that citizens should be kept out of negotiations which decide democratic choices, and we are not here to extend the american model to europe on the pretext that the european commission has sold you 0.5 per cent growth, madam minister. the green group will vote against this resolution unless our amendments are accepted. we're not ready. europe is not ready. it has no industrial policy, it has no clear enough conception of its economy to negotiate with the united states. we ask you, madam minister, to be serious, not to tell us what you say the commission is telling us, but to listen to what is happening in the european countries. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. in the context of european citizens expecting a revival of their economy, when they are promised growth points that have never been achieved in the past, i consider that yes, there is a lie. if this parliament adopts this resolution without you, mr president, letting the european citizens know what is being negotiated, when it is decisions about society that are being negotiated, when you yourself, mr president, have no negotiating mandate... you are going to adopt a resolution, you are going to support the commission, without knowing what it is negotiating.
the question is "blue cardboard". dear daniel, the version of the warrant i have is dated march 12. i am convinced that there is a new version circulating in the member states. but the question i ask you is this: are you in favour of this version, which is numbered so that there can be no leakage, being made public so that citizens are informed of what the commission is going to negotiate on behalf of the 500 million european citizens on subjects which, as you know, concern them very closely? do you support the mandate of the european commission being made public?
madam president, i would first of all like to say to the commission and the council that in my view this future agreement should not be "over-sold" as if it were going to solve the problems of employment and growth in the european union on its own. these questions of employment and growth are first and foremost for europeans to solve at home. so it's not a service to tell them that it's going to happen by itself. secondly, i think we need to get and ask for special vigilance in four areas. the first is, of course, that of the audiovisual and cultural exception. i support what my colleague, veronique de keyser, has just said on this matter. the second is the question of public procurement. let us not forget that we have smes in europe, and an industry, to support. thirdly, we also have a european model to defend in agriculture, a european model of very high quality, with quality products. i hope that we will be vigilant on this matter too. finally, on the question of standards, we cannot accept a lowering of european standards, nor the idea that there would suddenly be americanised global standards. europeans have a model to defend. that is the level of public opinion that awaits us.
madam president, commissioner, minister, in these times of crisis and of citizens' distrust, every decision we take must be inspired by the imperative to improve the economic and social situation of europeans. i therefore support this agreement. i have, however, serious doubts about the scope of the future negotiations. certain sectors need special attention: agriculture, defence, culture. in agriculture, this field alone is concerned with a number of sensitive issues, such as gmos, geographical indications, cloning and health standards. europeans have made the choice to say 'no' to gmos and to say 'yes' to high standards of health protection. and we have a duty to defend these choices of society to our business partners! like other colleagues, i also wonder why audiovisual services have been included for the first time in a negotiating mandate. i have already asked you, commissioner, to do so in july last year, and i repeat my request, namely to exclude audiovisual services from the negotiating mandate. beyond their economic weight, these areas are of major political importance for europe. i therefore ask the council to reorient the draft mandate, because for this agreement, as for the others, we want social, health and environmental harmonization to always come from the top. finally, i would just like to point out that it is the european parliament which will have the final say in whether or not to approve the final agreement.
commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has always excluded audiovisual services from the negotiation of free trade agreements, whether bilateral or multilateral. the latest examples are the agreements with japan, korea and canada. this exclusion has never prevented progress in the negotiations and the conclusion of agreements. commissioner, why did you break with this consistent line of the european union in the case of the free trade agreement with the united states? what concessions are you prepared to make to them? if you open up audiovisual services to negotiation, it is not for decorative purposes, it is not to put them on the table for us to look at. if you're opening this negotiation, you have something to negotiate. what do you have to negotiate, commissioner? will you liberalize and deregulate new services and accept new media? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of a transatlantic trade agreement is in itself quite positive, but it is far from certain that it will be mutually beneficial to both the european and american economies. i must express a strong reservation about the inclusion of defence and security procurement in the negotiating mandate, for three reasons. firstly, there is no precedent for the commission to conduct trade negotiations involving this highly sensitive area which refers to political and strategic considerations which are far beyond the commission's competence. the commission has not been able to establish the exact amount of the subsidy, but it is clear that the subsidy is not a direct result of the subsidy. secondly, as explicitly mentioned in the mandate, the 2009 european defence directive, the defence package, seeks to create a genuine european internal market and a european defence industrial and technological base. the implementation of this very recent directive, which has barely been transposed in most member states, is still incomplete and haphazard. this means that the european market is not sufficiently consolidated for its opening up, in a context of strong structural imbalance with the united states, to be of benefit to us. and finally, the obstacles to be removed in the specific field of defence are of a political, non-tariff nature and of such a magnitude that it is totally illusory to envisage that a trade negotiation will be able to remove the obstacles quickly and above all to benefit european industry. i understand that not excluding this defence sector is a negotiating tactic, but parliament's role, mr president, is not to venture into the tactics of a negotiation which it will not lead. the role of parliament ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the respect for the european cultural exception. for more than twenty years, europe has been engaged in a process of protecting and promoting culture and cultural heritage. in this context, audiovisual services enjoy a privileged status since they are not subject to the services directive for the simple reason that the european union does not consider culture as a commodity like the others. the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions has enshrined the specificity of cultural and audiovisual goods in the field of trade. it is because of this specificity that aid for the development of culture finances a significant proportion of the budgets devoted to film production in the union. with such a system, we promote all culture, we encourage all artists. liberalising culture would be tantamount to encouraging production that is not generative of cultural and creative heritage, but ephemeral and focused on the immediate.
in writing. i am in favour of a new trade agreement with the united states. that is why i support the launch of negotiations, but for the outcome to be positive for both sides, the eu must set its priorities and be aggressive, particularly in public procurement or agriculture. we must defend the quality of our products and our geographical indications, not accept a leveling-up from below. the audiovisual sector is an important issue, but we must not allow it to become a condition for the negotiations and to take the overall agreement hostage. finally, while the united states is considered to be a major partner for europe, other countries, emerging or, on the contrary, poor and lagging behind, also have a say in the matter. global trade must be in the service of sustainable development. a cooperative and multilateral mindset is preferable to a logic where westerners impose their law on others (or vice versa).
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, the alpine regions have a long-lasting tradition of cooperation with a number of networks and associations that are already in place. good experience has been gained in facilitating coexistence between modern cities and traditional countryside areas, and between innovative activities and traditional ones. any new strategy approaches would need to be complementary to the existing tools, include the relevant stakeholders at the different levels and learn from existing experience in and outside the alps. the european commission therefore wants to have an in-depth analysis and a political discussion about the evaluation report on macro-regional strategies, which will be available in june, before making further decisions. a clear european added value in concrete fields of action needs to be shown, and it should be demonstrated that the strategic approach of a macro-regional strategy is the most appropriate way to reach those goals. even before our evaluation of existing strategies is complete, one thing is very clear: territorial cooperation programmes like the alpine space programme can play a very useful coordination role, but no single programme will have the scope or the funds to make a reality of a whole macro-regional strategy. this means that the authorities will need to align funds other than cooperation funds: all european structural and investment funds (esif) could and should be used in the strategy. so where do we stand today? the last alpine regions meeting took place in milan on 22 february 2013. in that meeting, it was agreed to strive for an alpine macro-regional strategy to be taken up at the european council in december 2013. to this end the regions, together with national governments, will work out a short document d´interpellation in a joint editorial team. this document will build on existing contributions: the initiative paper of the regions, the expert report of the alpine space programme and the contribution of the alpine convention. it should also determine the major cornerstones of a potential macro-regional strategy for the alpine space. the french government, which had offered to coordinate the process, was asked to approach national governments at high political level and invite them to appoint a technical member to join the editorial team for collaboration. the document is due to be decided at a political conference in france in early autumn 2013. further cooperation between the alpine space countries is definitely desirable, in order to tackle the common challenges. to be successful, it needs local commitment as well as national support: a bottom-up approach implies positive ownership, while central government support ensures greater coherence of the initiatives. but stepping up cooperation in this way requires more than political commitment; it requires technical expertise, stable and adequately-qualified staffing and institutional support to deliver results and make a success of this kind of initiative.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, macro-regional strategies are a new tool for european cooperation between the territories of the same living area, in this case the beautiful alpine massif. as a member of the european parliament for the south-east of france, and therefore for the rhône-alpes and provence-alpes-côte d'azur regions, i think this could be an interesting project, with a few reservations. it should really involve the actors in the territories concerned, in particular local elected representatives and civil society actors. it is strictly limited to the territory of the alpine area and therefore does not benefit the large cities in the peripheral territories. so let it be centred on the territories that need it most. and we know that in mountain areas there is no shortage of them. the maintenance of tourism activities is a major issue here. local needs should not be overshadowed by large-scale crossborder infrastructure projects, particularly in the field of transport. the coherence of public services should be a priority, of course in education, employment and training, but also, for example, for new needs, such as access to the internet. it is a democratic and civic project that must be built. the citizens must not be forgotten by history, because without them there can be no social cohesion, no economic and social development.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is very good news: our parliament is calling for the development of a macro-regional strategy for the alps. this macroregion is a real and concrete expression of the new objective of the european union, territorial cohesion. europe is not just about directives on the economy or finance, or the size of chicken cages or tractor wheels. the european union is a 'living together', a union of peoples on a shared territory. for decades, mountain towns and villages, ski resorts and nature parks have been working together spontaneously across borders, day by day, to meet their common challenges. they expect europe to help them coordinate their efforts, on a massive scale, towards a strategy and an overall vision and thus to mobilise more funding. there are many opportunities for cooperation. how can natural resources be managed in the face of climate change? how can we prevent the melting of glaciers and the scarcity of snow? how can nature parks be protected? how can the potential of hydroelectricity be maximised? a macro-region does not mean a new extraterritorial institution. it aims to coordinate existing funding around specific priorities. europe can help and the transnational aspect of territorial cooperation will in future make it possible to support this type of cooperation across borders. unfortunately, the appropriations provided by the european council for the crossborder sector are 30% less than the commission's proposal. the border regions are the forgotten ones in the budget agreement, whether in terms of infrastructure, with the reduction of the appropriations for the interconnection mechanism, or in terms of cohesion policy, with a reduction in the appropriations for the cross-border regions. yet these border crossers represent 40% of european citizens. one detail, though. like my group, the epp, i strongly oppose paragraph 5 of the resolution, which arbitrarily limits the area of this macro-region. in conclusion, crossborder cooperation of this type is the very example of european integration in everyday life. i really hope that they will be followed by real efforts and real projects.
madam president, who was not shocked and disgusted by the 1,127 bodies of dhaka's textile workers lined up under a tarp? these images reminded us tragically of a military cemetery. in fact, these women did not die in an accident, but on the great battlefield of the economic war waged in the service of the big textile multinationals, for whom the textile industry was destroyed here in europe, to go to the over-exploitation of slaves in bangladesh and elsewhere, working 10 to 15 hours a day for less than 30 euros a month. and condolences here won't be enough. the trade policy of the european union is at stake, commissioner. the union must turn its back on the cult of enrichment of the big multinationals for the benefit of human beings. it must reform its trade policy by turning its back on the social and environmental at-least-so-called king that reigns today, and do so by relying on a new cooperation which would introduce visas for entry into europe taking into account the improvement of security, social progress, the increase in wages and the possibility for these bangladeshi workers to organise and defend themselves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 1 100 deaths - that is the macabre figure that has been waiting for international opinion to finally take an interest in the plight of the workers of bangladesh. it took the rana plaza disaster for europe to turn its attention to other figures, that of only 20 euros for a dress, a trendy jacket of this or that brand. ladies and gentlemen, how long will asian workers be exploited in conditions of modern slavery? the profits of multinational companies cannot continue to be built on the tragedies of some and the portfolios of others. the big brands, at the foot of the wall, say they have signed an agreement that should improve the working conditions of the workers. that's not enough. the european legislation must be changed to make the parent companies responsible for the undignified practices of their subcontractors. we shall be able to achieve two things in one go by avoiding any relocation of production to countries where working conditions are even harsher. we must strengthen, as has been said, and my colleagues have said, the right of trade unions, and enable all employees to live with dignity in their work. but let us not forget that in addition to corporate social responsibility there is also an ecological responsibility, which unfortunately has not been clearly indicated in this debate. so europe's watchword must be clear: no more losing our lives to gain them, anywhere in the world.
madam president, commissioner, like all my colleagues, i would first of all like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of the rana plaza, but also to those of the accidents which have occurred in recent days in cambodia. i said that in my speech in the debate in january and i repeat it today. companies, whether multinational or not, must take their share of responsibility here. it is true that after the accident on 24 april some of these companies signed a safety agreement. but it's still too little. not enough, because this project was launched last year and it took over a thousand deaths before it became a reality. too little, because it will apply to less than a third of bangladeshi companies. and too little, because it does not solve the lack of controls on the spot and the lack of sanctions. what is the solution? i believe that companies which take the path of social responsibility should be legally bound to honour their commitments. it is intolerable that the companies which communicate their good csr actions are the same ones which impose specifications on their subcontractors which prevent them from implementing them. moral constraint alone is not enough. we can see that. so we need to go to the next level and force companies to match their words with their actions. commissioner de gucht raised the possibility of suspending the preferences granted to bangladesh under the 'everything but arms' initiative. i don't want to clear the customs authorities, but i don't think that's the right solution. firstly, because these preferences are not very important in view of the volume of exports by bangladesh, so that they will not be of much concern to the authorities of the country. secondly, because we have recently granted exceptional preferences on textiles to pakistan and we will vote today in favour of re-introducing burma into the generalized system of preferences. so do you think, commissioner, that it is consistent to stigmatise bangladesh at a time when it is experiencing a combination of natural disasters, political instability and human tragedy?
mr president, we have so far been talking about animals who are very lucky. i congratulate dr schnellhardt for adapting this regulation to the constraints of today, given that, with intra-european trade, it is true that families travel much more often than before. i was talking about animals that are very lucky because in this animal welfare story, there are two weights, two measures. i should like to take this opportunity to speak about the problem of spain, which i believe is a european country. commissioner, every year 50,000 greyhounds are tortured in spain. they are abandoned, hanged, burned with acid, or dragged behind cars, all because their owners deem them useless for hunting. this situation is intolerable. while these greyhounds, as companion dogs, should be given adequate protection in accordance with animal welfare rules, many european associations do not understand why we are not taking action. commissioner, you have the power to put an end to this barbarity, and yet... i have tabled, together with my colleagues mr louis michel, mr fisas ayxela, mr jørgensen, mr romeva i rueda, mrs pietikäinen and others, written statement no 06 on the immediate cessation of this torture of greyhounds. thousands of citizens are pointing fingers at us right now on all social media and waiting for our reaction or rather your reaction. commissioner, i will fight this battle to the end so that european rules are respected in all the member states. the european commission is the guardian of the treaties and must enforce european texts on animal welfare. commissioner, i hope i can count on you now!
mr president, it is not my custom to speak, but today i have a question for our socialist friends. the election campaign in bulgaria is over. the results are in. today, a government could be born. in the search for a majority, the bulgarian socialists do not exclude official or unofficial support for ataka. that is what mr swoboda said yesterday, when he said 'i am ready to swallow this bitter pill'. so i would like to ask the socialist party: would you be a hostage to stanichev, the chairman of the bulgarian socialist party, and the chairman of the european socialist party? why take a bitter pill with the extremes, a nationalist and xenophobic party, which violently rejects the european destiny of bulgaria, whose leader sees foreign investors, european ambassadors, as colonists who must be expelled? i simply ask you: is not even tacit support through procedural games in parliament likely to compromise such a government, particularly in relation to europe? would there be two weights two measures? and you're scolding some governments for letting you do this or that. but i also trust in the democracy of the socialist party to defend europe, and that is the question i am asking you. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, up to now i have naively believed that european values were respect for pluralism, the contradiction of opinions and the will of the electorate. i realize that this is the censorship that is wanted by the currents that claim to have a monopoly of political correctness with regard to their challenger. that does not seem to me to be in keeping with democracy. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the customs union plays a fundamental role in the functioning of the single market, which can only function properly through the common and consistent application of common and modern customs rules and procedures. that is why, in view of the evolution of customs and related legislation, it was necessary to propose a revision of the union customs code, in particular to align the regulation with the procedural requirements arising from the treaty of lisbon. in view of these facts, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text providing for the revision of the customs code, which will be aligned with the provisions of the new lisbon treaty. in order to function properly, the single market needs to be regulated by common and modern customs arrangements. customs activity remains essential in the eu, as nearly 20% of all world imports pass through european customs, or two billion tonnes of goods a year. customs authorities have to process over 200 million customs declarations every year. it was therefore important to simplify the administrative system while maintaining our obligations to protect consumers and to fight fraud.
in writing. in order to give parliament and the council the time needed to consider the revision of the community customs code, i voted in favour of the text postponing the date of application of the regulation establishing the community customs code to 1 november 2013.
in writing. on thursday i voted in favour of amending the date of application of the draft community customs code, which i am responsible for as rapporteur. the entry into force of the modernised customs code, which was due to take effect on 24 june 2013, should be postponed to 1 november 2013. we will thus have the time to propose a satisfactory revision of the customs code which responds to the present challenges. the report aims to address the shortcomings of the first version of the revised customs code, which was published in 2003 and which was never taken into account by the member states. the revision of this text is, however, a major challenge, since the original text was published in 1992 and must be adapted to the new realities of the european union.
in writing. this report proposes to postpone the date of application of the modernised eu customs code by five months. i'm fine with this postponement. i do, however, dispute the limited grounds for which it is envisaged here to postpone that date. this postponement should be an opportunity to reformulate the customs policy of the european union. i propose that we discuss the need for european solidarity protectionism, which the new proposed code is seriously undermining. at a time when a growing proportion of the population is unemployed or precarious, it is criminal to set up a customs code which is intended solely to facilitate free trade and to take away the control powers of the member states. a broad debate on the union's customs policy must be initiated with the citizens. five months is a little short to do this, but if the union really had the means, it would certainly be possible.
in writing. following repeated human rights violations, burma has not been granted preferential rights under the eu's generalised system of preferences since 1997. noting its steady progress, the european commission has proposed to re-allocate these preferences to the country, provided that it continues to make progress. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it is a good political signal and a relevant practical application of the 'more for more' rule which has governed the european union's external action for the past two years. i will, however, remain vigilant about the strict application of this principle: if further violations are found, i will call on the european commission to reopen a procedure for suspending preferences.
in writing. in 1997, the gsp tariff preferences for burma were temporarily withdrawn because of forced labour practices - a situation that was subsequently confirmed by the international labour organisation. in view of the improvements in the conditions of workers, the re-establishment of the generalised tariff preferences should enable burma to accelerate its economic growth and increase its exports. however, the country needs to undergo profound reforms. in view of these facts, i have voted in favour of the martin report.
in writing. the eu had withdrawn the benefit of the tariff preferences granted to myanmar in 1997 because of the systematic and widespread use of forced labour in the country. the country has since made great progress in this area, international restrictions have been lifted, so it was up to the eu to recognise the path taken towards the democratization of the country. i therefore voted in favour of restoring the tariff preferences for myanmar, including the introduction of the 'everything but arms' initiative in the country. i found the report balanced, acknowledging the significant progress the country has made, while pointing out the remaining difficulties in implementing these efforts.
in writing. i fully support the repeal of the 1997 regulation temporarily withdrawing the benefit of the generalised tariff preferences from burma. the regulation was adopted following the finding of the systematic and widespread nature of forced labour practices in that country. the international labour conference (ilo) last year recognised that significant progress had been made in this area. although limited, progress has also been made in democratization, so much so that a review of eu/burma trade relations was fully justified. i remain, however, vigilant about the development of respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in this country.
in writing. we are witnessing great changes in burma and it is our duty to accompany the country on the path of openness and democratization. it still has a long way to go, but i am hopeful that the european union can help the country to make a just transition that will benefit the burmese people. the re-establishment of the generalised tariff preferences will be an important tool towards achieving this objective, as it will facilitate trade between burma and the european union, in particular by ensuring better access to the union market. it is an unlikely tool for myanmar's growth, and thus for the well-being of its people and the creation of new jobs. but we must remain vigilant about the situation, particularly with regard to the very worrying issue of child labour.
in writing. the introduction of the generalised system of preferences is a relevant initiative to help developing countries. first, it allows them to reduce poverty by generating income through international trade through tariff preferences applied to products they export to the european union. since burma now appears to respect the fundamental rights of workers, it seems essential to support this text with a view to restoring this system of tariff preferences so that the european union can contribute to the economic and social development of this partner.
in writing. as a member of the droi subcommittee, i voted against this text because the democratic transition process underway in burma remains fragmented and fragile. despite the undeniable progress in democratization, it seems to me risky to write a blank check to the burmese leaders who have not yet released all the prisoners and who impose various restrictions on those who have been released (deprivation of passports, etc.). in addition, the burmese authorities still refuse to grant burmese citizenship to the rohingya, the most discriminated minority in the world, stateless, deprived of most of the rights granted to the other 135 ethnic groups (citizenship act, 1982). according to some observers, humanitarian aid is being denied access to rohingya camps in rakhine state. ngos do not hesitate to accuse the authorities of complicity in ethnic cleansing and denounce the practices of the nasaka, the border police, which acts with impunity. for example, dr. tun aung, a respected figure in the rohingya community, has been imprisoned since june 11, 2012, during inter-communal violence in maungdaw. he is now being held in solitary confinement, unable to receive visitors or make a telephone call.
in writing. i supported the report calling for the re-establishment of the benefit of the generalized tariff preferences in myanmar. this policy of the european union aims to contribute to the development of developing and poor countries by offering them preferential access to our internal market. in practice, countries benefiting from this measure pay less customs duty on all or part of the goods they sell to the union. however, as was the case for myanmar in 1997, the union may decide to terminate this preferential treatment in the event of serious and repeated violations of the fundamental principles laid down in international conventions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. however, we remain vigilant about the progress of these reforms and their actual implementation, as the political situation remains fragile.
in writing. this report proposes to re-establish the system of generalised tariff preferences with burma. it is based on the few advances, largely cosmetic, made by the burmese regime in the field of human rights. the double standard imposed on cuba, where no ethnic extermination is taking place, where the shameless exploitation of workers is not a law, and where children are educated and not conscripted into the army, is blatant. free trade and energy resources are not worth more to me than the lives of my fellow men. i therefore vote against this report and denounce it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which follows the european commission's proposal for a regulation to return myanmar to the generalised system of preferences (gsp) after many reforms have been put in place following the opening up of the burmese regime. the granting of the gsp is primarily a measure to encourage the continuation of the transition process so that the burmese people can benefit from the political reforms under way.
in writing. the european union is now considering restoring the benefit of the generalised tariff preferences to burma, which were abolished in 1997 because of forced labour in the country. i think it is unacceptable to lift the sanctions against burma when there is a real massacre of the muslim minorities. instead of reminding burma of its commitment to its core values, the european union is only encouraging, through its silence and therefore its tacit approval, this ethnic cleansing of the muslim minorities. i believe that the union must be uncompromising in respecting human rights and that it is imperative that it shows consistency between the values it defends and the trade agreements it concludes with third countries. i therefore want sanctions to be imposed on burma, and i shall therefore vote against this report.
in writing. suspending economic benefits to encourage a state to follow the path of democracy is a common practice and often successful. burma is a good example of this. the european union had chosen to temporarily suspend the benefit of generalised preferences against it in 1997 because of the widespread practices of forced labour. it is clear that this tactic has borne fruit: democratization is underway in myanmar, although efforts are still needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. this is especially so as the measure will promote myanmar's exports in the textile sector. we know from experience that economic development is conducive to democratic progress.
in writing. following repeated human rights violations, burma has not been granted preferential rights under the eu's generalised system of preferences since 1997. noting its steady progress, the european commission has proposed to re-allocate these preferences to the country, provided that it continues to make progress. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it is a good political signal and a relevant practical application of the 'more for more' rule which has governed the european union's external action for the past two years. i will, however, remain vigilant about the strict application of this principle: if further violations are found, i will call on the european commission to reopen a procedure for suspending preferences.
in writing. the report supports the reinstatement of trade preferences for developing countries in burma. the country has been ruled by a military junta since 1962 and is one of the most repressive regimes in the world. however, it was not until 1997 that the european union decided to abolish its preferences. the european commission considers that the legal conditions are now in place for these preferences to be reinstated. despite some democratic openings that allowed aung san suu kyi and some of her friends to enter the burmese parliament, this is doubtful. human rights remain largely violated in the country as evidenced by the persecution of minorities, particularly the rohingya, and the persistence of forced labour; the reality is that the eu and its member states want to regain access to the country's resources without neglecting the geopolitical aspect of china's strategic position as a major neighbour. i therefore voted against this report and the parallel resolution on tariff preferences.
in writing. the proposal on investor-state dispute settlement specifies who would bear the financial responsibility when compensation is due: the financial responsibility for the cost of settling the investor-state dispute and the right to defend a case are shared between the eu and the member states according to whose actions led the investor to file a claim. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the eu now has competence to conclude investment agreements. although no agreement has been reached at present, discussions with canada provide for the possibility for an investor to lodge a claim against a state. i voted in favour of this report because it clarifies the responsibilities of the member states and the eu in terms of financial responsibility when compensation is due. a mechanism will be put in place whereby the financial responsibility for the costs of settling the dispute will be borne by the party whose actions prompted the investor to file a claim.
in writing. this text is an essential element in the construction of a genuine common european trade policy, as it provides a clear framework for dealing with the issues of financial responsibility arising from the settlement of disputes between investors and states. the stability and predictability of the legal framework in this area are crucial. that is why i support this text, because it will provide the security needed to make international investments, which are essential drivers of growth in europe and the world.
in writing. in view of the increasing number of foreign direct investments and their importance for economic growth in europe, i felt it was essential to vote in favour of this text, which provides the legal clarification needed for the effective and fair settlement of disputes between investors and member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework on financial liability in relation to investor-state dispute settlement tribunals established by international agreements to which the european union is a party. in the context of foreign direct investment, which has been the union's competence since the lisbon treaty, disputes may arise when a state fails to comply with the agreement and financial sanctions may result. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to establish a legal framework at european union level to define, in the event of a dispute between two states, when responsibility falls on a member state on the one hand or on the european union on the other, by virtue of the law it imposes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the non-commercial movement of pet animals, which aims to facilitate the movement of pet owners with their animals and to maintain a high level of public and animal health.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to facilitate the transport of pet animals in europe while ensuring a high level of protection of public and animal health. a key point in this report is the possibility for the commission to take action in the event of a resurgence of rabies, which is currently eradicated in europe, in order to protect the health of european citizens.
in writing. non-commercial movements of pet animals have been hampered by an inadequate transitional regime. after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it was necessary to amend this system by improving the procedures for identifying animals and making the regulations more readable for veterinarians, owners and authorities. the report also calls for the introduction of a european animal health code, which would make it easier to travel with a pet while still complying with the health requirements.
in writing. the movement of pets was regulated in 1983; it was adopted at a time when the european union was embarking on a campaign against rabies. as the disease was not completely eradicated, a special transitory regime for the movement of pets was necessary. but the rage is no longer a threat. that is why i have voted in favour of this text, which seeks to bring the existing legislation into line with the present situation. it is therefore appropriate to facilitate the movement of pet owners and their animals, while maintaining a high level of public and animal health.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new legislation proposed by the council on the non-commercial movement of pet animals. we are adopting this text in order to simplify travel for users with pets while ensuring the safety of people through reliable health standards. in particular, the new legislation will impose rules on the identification and proof of vaccination of animals. these new rules for simplification and security are essential, given that one in four european households lives with a pet at home.
in writing. the changes introduced by the proposal for a directive amending directive 92/65/eec on animal health conditions governing trade in and imports into the union of dogs, cats and ferrets are mainly technical changes on which consensus has been reached. that is why i voted in favour of the report amending directive 92/65/eec on the health conditions governing trade in such products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to facilitate the transport of pet animals in europe while ensuring a high level of protection of public and animal health. the main measure of this report is that veterinary checks on the health of the animal will be strengthened.
in writing. this text introduces technical amendments to ensure better protection of cats, dogs and ferrets during transport and details the procedures for clinical examination of these animals before shipment. the text will make it easier to transport your pet on the move, thanks to clearer, more accessible and easier to implement regulations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on animal health conditions governing trade in dogs, cats and ferrets. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the same rules to the transport and exchange of such animals. in particular, the draft proposes to extend the time limit for the health examination to 48 hours before the animal is transported, instead of 24 hours as is the case at present.
in writing. i voted in favour of changing the rules governing trade in and imports of domestic animals (dogs, cats, ferrets) into the european union because the new rules applying are more protective of animal welfare, simplify travel procedures for owners and respect the most basic health rules.
in writing. traveling with your pet across the eu is now relatively complicated, with owners facing administrative hassles. in europe, however, one in four households has a pet - including 64 million cats and 66 million dogs. it is therefore important to simplify the existing rules. that is the aim of this text, and i support it. currently, owners can only travel with more than five animals at a time - to prevent abuse for commercial purposes. now, an exemption is possible if the owners prove their participation in a competition, a fair, a sporting event or a festive occasion. another example: at present owners must ensure that their animals have been properly vaccinated against rabies. under the new rules, young animals aged 12 to 16 weeks who have been vaccinated but not yet immunised will be allowed to travel. in addition, the new legislation provides for clearer rules on pet passports and rabies vaccination. these amendments, when they come into force, will make it easier for citizens to travel across europe with their pets, and i welcome their adoption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the pet-related resolutions, even though one might ask once again what the eu is getting into. these two reports make it easier for pet owners to move pets, with the same rules in all member states, so it is rather a good thing for both animal welfare and public health reasons. the european union now has 72 million domestic animals and their movements are increasing. it is therefore necessary to ensure that these are supervised so that they take place in decent conditions and that the medical checks on the animals correspond to the recommendations of the world organisation for animal health. studies on animal welfare in commercial practices will also be carried out, as it is clear that animals cannot be treated as commodities. these two resolutions are therefore rather common sense texts, adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. economic integration brings efficiency and stability to all the economies of the member states making up the european union. given the efforts made by the commission for macroeconomic governance and the need to reform economic policies at the level of the european union and to coordinate the economic reform policies undertaken by national governments, i have spoken in favour of future legislative proposals for economic and monetary union.
in writing. i voted in favour of these proposals, which support the commission's work on the coordination of the economic policies of the member states. an incentive mechanism to strengthen solidarity, cohesion and competitiveness must go hand in hand with the adoption of new economic discipline measures. the commission has done a great deal in the field of competitiveness; the commission has now to include the tax evasion dimension, and social and employment issues.
in writing. in economic governance, priority must be given to implementing what has already been decided: i am talking here about the six pack, the two pack, and the whole framework that has already been set. the most important thing is to ensure that the important and rapid developments we are implementing are given the democratic oversight they deserve. the commission must broaden its view of competitiveness, to take account in particular of tax evasion issues, and recognize the european parliament's rightful place in the legislative process.
in writing. i supported the resolution in response to the commission's communications on economic and monetary union. in this text we reiterate our concerns: in particular, we must strengthen democratic control over the proposed tools. as it stands, decision-making processes are largely outside parliamentary control. secondly, the proposals made focus on competitiveness, minimising the risks of fraud and tax evasion, employment or social issues. since the outbreak of the economic and social crisis, many economic governance instruments have been put in place: we must ensure that they are fully implemented before we want to add new tools.
in writing. this text, which i voted in favour of, calls on the european commission to ensure full implementation of economic governance measures and to involve meps in transfers of sovereignty. the financial crisis has exposed fundamental weaknesses in the economic governance of the european union and the responses to this have been adopted in a hurry, without the involvement of the european parliament. the text is therefore in the right direction, but it is necessary to recall that the european parliament wants the commission's next initiatives in this area not to be limited to mere rigour but to be geared towards a strengthening of solidarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's motion for a resolution on the future legislative proposals on economic and monetary union (emu). i support the reform of european economic governance, which aims in particular to improve cohesion and solidarity between the economic policies of the member states. the coordination of member states' reform programmes should make europe more competitive and more coherent. we also want to introduce democratic principles into the management of emu, such as strengthening the role of national parliaments and introducing democratic principles for decision-making.
in writing. this report endorses the fact that member states and/or the european union should bear the costs of arbitration when a foreign investor denounces a state or the eu, whatever the reason for the complaint. it even insists that if a european rule is not respected, the governments must bear the full costs. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union (the 'european investment bank') is based on the principle of the protection of the financial interests of the union by the european investment bank (eib) and the european investment bank (eib). it therefore supports the jurisdiction of the international centre for the settlement of investment disputes, the icsid, which it claims to have. this body is the proven tool for legitimizing the interests of multinational corporations against the sovereignty of states. i will never allow the interests of investors to be put before the interests of the people. legal stability for investors is only meaningful if it is not contrary to the public interest. i am voting against this text which advocates the opposite.
in writing. the tragic conflict in syria is already an indelible historical task, and we must grasp all its horrors. in addition to the endless list of mourners that continues to grow week by week, the syrians have no choice but to go into exile in an attempt to preserve their lives. at this level, the international community and the european union must mobilize and unconditionally engage in the great humanitarian struggle. it's the least we can do. the european union has valuable expertise in this area. the action of the european union in this area is welcome and it is therefore appropriate to continue our efforts to alleviate the terrible suffering of the syrian people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which expresses the european union's deep concern at the crisis currently affecting syria and its repercussions on neighbouring states. beyond the political and humanitarian crisis in the country, the flight of syrians is weakening the entire region. with this vote, we have sent a strong message of support to the oppressed syrian people and called on the international community to redouble its efforts to provide a humanitarian response to the refugee crisis, including food, water and medicine.
in writing. europe must urgently mobilise to support the syrian people in their dramatic ordeal. the conflict poses a very significant risk of destabilising the region, and the flow of refugees to neighbouring countries places a heavy burden on the host countries. it is our moral duty to seek a swift solution to the conflict and to support those countries that are providing assistance to the syrian people. the text calls for major actions to mark the commitment of the entire international community.
in writing. after two years of civil war in syria, the international community faces a very serious humanitarian emergency that it is struggling to respond to. there are now 1.5 million refugees and the number is increasing every day, making it increasingly difficult for neighbouring countries to take them in. the unhcr now says it is unable to meet the needs and the breaking point has been reached, as the commission, the main donor, has just pointed out, having recently agreed to an additional €65 million in aid. without political action, the international community will not be able to contain the flow of refugees into neighbouring countries, which threatens the stability of the region. it is imperative that the eu and its member states act in two directions today. on the humanitarian front, the eu must step up its solidarity efforts and accept more syrian refugees. on the political front, we must support the current attempts to find a political and diplomatic solution to the conflict and affirm our firm support for the syrian opposition in order to shift the balance of power. the opposition forces will have to be legitimate in the eyes of all syrians to gain power.
we will continue to support the syrian people. after more than two years of conflict, tens of thousands of deaths and nearly two million refugees, the international community has still not succeeded in silencing the weapons. in order to ensure that the syrian situation does not fall into oblivion, i voted in favour of this resolution, which i was a co-signer of, calling for respect for human rights and humanitarian law in syria. as is always the case in conflicts around the world, the answer is not one. the european parliament reaffirmed the need for political and humanitarian action, and reminded the member states that these two actions were absolutely inseparable from ending the violence in that country.
in writing. parliament raised a new alarm on thursday over the situation of syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. in the face of a humanitarian situation that is deteriorating day by day, the european union must further strengthen its political, financial and logistical commitment in the region. we have, among other things, urged the european commission to present a comprehensive aid package, including increased humanitarian aid and the capacity and infrastructure of the host countries. the european union and in particular the european external action service must also facilitate a syrian-led political process. beyond action in the region, member states must also fully assume their responsibilities towards syrian refugees arriving on european territory. as parliament prepares to vote on the 'asylum package' soon, the european union could hardly justify the lottery of asylum to which syrian asylum seekers are still too often subjected.
in writing. i voted for the parliament's resolution on the situation of syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. the influx of refugees into the countries bordering syria is a major issue as reception capacities are being significantly reduced and human rights violations threaten the integrity of people. we therefore call for the opening of a humanitarian corridor to help the affected populations and to contain the spread of the conflict beyond the syrian borders. at the same time, parliament advocates a long-term solution by supporting a political process to resolve the conflict with the support of the international community.
in writing. in the last 24 months, the situation of the syrians has become unsustainable. according to some ngos, more than 94,000 people have already been killed in the conflict, while the number of wounded and refugees continues to rise. i voted in favour of this text, which recalls the importance of a political solution to the conflict and the urgency of ending the armed conflict and respecting human rights and humanitarian law in syria. the european union must act to prevent this civil war from spreading to neighbouring countries, in particular by helping these countries to manage the influx of refugees.
in writing. the fall of dictators in the arab spring countries has led to the freezing of their assets by the united nations in foreign countries. i voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to provide for a mechanism to recover stolen assets belonging to these countries. it is difficult to assess and trace these hidden assets, but it is even more difficult to ensure that these assets are returned to the country that is the rightful owner. in france, a large-scale campaign on "badly acquired assets" has been launched in recent years to uncover the hidden assets of foreign leaders. for example, the former tunisian president ben ali recently had nearly 12,000 properties confiscated, scattered throughout his country and across europe, including france. the important thing is to ensure that the money raised by the auction goes back to the coffers of the tunisian state to help with its reconstruction.
in writing. the recovery of assets frozen in the context of the arab spring uprisings must not become a brake on the recovery of these countries, and it should be ensured that it takes place in the most efficient and fairest possible way. the text therefore calls for a set of measures to reduce the complexity and length of recovery procedures, which can vary enormously from one country to another. the eu should encourage initiatives to improve transparency and pooling of efforts, which would allow us to actively show our support for the stabilisation of this region.
in writing. although i welcome the adoption of this resolution on asset repatriation, which calls for greater coordination between the arab spring countries, the european union and key international actors such as the world bank, which is mainly through the exchange of expertise and information on legal matters. i regret, however, that the amendments tabled by the greens/efa group in the negotiations with the other political groups were not included in the final compromise text because they asked the european external action service and the member states to temporarily suspend the repayment of the debt of these countries until an audit has been carried out to determine the illegitimate and odious part of it. in the face of an impatient population, these transitional governments, still very fragile politically and economically, must be able to count on the full support of europe. we must help them to repatriate these funds which have been misappropriated and finally return them to a population which is waiting for us to take concrete action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for the arab spring countries in transition to recover assets. following the fall of several dictatorial regimes in north africa, including egypt, libya and tunisia, the european union froze the assets of the dictators, their families and those associated with these regimes. as these assets represent a significant economic asset, the return of these assets to the people and new governments of the arab spring should help the economic reconstruction of these still fragile states. this measure also has a strong symbolic aspect.
in writing. this resolution calls for the return of assets stolen by former leaders to countries that have gone through civil revolutions. the european right and the social democrats who have been so close to dictators are finally waking up. that's good. but the text ignores the root causes of the economic, social and political difficulties in the maghreb, mashrek and the middle east. he is silent on the eu's responsibility for these difficulties. it says nothing about the need to combat the debt which maintains the domination of finance over these states. he says not a word about the repression that is going on in some states. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. following the arab revolutions, the eu swiftly froze the assets of former dictators, their families and many people linked to these regimes, notably in egypt, tunisia and libya. it is important to clarify that while the freezing of assets is a matter for the union, the recovery and repatriation of such assets is a matter for the member states. the procedure for the recovery of assets is therefore complex and time-consuming. i supported this resolution for two reasons: firstly, the union must play a leading and coordinating role in the recovery procedure. new efforts are needed to facilitate restitution and member states need to work in close cooperation with the national authorities of the arab spring countries. these efforts will strengthen mutual trust between states and deepen relations with the societies of the region. secondly, because these assets, once recovered, will contribute to the success of the democratic transitions in the countries concerned. the success of these procedures will also determine the success of the establishment of strong and fair democracies.
in writing. i voted for this resolution calling for facilitating the recovery of assets looted by the former dictators of the arab revolutions from their peoples and frozen by eu member states in early 2011. the resolution, which is weak in relation to the issues at stake, does not acknowledge the responsibility of the eu and its member states for supporting these dictators until their fall. i regret that the amendments which i had tabled with my colleague willy meyer on behalf of the gue/ngl, in particular the requirement for an audit of the debt of these countries in order to extract the odious debt which benefited the dictators and their relatives, have all been rejected. however, the rapid return of these assets, which amount to millions or even billions of euros, even if it is a small amount, is absolutely imperative for tunisia, libya and egypt, which desperately need them to meet the social demands of their populations. it is also necessary that the member states provide themselves with the means, including judicial means, to release these assets and that the imf, the ecb and the eu do not impose on these countries structural reforms in parallel similar to those they are implementing in southern europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which states that bosnia and herzegovina is making progress in the stabilisation and association process with the eu. we deplore its lagging behind other countries in the region, in particular because of the lack of a clear vision on the part of the political leaders. we call on the country to implement major constitutional reforms, to empower women and young people, to guarantee the right of citizens to stand for election, to fight corruption and, above all, to better prepare for croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. since 2003, bosnia and herzegovina has been a potential candidate for membership of the european union. it is far behind other countries in the balkan region such as croatia, whose accession is imminent. this follow-up report, which i supported, lists the various reforms which bosnia and herzegovina must necessarily carry out if it is to achieve candidate status for accession. bosnia and herzegovina, for example, still has to undertake major constitutional revisions, resolve differences between its politicians of different ethnic backgrounds and make many other efforts, including in the area of food security.
in writing. i supported the 2012 monitoring report on bosnia and herzegovina, which is part of the country's move towards the convergence criteria for eu candidates. the report notes that bosnia and herzegovina is still lagging behind its neighbours in the former yugoslavia. parliament stressed the urgency of certain constitutional reforms, which are necessary for the establishment of a genuine democracy. in particular, we call on the bosnian state to implement the judgment of the european court of human rights on equal access for all citizens, men and women, to the competition for political and administrative mandates.
in writing. this report contains a number of concerns about respect for human rights which i share. i do not, however, agree with the authoritarian tone in which the authors here allow themselves to lecture a sovereign state. i also totally disagree with the calls for austerity and respect for the wto rules and the liberal dogmas imposed by the imf that are contained in this text. i vote against it out of respect for the citizens of bosnia-herzegovina.
in writing. the 2012 monitoring report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia highlights several important points. it stressed the progress made in more than 75% of the defined areas of action, in particular the decentralisation programme, and the efforts made to design a multiethnic society. however, it was also important to note that tensions had re-emerged in interethnic relations. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which calls in particular for further analytical efforts to start negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which envisages the opening of accession negotiations as early as july this year. these negotiations will be a factor of change from the current status quo, which will give a positive impetus to future reforms and improve relations with neighbouring countries, in particular kosovo and serbia.
in writing. since 2005, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been an official candidate for membership of the european union. having made many efforts to comply with the copenhagen criteria, the accession of this state to the european union would merit serious consideration. this follow-up report, which i voted in favour of, provides for the opening of accession negotiations before july 2013, provided that the country changes its name, as greece wishes.
in writing. i voted for the 2012 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on its eu candidacy. in view of the efforts made by the government of macedonia, parliament decided to support the applicant state by calling for the opening of accession negotiations with the union. we believe that the start of this process will give a new impetus to reforms, which will be beneficial to the development of the country and to respect for human rights. however, this is only the first step in a long series of reforms that are still needed if the country is to be able to apply for membership one day.
in writing. the report considers that the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) in the transition to a market economy is more important for opening accession negotiations with the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia than the existence of bilateral disputes with a member state of the european union. it expressly calls for the transition to a market economy to be irreversible. he's calling for austerity. all the good sentiments expressed elsewhere in the text are not worth the weight of this denial of the sovereignty of the peoples. i vote against it.
in writing. in consultation with my colleagues from modem, i abstained on this resolution expressing parliament's position on the proposed negotiation of a free trade agreement between the union and the united states. i am skeptical about this agreement, both in substance and in form, to say the least. my abstention is to acknowledge that negotiations are about to be opened on this subject, and we cannot deny that they are taking place. but the agreement is already questionable. let's stop trying to make people happy against their will. this agreement will be at the heart of the debate in the next european elections. in substance, we should be sure that the european commission, which has a mandate to negotiate, will defend our european model. in addition to the question of the cultural exception in parliament's text, the agreement should provide for the preservation of our agricultural model and environmental standards. it should explicitly exclude eu gmo legislation from its scope, just as it should not call into question the application of the precautionary principle. in form, it is a transversal agreement which potentially affects everyone. the ep is therefore entitled to demand the highest level of transparency.
in writing. a free trade agreement with the united states would allow an annual increase of 0.5% in gdp for the eu within 15 years. although an agreement with the united states is beneficial to the european economy, there are still sensitive sectors which deserve our full attention, starting with culture. i have spoken in favour of excluding cultural and audiovisual content services from the negotiating mandate, in order to protect and maintain a film and audiovisual industry in europe. in view of these factors, i have voted in favour of the final vote. it is now up to the council to vote on a balanced negotiating mandate.
in writing. the liberalisation of world trade is one of the keys to growth only if the conditions of competition are equal. it is in this spirit that we have been campaigning for agriculture, defence and culture to be given specific treatment in the new draft eu-us agreement. we therefore demand the complete opening of the american markets to all our products which are currently prohibited by federal or regional legislation, the application to american products of the health rules we impose on our producers and strict respect for our designations of origin. under these conditions, our producers will be able to benefit fully from the opening up of trade, while preserving the food security of europeans. the eu-us agreement can be beneficial for european economies. but for this europe must not hesitate to set its own conditions. meps have taken up their responsibilities to defend french and european interests, and we expect the government to have the courage to do the same in the council. social, health and environmental harmonisation must always come from the top. this is an imperative for europeans, and it is the major contribution europe can make to a balanced globalisation.
in writing. i support this resolution adopted by the european parliament on the mandate of the european commission for the negotiations on the transatlantic agreement with the united states. it is essential that such an agreement be concluded, given the economic challenges it poses, both in terms of exports and in terms of jobs. i welcome the exclusion of cultural and audiovisual services from the agreement, but i deeply regret the inclusion of defence procurement.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. while i welcome the exclusion of the audiovisual sector from the negotiations, i can only express concern at the mandate given today by the european parliament to the european executive to negotiate the eu/us free trade agreements, which are a real american takeover bid on the european union. from health and environmental regulations to the protection of personal data, public services, defence, gmos, etc., it is clear that we do not have the same requirements as the americans. and unlike the french right, which supported this resolution, i am not prepared to sacrifice the european project on the altar of free trade! moreover, with the maintenance of intellectual property rights in the negotiating mandate, netizens may fear a new acta. more generally, i think that commissioner de gucht and president barroso are launching a forced market negotiation one year after the end of the european commission's mandate.
in writing. the european parliament is sending a clear signal to the leaders on both sides of the atlantic today: yes, we want an ambitious and comprehensive agreement with the united states, but we refuse to broaden europeans' expectations in matters such as culture. the european parliament has the power to say no: the heads of state and government and the commission therefore have every interest in taking the result of this vote into account. the broad consensus on the protection of the cultural exception shows that the europeans will not compromise and that their expectations are clear. i will remain involved throughout the negotiations to ensure that all our expectations are taken into account, in particular to preserve the quality of european agriculture and products, to engage in better cooperation in the field of energy and more effective regulatory coordination.
in writing. as the eu prepares to negotiate an ambitious free trade agreement with the us, it is essential that the union is vigilant and firm in defending the interests of europeans vis-à-vis the americans, who will not fail to do so in turn. for it to remain a growth opportunity for both our economies, it is imperative that the future transatlantic partnership does not weaken european standards or call into question the european model of society. in addition to the audiovisual and cultural exceptions, which we are asking to be excluded from the negotiating mandate, the agreement must preserve our agriculture and in particular exclude gmos and cloning from the agreement, as well as our health and environmental rules. finally, as regards the form, the transatlantic negotiations will have to be conducted with the greatest possible transparency if the european commission does not want to repeat the failure of the acta agreement on counterfeiting which our european parliament rejected. obviously, the us congress will play an influential role in these negotiations to defend the interests of its country in a strong and offensive way. the european democracies, the european parliament and national parliaments, must therefore also address this issue and be involved at all stages of the negotiation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which approves the negotiating mandate given to the european commission for the free trade agreement between the union and the united states on trade and investment. this agreement will have extremely positive consequences for the european economy and for political and economic relations with the united states. however, this agreement must not be achieved at any cost! because of their characteristics, certain sectors cannot be the subject of a free trade policy with the united states. that is why i voted to exclude the audiovisual and film services and defence from the scope of this agreement. i actually co-signed an amendment to exclude the defense.
in writing. the transatlantic agreement does not call for urgency or absolute necessity. except perhaps for mr barroso's hopes of a reward that would be in the sights of the secretariat-general of nato or the un. the issue in this agreement is the submission of europe, the maintenance of us global leadership against china and the primacy of trade law over all others. the united states, like the commission, is calling for a comprehensive negotiation, without exclusion a priori. everything will be negotiable, especially on the european side, starting with the precautionary principles and the protection of personal data, our standards, including food and health standards, our power to legislate, whether there is a mechanism for settling investor/state disputes allowing multinationals to challenge our laws, our public procurement and public services and even our cultural exception. on the american side, the government cannot commit itself to the federal states on many points. the deal will be unbalanced, to our detriment. the european citizens must take up the matter and we will help them to do so. if there are negotiations, this agreement must become a "dracula" agreement, which, like him, is dying to be exposed. he will die in the indignation of the people and their revolt against the dictatorship of the so-called elite.
in writing. i voted against this resolution which calls for the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with the united states. the transatlantic negotiations are aimed at creating one of the largest free trade areas in the world. customs tariffs between the two blocs are already very low, however. so the issue is not that. given the potentially hegemonic nature of this agreement, the real issue is our development model. these negotiations are a danger to multilateralism. the wto negotiations are deadlocked. transatlantic trade already accounts for one third of world trade. this strategy of bilateral agreement is therefore a response to multilateral blockages. and there is a strong chance that the outcome of the negotiations will affect the entire international community and set a new standard. negotiations are not democratic. the european parliament has nothing to say, it can only approve or reject the agreement. and the states give the european commission a mandate, without interfering afterwards. of course, civil society will not be involved.
in writing. i did not vote for this resolution, preferring to abstain rather than give the commission a blank cheque on a matter of such importance for our continent. if the united states is a historic and leading partner with whom we must have close ties, we must not sell our european model, and in particular our agricultural and cultural model, in the name of hypothetical growth points promised by the european commission. europe is in a deep economic crisis, but it is a mistake to think that the united states alone will help us to get out of the rut. it is up to europeans, together, to find the tools to do so. then it will be time to negotiate with the united states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this trade and investment agreement between the european union and the united states. this free trade agreement is expected to benefit many french and european industrial sectors. i am thinking in particular of the aviation industry or the agri-food industry, with, for example, the export of our wines to the american market. but the european union must, among other things, ensure that it does not compromise its high food standards. these strict criteria which guarantee european quality products to our consumers must not be sacrificed. the vote on this resolution also led to the exclusion of audiovisual services from the agreement. it's a great win. the full scope for national and european public policy in the audiovisual field must be preserved in order to ensure the capacity of the eu and its member states to regulate this sector in the future. it is about protecting and promoting cultural diversity. for this agreement, as for all the others that the european union will have to negotiate, i hope that social, health and environmental harmonization will always be done from the top.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on the negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and the usa. in fact, in the current state of the negotiating mandate, many concerns remain about the protection of the rights of european consumers and citizens, whether in the areas of agri-foodstuffs, health, public services, or the protection of personal data. parliament has made clear the need to exclude the cultural and audiovisual sectors from the negotiating mandate, but i do not think that this is sufficient. vigilance will be required throughout the negotiation process, bearing in mind that parliament may reject the agreement if it considers it to be insufficiently protective.
in writing. the european parliament approved on thursday 23 may the launch of trade negotiations with the united states. this is a strong political signal to citizens, as a free trade agreement could help to revive the european economy and create millions of jobs. it is estimated that this agreement could generate 119.2 billion euros in profits per year and increase exports by 28%. i am particularly pleased with the determination of the french epp delegation, which was able to echo the concerns of the citizens and succeeded in imposing its red lines in the resolution. i am thinking of the exclusion of the cultural and audiovisual sectors but also of the emphasis on agriculture, which we will be particularly vigilant about. the work of our farmers and the quality of our products must not be sacrificed in favour of a less demanding agreement which would threaten our jobs, the quality of our agriculture, the values and principles we hold dear. i now hope that the member states will continue this dynamic and clearly include in the mandate to be given to the european commission the red lines which the european parliament, listening to the citizens, has rightly underlined.
in writing. as the european union is preparing to open negotiations with the united states with a view to adopting a free trade agreement, the european parliament, which cannot take part in the negotiations directly, nevertheless wished to give its position on them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. this is the case for audiovisual services which were excluded from the negotiating mandate. but it is also the case with agriculture, and more particularly with regard to gmos, growth promoters, food decontamination treatments and cloning; the european standards in these matters are much more demanding than in the united states. the agricultural sector has not been excluded from the negotiating mandate and although i voted for this resolution, i am not entirely satisfied with it and will be watching closely the development of the forthcoming negotiations.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's text on the negotiations for a future free trade agreement between the european union and the united states. the agreement can open up new economic opportunities for a europe in crisis. as regards cultural and audiovisual services, i opposed the inclusion of this sector in the negotiating mandate to be given to the european commission for the coming years, and i welcome the broad support of parliament for the maintenance of the 'cultural exception'. it is a victory for the whole french delegation of the epp group, which has fought to protect european culture. the film and audiovisual industry is not an economic sector like any other, it is the bearer of european identity and should not be sold off to hollywood productions. we are also committed to defending european standards, such as geographical indications, health standards and the exclusion of gmos or cloning.
in writing. i have opposed the transatlantic market project, but not because i was anti-american. i am doing this with determination because voices must be raised, while an anti-democratic, ultra-liberal and anti-freedom project is being prepared (acta). far from being a power, far from being a desire to protect our economies and our citizens, the transatlantic market will expose us to even more savage competition for the sole benefit of ever more gigantic multinationals and ever more rapacious financial markets. the rejection of smart borders and smart safeguards in the european union is already wreaking havoc on our agriculture and industry; imagine what it will be like tomorrow when we extend this crazy principle to this vast expanse that is the united states of america. worse when we think of the strategic sector of defence which risks being absorbed by an american power more vigorous and sovereign than the disarmed europe our leaders have put in place. our nations must stop being left defenseless to the most savage globalization of this black hole of uncontrolled global finance, which will swallow up what is left of our agriculture, industry and services.
in writing. the draft trade and investment agreement with the united states is an economic, social and ecological mistake. it is contrary to the objective of relocating production. it will lead to further relocations to the detriment of the ecological and social quality of production. since us environmental and social standards are in most cases less stringent than those in europe, this will bring down all european regulations. the agreement would also put europe in a geopolitical impasse by prolonging the imperial dominance of the united states in economic and financial matters to the detriment of emerging countries.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this european parliament resolution, which welcomes the negotiation of a free trade agreement between the european union and the united states this agreement, which is a sign of an increasingly liberal europe, would put our markets in direct competition with those of north america. this large transatlantic market would lead to harmonization of our regulations, which would have dramatic effects on social, economic, environmental and health levels. it would simply be intolerable to accept the generalization of the american model and thus sacrifice our european social model, our standards and our values.
in writing. as the european union prepares to negotiate an ambitious free trade agreement with the united states, it is essential that the union be vigilant and firm in defending the interests of europeans vis-à-vis the americans, who will not fail to do so in turn. for it to remain a growth opportunity for both our economies, it is imperative that the future transatlantic partnership does not weaken european standards or call into question the european model of society. in addition to the audiovisual and cultural exceptions, which we are asking to be excluded from the negotiating mandate, the agreement must protect our agriculture and in particular exclude gmos and cloning, as well as our health and environmental rules. finally, as regards the form, the transatlantic negotiations will have to be conducted with the greatest possible transparency if the european commission does not want to repeat the failure of the acta agreement on counterfeiting which our european parliament rejected. obviously, the us congress will play an influential role in these negotiations to defend the interests of its country in a strong and offensive way. the european democracies, the european parliament and national parliaments, must therefore also address this issue and be involved at all stages of the negotiation.
in writing. while i am generally in favour of this agreement, i have strong doubts about the scope of future negotiations, and i have not been able to get a satisfactory answer from our negotiator, the european commission. some sectors deserve special attention: agriculture, defence, culture, etc. for example, in agriculture, europeans have chosen to say 'no' to gmos and 'yes' to high standards of health protection. and we have a duty to defend these choices of society to our business partners! another question is whether the audiovisual sector should be included for the first time in a negotiating mandate. i for my part want the audiovisual sector to be excluded outright from the negotiating mandate and i voted in favour of this, supporting the original text of paragraph 11 of the resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of opening negotiations for a free trade agreement with the united states. according to the european commission, this agreement could increase the eu's gross domestic product by 0.5%. however, we wanted to draw our own red lines: culture, defence and agriculture (including the question of gmos and animal welfare standards) cannot be considered commodities like others. i would like to stress in particular the explicit exclusion of the audiovisual sector from the negotiations. we cannot liberalize this sector, or else we will be crushed by the hollywood compressor roller. the citizens want a europe which protects and safeguards their culture first and foremost.
in writing. i voted against the parliament's resolution on the european commission's negotiating mandate in the discussions for a free trade agreement with the united states. if we french socialists have achieved a significant victory by maintaining the cultural exception, too many elements remain questionable. we have not succeeded in excluding from the negotiations public services, social, environmental, health and food standards (e.g. gmos). these standards, known as collective preferences, cannot be traded because they protect citizens. i would add that with the removal of customs barriers the union would thus be depriving itself of part of its own resources. the european union is also expected to take a more active role in the negotiations on the new rules. an agreement with our american partners, yes. to push for the enlargement of the european union across the atlantic, no.
in writing. the negotiations for an eu-us trade and investment agreement are a great opportunity for our two regions, as it should help to exploit the full potential of economic cooperation. however, the french socialist delegation, in line with its government, agreed on a number of points which must be defended in the negotiations, or which must be excluded from them in the interests of preserving european interests. these include: the non-challengeing of society's choices in health, work, consumption and agriculture; the explicit exclusion of audiovisual services from the field of negotiation, as it is the guarantee of the protection of the cultural and linguistic diversity of the eu countries; the degree of protection of personal data, etc. all these are preconditions for the opening of negotiations. while i am pleased that a majority of members voted in favour of excluding cultural and audiovisual content services from the negotiating mandate, too many points remain unresolved (regulations on health, environmental standards and public procurement, etc.). i cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. it is the return of the great transatlantic market; the mandate is broad, to say the least: 'total abolition of customs duties on industrial and agricultural products' and 'the aim of achieving the highest levels of investment liberalisation'. the tone is set ! the resolution adopted by the european parliament is therefore intended to influence the negotiations which will take place at the next council of ministers, but not to block them. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not blocked. we are firmly resolved, together with the gue/ngl members and in particular those from the left front, to oppose this draft agreement by all means. we voted for all the positive amendments, but we rejected the very principle of this agreement by voting against this resolution. there is no question of abandoning the european social and environmental standards, which are already badly broken, or public procurement to north american multinationals.
in writing. i voted in favour of restoring tariff preferences for myanmar, including the introduction of the 'everything but arms' initiative in the country. however, progress in burma remains fragile. it is important that the measures proposed contribute to lasting peace and positive developments. future business activities and investments by european companies in burma/myanmar should therefore promote the highest standards of corporate integrity and social responsibility, transparency being essential in this regard. accountability and transparency measures will be needed at european level to avoid human rights violations but also to protect the long-term value of investments.
in writing. i strongly support this resolution, which calls on burma to continue the process of democratization that started with the release of aung san suu kyi in late 2010. the text of the resolution is balanced, balancing the progress already made and the challenges facing the country. i welcome the epp group's amendments, which have placed a strong emphasis on respect for the rule of law and democracy, whereas the original text was mainly focused on corporate social responsibility.
in writing. we should welcome the developments currently taking place in burma. if they are still fragile, we must help the country in its transition by bringing our experience to bear. i therefore support this text, which recalls our concerns, which are still too many, and calls on the union to commit itself to its burmese partner.
in writing. i supported the report calling for the re-establishment of the benefit of the generalized tariff preferences in myanmar. this policy of the european union aims to contribute to the development of developing and poor countries by offering them preferential access to our internal market. in practice, countries benefiting from this measure pay less customs duty on all or part of the goods they sell to the union. however, as was the case for myanmar in 1997, the union may decide to terminate this preferential treatment in the event of serious and repeated violations of the fundamental principles laid down in international conventions. in view of the significant number of reforms undertaken by the burmese government since 2011, parliament supported the reintroduction of trade preferences to encourage the country to move towards development and respect for human rights. however, we remain vigilant as to the progress of these reforms and their practical implementation, as the political situation remains fragile.
in writing. suspending economic benefits to encourage a state to follow the path of democracy is a common practice and often successful. burma is a good example of this. the european union had chosen to temporarily suspend the benefit of generalised preferences against it in 1997 because of the widespread practices of forced labour. it is clear that this tactic has borne fruit: democratization is underway in myanmar, although efforts are still needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. this is especially so as the measure will promote myanmar's exports in the textile sector. we know from experience that economic development is conducive to democratic progress.
in writing. the alpine region has its own specific characteristics, in terms of economic activity, agriculture and transport. it has to face particular environmental and energy challenges and overcome natural handicaps. i strongly support the establishment of a macro-regional strategy for the alps. this strategy, which has long been advocated by the rhône-alpes and paca regions and by the conference of the alpine regions, has today received the support of the european parliament in a joint resolution adopted by a very large majority. that's good news. social and territorial cohesion can only develop through the intertwining of territories and cooperation between the state and the regions. we must go beyond the 'alpine space' programme and provide these territories with a real strategy enabling them to act more effectively to ensure socioeconomic development and the preservation of their natural heritage.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to prepare a strategy for the alps, as it has done for the baltic, the danube and soon for the atlantic arc. these strategies aim to coordinate funding and actions to meet the challenges of mobility, energy security and environmental protection, due to the structural complexities of this mountainous area. this strategy is based on the articulation of the region's various priorities, both those of the large cities and those of the remote mountainous areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the creation of a macro-regional strategy for the alpine regions. these countries, regardless of their status, face common environmental, economic, social or demographic problems. since these problems are not confined to a single 'national side' of the mountain range, it is appropriate to deepen existing crossborder cooperation to find solutions. it is not a question of creating a new level between the state and the region, or of reducing the prerogatives of the former. based on a shared will of the actors on the ground, the aim of such a strategy is really to bring all the stakeholders together to build concrete projects that improve the alpine economy and the daily lives of the inhabitants of this area.
in writing. the alpine regions contain unique resources and ecosystems which must not only be protected but also enhanced, taking into account their specificities. the establishment of a macro-regional strategy would make this possible, as has been done for the baltic sea and danube regions, for example. we expect the commission to present an action plan for the region which will make it possible to better coordinate european funding, particularly that of cohesion policy, to implement joint projects in order to better protect this unique environment and take account of its specific challenges.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution in favour of a macro-regional strategy for the alps. the concept of macro-region is well suited to the alpine area as it aims to define a large territorial area, beyond national and administrative borders, facing common realities, and relevant for the coherence of policies and projects according to an overall vision of territorial cooperation, in the service of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. as regards concrete examples of cooperation, i welcome the recent example of the joint initiative of the parco naturale delle alpi marittime (italy) and the mercantour national park (france), of which i was president. in addition, i attach the greatest importance to the alpine-mediterranean euroregion, which brings together five french and italian regions (provence-alpes-côte d'azur, liguria, piedmont, valle d'aosta and rhône-alpes) and which can act as a driving force within the alpine area. this euroregion is to be legally structured by the creation of a european grouping for territorial cooperation in order to strengthen franco-italian cooperation.
in writing. i do not see what more a macro-regional strategy for the alps could bring than the alpine convention. i think it might even hurt him. there is already an 'alpine area' funded by the union, and strangely enough alsace is part of it, which, it seems to me, is not in the heart of the alps! i have already had the opportunity to say in this chamber that the macro-regional fancy in vogue today is aimed at promoting short-circuiting at the national level. it also maintains the blurring not only of internal borders but also of external borders, since regions of non-eu countries are invited to participate. the blurring of the internal administrative boundaries of the member states is also to be added, since only parts of the regions could be selected because of certain specific features and not others. it even calls into question the borders of the continents: i seem to recall a report adopted here which proposed a mediterranean macro-region including north africa and the middle east. the icing on the cake: these macro-regions give the commission a role in cooperation which could very well do without them or which has done very well up to now.
in writing. when addressing the question of territorial cohesion and the development of regions with specific characteristics such as the alps, the macro-regional level is increasingly seen as appropriate to address the very specific problems they face. that is why i have supported this resolution, which is to lay the foundations for crossborder territorial cooperation between the states which make up the alpine region. beyond very specific cases, we should use this example to repeat it wherever it might prove relevant.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on a macro-regional strategy for the alps. as the representative of the greater south east region, i am delighted that a large majority of meps supported this historic initiative. in the face of the many challenges facing mountain regions (energy, transport, climate change, etc.), we have shown our citizens that the european union has an ambitious plan for the alps, which are at the heart of our continent. in the current context of budgetary constraints, this adopted text is excellent news for me: regional policy remains at the heart of brussels' action.
in writing. i supported the resolution supporting the establishment of a macro-regional strategy for the alps, as it will provide a framework for the policies pursued by the different levels of governance concerned in this region of the heart of europe. following the example of the strategy adopted for the danube and baltic sea regions, a strategy for the alps would allow for better crossborder cooperation and better access to european funding, and would therefore make it possible to mobilise all the resources for optimal territorial development, taking into account the geographical, ecological and socioeconomic specificities of the region. the text calls on the commission to work in depth on this proposal.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a large majority of the resolution on a macro-regional strategy for the alps, which opens up new prospects for the mountain ranges. this project will coordinate the actions of the different actors in france, italy, switzerland, austria and others who are united by common interests to develop effective partnerships, provide joint responses and thus put an end to isolated initiatives with limited effects. the alps are facing major environmental challenges (the source of glaciers, fragile ecosystems), sociological (the exodus of young people, the ageing of the population), economic, etc. this strategy will create synergies to improve transport and energy infrastructure, develop tourism, promote mobility and cultural exchanges while preserving local specificities such as traditional forms of agricultural land use. it should be noted that 40% of european citizens live in crossborder areas and that they therefore deserve special attention. i therefore regret that the european council of 8 february voted to reduce regional aid, and in particular by 30% for crossborder cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's proposal for a macro-regional strategy in the alps. the programme, which has already been set up for the baltic and danube regions, aims to establish a common strategy between the alpine border states. france, in particular, is very much in favour of the development of this project, which should boost this geographical area. the interest of the macro-regional strategy is to provide a framework at european level for the coordination of union funding and thus to create joint projects capable of responding to challenges shared by several member states. environment, water management and transport are all policies which will become more efficient and productive if they bring together all the actors concerned.
in writing. for decades, mountain towns and villages, ski resorts and nature parks in the alps have been cooperating spontaneously, across borders, on a daily basis, to meet their common challenges. they now expect europe to help them to combine their efforts on a massive scale to define a strategy and an overall vision and thus to mobilise more funding. i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the development of a macro-regional strategy for the alps. the purpose of a macro-region is to coordinate existing funding on specific priorities. crossborder cooperation of this kind is the very example of european integration in everyday life. they embody a european project adapted to the needs of the territories. however, i voted against paragraph 5 of the joint resolution which arbitrarily limited the area of this macro-region to that of the 'alpine convention'. this restriction was not in any way in line with the objectives of the local actors and the regions concerned.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a very large majority of the joint resolution on working conditions in bangladesh, of which i am a co-signer. it notes the worst disaster in the history of the textile industry: the rana plaza disaster in dhaka, which is believed to have killed at least 1,127 people. in view of the successive tragedies in bangladesh, we emphasize in this resolution the responsibility of the various actors: the subcontractors but also the big international brands whose profits here are largely due to the lack of safety standards there. the latter should establish voluntary social signage to ensure that the ilo's core standards have been met. the action plan agreed on 4 may between the various parties (bangladesh government, employers, workers and the ilo) and the ratification of the convention on building safety in bangladesh by some 40 multinational companies are to be welcomed, but the european commission should ensure that this leads to effective compliance with the ilo's international labour standards. if not, we urge it to review the customs benefits enjoyed by bangladesh to encourage the government to act.
in writing. in view of the recent incidents in bangladesh, i would have preferred that corporate social responsibility was mandatory, as voluntary csr has so far really seemed to be a failure. although this may seem to be a constraint for european companies in the face of global competition, here in the field of human rights and dignity our european companies would have the opportunity to be 'model companies' and in the medium term to attract more european consumers who are increasingly sensitive to virtuous companies. the fact that they can be easily identified by a 'social label' would be a real advantage for all. i also voted against the commission's immediate initiation of an investigation to remove the tariff preferences granted to bangladesh, because penalizing a country which is already exploited by western companies is not necessarily the most appropriate way of supporting it in the way of better application of international social standards. let us not blame the big multinational textile companies for this country.
in writing. the recent accidents and fires in textile factories in bangladesh are intolerable: we cannot accept that workers lose their lives or their health because their employer has chosen not to respect its basic safety obligations. european companies must be the first to comply with the basic rules on the safety and health of their employees. they have a moral obligation to them, but also to their customers: european citizens do not want clothes produced in inhuman conditions. we expect these companies to provide proof of their ambition, for the respect and dignity of their workers.
in writing. the hundreds of deaths in bangladesh are the direct result of globalist ultra-trading and commercial cynicism. i regret that there is no condemnation in this text of the perverse system which, by subjecting all its actors to the pressure of the lowest cost and the highest profit, can only lead to this kind of tragedy. i regret the lack of denunciation of a system which encourages the exploitation of the poorest of the world, to dress cheaply the poor you create in rich countries, and at great expense the rich of those same countries, who, deceived, think they pay for quality, when they pay only sweat and blood. i have voted for this text, given the positive aspects it contains.
in writing. the textile factory that collapsed earlier this month in bangladesh was mainly producing clothes for european and american brands. over 1,000 people were killed. it's the worst industrial disaster in this country. one official said that four huge generators were installed on the roof of the building in violation of all safety rules. that's the weight that caused the collapse. the mayor of savar was suspended for authorizing the construction. but is he the only one responsible? bangladesh is the third largest supplier of clothing to the european union. the member states which allow goods produced under these conditions to be sold on their territory are at best complicit in having turned a blind eye. an increase in the monthly wage of bangladeshi workers from 30 to 80 euros a month would cost european consumers 28 cents per garment. at the same time, the relocation of companies to countries such as bangladesh is creating unemployment in europe. in the face of this globalisation of exploitation, we propose ecological and social visas which tax goods produced in conditions of labour law violations. it is in the interest of all, europeans and bangladeshis.
in writing. i supported the parliament's resolution on working conditions, in particular health and safety standards in bangladesh. we call on the european commission to promote the defence of human rights in companies and to hold managers accountable to their employees. parliament called for the persons responsible for these events to be brought to justice. the eu can put pressure on bangladesh to undertake reforms on workers' protection by threatening or withdrawing the third country's privileged access to the internal market. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations were not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war.
in writing. on this vote, it seemed to me essential to include corporate social responsibility in the european parliament's resolution, especially after the terrible events in bangladesh. we have a duty to ensure the safety of production sites and to minimize health risks in developing countries. that is why i supported this resolution.
in writing. the tragic events that struck bangladesh last month, killing a thousand people and injuring more than 2,500, are a sad reflection of the deplorable working conditions of workers in that country, as in all countries where very low wages are practised. it is unacceptable that multinational companies take advantage of the absence of legislation on working conditions in these countries to enrich themselves at the expense of the workers. workers who, in an undignified work environment and for meager wages, manufacture consumer goods for the west. the european institutions have a role to play in this matter and it is imperative that the commission and the council adopt appropriate legislation to avoid such tragedies in the future. i therefore support the proposals in parliament's resolution which seek, among other things, to make european companies and their managers face their responsibilities and which call on the union, in concluding agreements with third countries, to take effective account of respect for social rights.
in writing. over a thousand people died in the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh. this terrible tragedy must not go unpunished and i support this resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the resolution calls on the commission to examine bangladesh's compliance with human rights conventions and to investigate whether the country has violated the principles set out in these conventions. the resolution calls on the government and the competent judicial authorities to investigate allegations that the regulations were not being implemented.
in writing. i have already said it in my speech in the january debate, and i have repeated it in the debate on thursday 23 may, which preceded the vote on this resolution: companies, whether multinational or not, must take their share of responsibility here. it is true that after the accident on 24 april some of these companies signed a safety agreement. but it's still too little. too little because this project was launched last year, and it took over a thousand deaths before it became a reality. too little because it will apply to less than a third of bangladeshi companies. and too little because it does not solve the main problems at all: the lack of controls on the ground, the lack of sanctions and the involvement of western companies, which i would describe as fluctuating. i voted in favour of this resolution because it shows our determination to act by all means at our disposal to advance the health and safety of bangladeshi workers, in collaboration with the government authorities, businesses and ngos on the ground.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution following the fires and the collapse of textile factories in bangladesh, which killed over 1000 people. in this resolution we call on the union and the member states to do everything possible to help improve working conditions in that country. the resolution also calls on the commission to draw up a report on the respect of the various conventions on human rights in bangladesh. european companies, for their part, must take responsibility and respect labour law obligations so that clothing produced in bangladesh ceases to be clothing paid for with blood.
in writing. in response to the tragic incidents in bangladesh on 24 april, meps drafted a resolution which received overwhelming support in plenary. i myself support this resolution, which calls on the bangladeshi authorities to act without delay to ensure that the factories in the country comply with international labour rights. it calls on multinationals to adhere fully to internationally recognised corporate social responsibility practices and the conventions of the international labour organisation, and to carry out in-depth investigations into the way their subsidiaries and supply chains operate. the european socialists also stressed the need to create a system of transnational judicial cooperation to facilitate access to justice for victims. we also call on the authorities to bring to justice those responsible for criminal negligence or criminal responsibility at any level for the collapse of the rana plaza building and the fire in the tazreen workshop.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on working conditions in bangladesh. the tragedy of the collapse of rana plaza, a building occupied by many textile workshops working for european and american brands, has brought to mind the deplorable working conditions for workers, especially female workers, in this country. it is urgent to put pressure on the bangladeshi government to prevent such disasters from happening again and to put an end to the irresponsibility of western policy makers. the fact that a number of major brands have refused to sign a legally binding commitment is a testament to the failure of the voluntary corporate social responsibility (csr) regime and the hypocrisy, if not cynicism, that prevails in this area. i therefore regret that the amendment tabled by the gue/ngl to establish a legally binding csr system has been rejected. this resolution, adopted by an overwhelming majority, seems to me to be a very weak declaration of good intentions in view of the issues at stake. it can nevertheless be a signal to the commission and the member states to finally take action with european companies operating abroad.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the execution of mohammed afzal guru on saturday 9 february is a sign of an alarming and regressive trend towards the resumption of the death penalty in india. this is the second execution in three months in india after an eight-year hiatus. india thus finds itself in a counter-trend to the abolitionist trend observed in the rest of the world. in total, 140 countries, or more than two thirds of the world, are abolitionist in law or in practice. in 2011, only 21 countries applied this punishment, which means, ladies and gentlemen, that 90% of the states abstain from it. mohammed afzal guru was sentenced to death in december 2002 by a special court established under the prevention of terrorism act 2002. there are serious doubts about the fairness of his trial. he did not choose his lawyer, nor did he decide to be represented by a lawyer with adequate experience in the trial. it was the practice of the indian authorities to make publicly available information on the rejection of appeals for clemency and the dates of execution before any execution. this new approach of carrying out executions in secret is therefore particularly alarming. this parliamentary resolution recalls that we are opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances, without exception, whatever the nature or circumstances of the crime committed, whether the convicted person is guilty or innocent. we therefore call on the indian government and parliament to adopt a permanent moratorium on executions with a view to abolishing the death penalty as soon as possible.
author. - mr president, in 2011, when india applied for membership of the un human rights council, it committed itself to the highest standards of human rights. on 21 november 2011, it was one of the few countries to vote against the un resolution on the moratorium on the death penalty. nearly 1,500 people are currently on death row in india, some of them for more than a decade. ngos estimate that more than 130 people are sentenced to death each year. worse, un special rapporteur christof heyns, who visited the country in 2012, expressed concern that the death penalty could be imposed in an apparently increasing manner, and insisted that it could only be imposed for the most serious crimes under article 6 of the international covenant on civil and political rights. the execution of mohammed afzal guru is, in fact, a sad example in this respect, since it seems that he was not given a fair trial, that his co-accused were fortunately given a different treatment, that his family was not even warned of his impending execution and that his body was not even returned to his family. this execution has led to major protests in kashmir, it has been said. these were violently suppressed. all this is not worthy of a country that should be the world's largest democracy. the death penalty is still intolerable. there can be no exceptions. it's a barbaric punishment, not worthy of the 21st century. the indian authorities should get their act together and go back to the abolitionist camp, in law or in fact, as they did for eight years, from 2004 to 2012.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we share your concern about the execution of mr afzal guru in india on 9 february this year. the high representative and vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, issued a statement on this case immediately after 11 february, reaffirming the european union's firm and principled opposition to the death penalty in all circumstances and calling on india to reinstate a moratorium on the execution of death sentences. this decision on execution and the execution was the second after an extended period of eight years in which no death sentences were carried out in india. the other case was ajmal kasab, the only survivor of the mumbai attack who was captured alive. he was strangled to death last november. the european union also expressed its concern at the resumption of executions after a break of at least eight years. after the president of india has rejected a number of clemency petitions in recent weeks, we fear that more executions may soon follow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. some cases are and have been the subject of great attention by the world public and by you, the members of the european parliament. i would like to mention the case of devinder pal singh bhullar, who has been a cause of concern to us, who has been waiting for more than ten years for a decision on a pardon he has applied for, and whose mental health has been greatly affected by this. we know that there is a lack of clarity in civil society about the criteria by which presidential pardon applications are decided, and the high number of refusals is also a cause for concern. we support india in its fight against terrorism of all kinds and have repeatedly stressed our readiness to discuss this issue with the government in delhi. the fight against terrorism must, however, be conducted in full respect of the rule of law and with the necessary guarantees. we believe that the death penalty is not an effective deterrent to crime or to the planning and execution of terrorist acts. the european union is always seeking to engage with the indian government and its authorities on the death penalty and its execution, and we will continue to do so. to this end, we must make full use of the opportunities offered by the human rights dialogue conducted on the ground. we hope that the indian government will soon offer us a new date for resuming and continuing this dialogue, which has unfortunately been postponed several times. thank you for your commitment.
author. - mr president, earlier this month miss mary robinson, the united nations special envoy for the great lakes region, said: 'the solution to the conflict must not be military only, but above all political'. the dialogue between the civilian and military forces in this region must be open. for this, the very existence of a democratic opposition force in rwanda is essential. victoire ingabire, a symbol of the struggle against oppression, against unity of thought and injustice, already dubbed by some the rwandan aung san suu kyi, who was sentenced to eight years in prison for her political opposition, must be able to enjoy a fair trial and an appeal procedure in line with international standards. the european union therefore has a role to play in this matter, not only to support the commitment of a woman of conviction but also, and above all, to send a clear signal to our rwandan partners. the european union must condemn in the strongest possible terms political trials, the persecution of opponents and the rigged trials. rwanda must establish an independent judicial system that is consistent with international law and respects human rights. i therefore support the sending of a european observer mission to the country to ensure that the appeal of mrs ingabire's trial is conducted properly and thus contribute to the restoration of democratic debate in that country.
author. - mr president, politics in rwanda remains deeply affected by the consequences of the 1994 genocide against the tutsi. the case of victoire ingabire is undoubtedly an example of this. forced into exile in the netherlands for 16 years, she became a figure in the rwandan diaspora, particularly in women's associations, and later became a leader of the movement of unified democratic forces. she returned to rwanda to run in the presidential elections, but was denied the right to run, arrested twice, and after a lengthy trial lasting several months, sentenced to eight years in prison. to say the least, this trial falls short of international standards. he has been largely tainted by irregularities, not least of which are the confessions of his co-accused, most likely obtained under torture, not to mention the interference of the president of the republic of rwanda, paul kagame, who has spread in the media talking about the alleged guilt of victoire ingabire. that's a strange concept of judicial independence. the 2008 genocide ideology act is arguably the reason for this conviction. initially voted to limit speech inciting racial hatred, it has in fact gradually become a weapon against political opponents. this has to stop. the european union must do its utmost to help. mrs. ingabire has a right to a fair trial on appeal.
mr president, of course i apologise! two things: i apologise to my colleague reul, because i did not mean him. i also apologize to the colleague i was referring to for not saying it like that. well, we know each other, that's life sometimes. i'm sorry about that. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i am simply giving you an overview. the conference of presidents has invited two presidents of the republic who are going to make very high-level speeches, but as a member i had very much enjoyed the exchange we had with the president of the french republic, who is a member of the european council, and i think that in our house we would like to have more debates with the members of the european council. could you not consider inviting the president of the government and the prime minister instead, so that we can have discussions with these two states about how they govern states?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr salvatore iacolino on the excellent report which is before us. criminal gangs are becoming more and more polymorphic. they operate with drug trafficking, cigarette trafficking, but they also deceive consumers with low-cost products that are dangerous to human health and the environment, with counterfeit medicines and everyday products, pesticides, etc. criminal networks organise human trafficking with illegal immigration and forced prostitution. they use bribery to buy a service, a favor, or silence, and money laundering to cover up their criminal activities. what can i do? we have european institutions which have become aware of the situation. the institutions and agencies europol, ecpol and eurojust who are doing remarkable work against criminal networks on a daily basis should also be commended. and we also welcome the recent proposals of the european commission. they have just been quoted by the commissioner. i won't mention any more. as identified in the iacolino report, many other areas of reflection and reform are still to be considered. we must strengthen police and judicial cooperation by focusing on training. it is also possible to exclude from public tenders operators convicted of criminal activities or money laundering and to set up a european list of criminal organisations in a transparent manner. let us not forget that the first to suffer are the citizens of europe. this report should make us aware that the mafia is not confined to one part of the european union. it is time to act accordingly and to raise awareness, because we are talking about billions of euros diverted from the legal economy at the expense of taxpayers. it is a question of morality, but also of security for the citizens of europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year in europe, nearly 170 000 people die from work-related accidents or diseases. to combat this scourge, it is essential to adapt occupational health legislation to the new risks. this directive on electromagnetic fields is one of the few initiatives on health and safety at work adopted under the current european commission. we have obtained clarification and strengthening of the protection rules based on the latest available scientific data. the major challenge for the coming years will be to ensure adequate protection of workers against the long-term effects of electromagnetic fields and therefore new initiatives will be required. the commission first proposed to exclude mri machines from the scope of the directive, ignoring the risks and pathologies identified. it is thanks to the european parliament that mri will benefit from a specific framework regime which will allow their use in respect of the health of workers. the urgency is there and, in view of this urgency, the member states must implement this directive as quickly as possible. i expect the commission to put pressure on these states to ensure that this directive is properly implemented.
mr president, i should like to take this opportunity to thank mrs morin-chartier. this is an important directive, because it will protect the health of workers who will be exposed to electromagnetic fields. at the same time, it shows that these electromagnetic fields can have health effects, both in the nervous system, in the cardiovascular system, in the heat stress, even in the burns they can cause. it was therefore important to legislate. the legislation refers to an international commission on non-ionizing radiation protection, called icnirp, which has made new recommendations, and to the international centre for research on cancer, which has shown that radiofrequencies can be carcinogenic, and which they have classified as 2b. i think it is important to set limit values and, at the same time, action values. what i deeply regret is that the long-term effects were not considered. but a whole series of studies show that there are long-term effects. i call on the member states to be more protective and to recognise these side effects, and on the commission to make a directive now for the public.
author. - mr president, we wanted to put this oral question in the wake of the communication that commissioner andor and the college put on the table, both in view of the debate that is to take place at the european council in june, when the question of the social dimension of economic and monetary union will have to be discussed, and also in view of a multiannual framework for our finances in which the issue of social investment in the context of the use of the budget of the european union will be at the heart of the concerns. we know that within the european union, and particularly within the euro area, the countries with the highest risk of poverty and social exclusion are also those that most often have the highest per capita deficits. so it is in our interest, if we want to get out of the economic crisis we are in, to invest socially. it is also a guarantee of efficiency, since the most efficient societies and member states are those in which social investment is maintained at a high level, whether in times of crisis or not. that is why, from a budgetary point of view, we attach great importance to the fact that 25% of the cohesion policy funds should be allocated to the european social fund. that is also why we support this proposal for a guarantee of eur 6 billion for the youth employment initiative, even though we reject the idea of such an initiative being used as a balance in any account for financing social investment. and i think we have to be careful about that. but we also hope that when the european commission examines the situation in the member states in the context of the european semester, it will attach equal importance to this issue of social investment. finally, step by step, we must build a balanced governance that leads first to having the right tools. this is the famous issue at stake in this discussion of what are called, in good european parlance, scoreboards, score charts which, on the basis of numerical indicators, enable us to have an observatory that is as attentive to social imbalances as we have been for so many years to public deficits or debt levels. such a scoreboard should help to feed - it seems to us - the mechanism for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances, but it should also make it possible, in an autonomous way, to control social investment. for this reason - and this is a personal reflection - i think that the balance within the councils must be corrected. this dynamic, this social investment of which everyone is aware, and which is so necessary today, will not be achieved in the balance of the councils as they exist today, where the ecofin council is, in a certain way, playing the lead. the orchestra leader should be president herman van rompuy and/or president barroso. each will choose its institutional architecture. but within these structures, the balance between the commissioners, the balance between the councils, must be better, because otherwise there is no possible arbitration in favour of a strategy that will allow us to emerge from the crisis and that will allow social investment to be the bearer of the triple dynamic that it must be, both the maintenance of social protection systems, the creation of automatic stabilisers and social investment as such, since we know well that the main challenges facing the european union are those to which social investment must be able to respond. what are the challenges facing the european union? these are the ones, we're always told, of innovation, of the ability to have the best educated population to meet challenges on a global scale. we will not achieve this unless we fully legitimise support through automatic stabilisers for those excluded from the world of work, unless we invest in getting everyone back to work, unless we invest in fighting poverty at work and outside work and unless we allow education to remain the true golden rule of the european social model.
mr president, commissioner, the commission, in its communication of last february on european investment in the social field, lists a number of measures to combat unemployment, poverty and social exclusion in europe. i wanted to applaud these efforts. however, let us not misunderstand. the 23.4% of young unemployed in europe do not simply expect calls for administrative coordination. they're waiting for results. when the european council announces to them in 2012 a 120 billion growth pact for smes and young people, and in may 2013 these young people have not seen a penny of it, we risk discouraging them. when this same council announces, with drums and trumpets, in february, the creation of a youth employment initiative worth €6 billion, of which €3 billion is actually from the esf, and at the same time the commission's proposals for erasmus are lowered and the 2013 budget is refused, we risk discouraging them. when we propose an fead of €2.5 billion, when the needs are estimated at €4 billion and the very existence of this aid for the poorest is threatened, we risk discouraging them. when we advocate a social market economy but fail to control the application of the rules on posting of workers, we risk discouraging them. so the european union should stop the advertise effects and strive to achieve results. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i have heard your plea, but i have the impression that in your list you are forgetting certain episodes, such as when some imagined that the way out of the crisis for the european union would be through a 'euro plus pact' which totally denied any dimension of social investment or when some governments committed themselves to abolishing the fund for aid to the poorest. i would also like us to have a somewhat active memory and to be aware of the change of direction since certain elections which you obviously do not wish to mention and which you think you can criticise. i think you should also look to your own side for the responsibility for the situation we are in today.
answer is "blue cardboard". i think there was no question, so there is not much to answer, except that we have been working on these issues for the past year and i do not think they are related to what mrs berès has just mentioned.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, austerity cannot be an end in itself. the european union must put social issues at the heart of the european project. economic integration must be accompanied by a european social pact guaranteeing quality social protection, employment measures for young people, decent wages, guaranteed universal access to health, training and education services and quality public services, and decent housing for all. the responses to the crisis have so far been short-term responses, mainly based on fiscal consolidation measures, thus worsening the situation of the weakest and most disadvantaged. with this resolution we underline the urgency of social investment, whose counter-cyclical role will ensure a decent life for all citizens. we need a european policy involving the social partners and civil society. economic governance must include the definition and observance of structural social indicators to assess the social policies of the member states and to guide their development. these piloting tools are indispensable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say a few words on the subject of road cabotage and, in particular, on its latest political developments. as you know, the european regulations on road cabotage are a failure. it is a failure for employment, a failure for respect for social and environmental regulations, a failure for europe which, because it does not have the competence to make the market fair, ends up trading unemployed people here for road-traffic-laden people there. a few months ago the commission suggested that it was going to make a huge mistake of what was already a serious mistake by taking a further step towards liberalizing road cabotage in europe. many of us have mobilized against this way of thinking and facing the dangers and siim kallas, it seems, has heard the truth, at least that is what we read in the press. i would therefore like to take the opportunity of the european commissioner's visit tomorrow to invite him, once again, to declare, as common sense dictates, that this matter is no longer relevant. the europe we want is a europe of justice and we cannot sacrifice the workers of the road haulage sector on the altar of political incapacity ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, our parliament will be looking at the situation of the rights of protesters in turkey. why not? why not? but i think it would have been better, perhaps, to have looked at the rights of protesters in a member country, in this case france. in recent months france has been the scene of repeated and perfectly peaceful demonstrations by millions of people who have come to defend the family, to defend marriage based on the union of a man and a woman and the children born of their love. these protests were treated in an undignified manner by the government. there has been unjustified police violence and the use of tear gas by the police, including against families with children and even against female parliamentarians. there have been arbitrary arrests where the odious sometimes amounted to ridicule and, in particular, for the sole reason of wearing, for example, a t-shirt. there were excessive security guards. all this is not to the credit of my country's government and parliament should look into this situation.
member of the commission. − mr president, the consumer agenda is a comprehensive consumer strategy, designed to put consumer policy at the heart of our actions. it is to be pursued in cooperation with all stakeholders: the national authorities, including those in charge of enforcement, consumer organisations and, of course, businesses. in this context, i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr garcés ramón, and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. the report that he has prepared provides the commission with extremely valuable guidance on how to implement and further develop the consumer agenda in the years to come. i very much welcome the strong convergence of views between the two institutions, and also with the council, which adopted a very supportive resolution last october, on the importance of a comprehensive, crosscutting approach to consumer policy as an essential contribution to the proper functioning of the single market. with consumer expenditure representing 56% of eu gdp, consumers drive markets and markets drive the economy. as highlighted in the report, we will structure our action around the four pillars of the consumer agenda: improving consumer safety; enhancing knowledge of consumer rights through information, education and support to consumer organisations; the key issue of improving enforcement and redress; and aligning consumer rights and key policies to economic and societal changes which include the integration of consumer interests in key sectoral policies, and therefore enhancing the efficiency of those policies. in this context i welcome, in particular, that parliament has identified the key sectors of the financial sector, digital services, energy and transport. the report also rightly insists on the two key challenges of meeting the needs of vulnerable consumers and of moving towards more sustainable patterns of consumption. this report clearly demonstrates that we agree to a very large extent on the key importance of making consumer policy deliver for european citizens. it is all the more important at this point in time when many of them are in a very difficult situation. we must not forget that it is often as consumers that citizens view the eu in their daily lives. we must therefore ensure that the initiatives listed under the agenda are delivered to their benefit. in this context, the commission will present at the beginning of 2014 a report on the implementation of the consumer agenda to the european parliament. to conclude, i would like to stress that the commission very much appreciates the valuable report that parliament has produced, which will make a key contribution to the commission’s work on consumer policy.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to you my report on social housing in the european union. far from receding, housing shortages are deeply rooted in europe. the faces varied from homelessness to poor housing, to discomfort and degraded habitat. there are millions of poorly housed people in europe. housing has become the first concern of our fellow citizens. access to housing has become a real struggle, especially for the poorest, the most vulnerable, the youngest and single-parent families. today, many europeans can no longer afford to have access to decent housing in the private sector because of the soaring costs of housing and energy. i say in this house that the right to housing is being attacked all over europe, whereas the right to housing is a fundamental right. almost 6% of europeans are homeless, 18% live in overcrowded or unsuitable housing and more than 10% of households have housing over-cost which, ladies and gentlemen, exceeds 40% of their disposable income. finally, between 50 and 125 million europeans are affected by energy poverty. the sum of these figures should be a wake-up call. similarly, member states and local authorities are sacrificing social housing subsidies to reduce their expenditure. you have to think long term. austerity is not an end in itself, the trend of declining investment in this sector is now putting social cohesion at risk. the european union must respond to the social emergency and unjust expulsions. is it not its ambition to lift 20 million europeans out of poverty by 2020? investing in social housing today is the first step to get out of the crisis, the economic crisis, the social crisis and the ecological crisis. why would you do that? because a large social housing stock is a better way of preventing the price spike in the private housing stock, of avoiding the emergence of disastrous housing bubbles, as is the case in spain or ireland. because housing is not only an indispensable social buffer in times of crisis, but also because it is an essential pillar for the recovery of employment, in particular local employment, which cannot be outsourced to green sectors - and here, i insist - in particular, a lever to fight against climate change. the energy transition also involves the renovation, particularly thermal, of these habitats. housing should not be presented as a large expense in the commission's eyes. this is an investment in the future which deserves to be better reflected in a social investment pact. the union has financial levers, in particular through the structural funds. it is up to the commission to provide a coherent policy framework between these instruments for the member states and communities and to encourage the exchange of best practice, starting with the establishment of a european housing observatory. it is also up to the commission to implement the european strategy to combat homelessness that parliament has adopted since september 2011, and to ensure that the reform of the legislation governing mortgage loans makes it possible to put an end to unjust evictions, as in spain where banks have thrown entire families onto the streets. the resolution also proposes policy recommendations to member states to ensure social inclusion through housing through measures to promote social diversity, prevent evictions, ensure transparency in the allocation of social housing, control urban sprawl and combat empty housing. i have nevertheless noticed that a large number of requests for separate votes were tabled, whereas all the compromises were adopted in committee. i would like to remind you of the responsibility of each of you. if we empty this text of its substance, you will send the wrong message to our fellow citizens. at a time when the european union is being criticised for being far from reality, europe, by investing in social housing, can help to restore the confidence of european citizens by improving their living conditions.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr. member, i will not allow you to say in this house that a stigmatised population, such as the roma, who would have access to social housing, is degrading social housing. this is a flagrant act of discrimination and stigmatisation which is unworthy of the european parliament. i ask you a very simple question: do you have criteria for access to social housing, which would be a step backwards and a challenge to the principles of universal accessibility, including social housing? (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the second time this year we are raising the question of the reform of regional state aids, which is raising a lot of concerns. yes, we recognize that taxpayers' money should not be used to keep moribund or unproductive businesses afloat. yes, we recognize that public aid should not lead to a subsidy race between regional authorities. yes, we recognize that strict rules must be applied to avoid distortion of competition. we are against the use of public money to encourage relocations. why does the european commission allow on the one hand what it takes away on the other? why give more structural funds to certain regions in difficulty while limiting their possibilities of allocating public aid? finally, why make this distinction between small and large firms in certain regions? the important thing is not the size of the enterprise but the relevance of the aid to the economy of a given territory. finally, i would stress the need for special treatment for the outermost regions and border areas.
madam president, commissioner, the european union's legislation in the food sector must inform and protect european citizens. beyond this general rule, we must pay extra attention to certain particular audiences, which are potentially more fragile and therefore require a specific legal framework. this is the case, for example, with infants. i would like to commend the work of my colleague, mrs frédérique ries, and also that of my colleague, mrs esther de lange, on this rather complex matter. i have personally advocated a wider scope of this legislation and tabled amendments to that effect. however, knowing the difficulty of negotiating compromises supported by a majority in parliament and in the council, i can accept the final version of this text. i would like to return to one point, however. commissioner, as you know, i am very interested in the world of sport, and this is the question of sports nutrition. you are aware that athletes are a special group, subject to intense muscular effort and, for professional athletes, subject to very strict rules on doping. i think it is essential that legislation should be introduced on the diet of sportsmen. the european parliament and the council agreed on the need for the commission to work on this issue with the assistance of efsa. i therefore call on the european commission to start working on this matter as soon as possible and to propose a draft legislation to the co-legislators. i think this is a very important question.
madam president, commissioner, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs frédérique ries, who has done a great deal of work on this text, which should help consumers to understand the sometimes misleading world of dietary foods a little better. in order to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as children, the greens have fought to ban the most dangerous pesticides in the production of food that is specifically intended for them. we therefore welcome the introduction of the precautionary principle in this text and we would remind you that children, whose metabolism is much more fragile than ours, must be protected from all these toxic substances in the diet. we have also called for specific rules on the use of nanomaterials and for stricter rules on labelling and advertising. it is essential not to mislead the consumer and we shall therefore vote in favour of this text.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, as i hear you say, commissioner, i feel i must ask you: are you making fun of us? i know you don't know anything about the case, but mrs. reding should be here. but i feel like saying, "nothing new under the transatlantic sun". the revelations in the british press about the prism programme only confirm what only a few of us have consistently denounced, since it is the protection of data as seen by the united states. i can still hear the vice president of the united states, joe biden, right here in may 2010, telling us how much the privacy of american citizens was protected by the u.s. constitution. the number of doubters has increased in these last days. thanks to edward snowden, we know that the nsa directly accesses the servers of at least nine internet companies, not the least of which. let's ignore the fact that these internet giants have a variety of defenses, from "we didn't know" to "we review all requests carefully". the most worrying thing for us europeans came straight from president obama's mouth. and that's not an admission, because he said coldly that in law, internet surveillance does not apply to u.s. citizens or people living on u.s. soil. a judge has to authorize the spying on a citizen of these countries. the law of the united states has clearly been violated. let's get through. but in the background, there's the admission that everyone else can be spied on freely. that is exactly what we have been saying for months: european citizens do not have the same rights as those in the united states. thousands of data are collected en masse, indiscriminately, in bulk and without any wrongdoing being blamed. the supervisory authorities at europol keep telling us that. so we say to you: enough is enough! we cannot bear to see your representatives return to the tftp negotiations without having obtained the slightest concession. we had rejected swift in the first place. we rejected acta because we want european citizens to have the right to data protection. it's been too long. enough of the hypocrisy. we have too much evidence of the reality of the facts. we must demand that the united states protect the data of european citizens.
in writing. in the name of the fight against terrorism, the united states and its british accomplices have accustomed us to an increasingly serious disregard for the right to privacy. the prism programme is just one more step in the widespread recording of the population by the us intelligence services. it is now a genuine spyware programme that collects private data from users of large it companies' platforms. these users may be ordinary citizens, industrialists, politicians, and the spying on their communications violates the fundamental right to privacy as well as the requirements of our national security. in 2012, 70% of europeans were concerned that their personal data held by private companies could be used for unknown purposes. it now seems that their fears were justified. the almost total absence of any reaction from mr barroso or mrs ashton is striking. the actions of the us authorities, with the complicity of large us companies, deserve a strong condemnation from the commission, and an immediate reaction to guarantee europeans the protection of their personal data, as well as the implementation of a right to be forgotten, despite the pressure of the paid lobbyists.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is grateful for this house’s support for the creation of a fund for european aid to the most deprived. indeed, a growing number of european citizens are facing extreme forms of poverty because of this long crisis, with severe consequences such as food deprivation and homelessness, in all member states. the political importance of this instrument goes far beyond its financial size: this is a tangible demonstration of the eu’s solidarity, and we do need a lot more demonstration of solidarity in europe today. the fead is not designed to help member states, but to help people directly. children going to school on a hungry stomach suffer equally, wherever they live. let me recall that thanks, among others, to the support of this house, the february european council agreed to maintain this fund and proposed to earmark a budget of eur 2.5 billion for it. as you may know, despite this agreement at the highest level, a group of member states continues to oppose this fund, and in particular the fact that it would cover the whole eu. some argue that the use of the fund should be made voluntary. no country, however, wants to give up its share of the envelope. clearly, such voluntary use would almost certainly make it impossible for the fund to reach the budget eventually earmarked to it. this would be a step back on eu solidarity, and something very difficult to explain to our citizens. furthermore, to the extent that it could require a notification process as suggested by some, a voluntary solution is likely to delay the implementation of the fead, putting at risk the provision of assistance during the winter 2013-2014. i understand that there are vivid discussions on this key issue in this house also. members will not be surprised if i say that, for the commission, the report as adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs would be a good starting point for a negotiation with the council.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, it was only a matter of time before the european union was awarded a nobel prize of shame when food aid was threatened in its very existence. but there was no shortage of collective disgrace for the heads of state when they proposed to cut this fund by a billion euros and to take away food from the hungry, because that is what it is all about. it is the honour of this house, i believe, to have contributed to the maintenance of this programme, and it will be the honour of the european parliament, i hope, tomorrow to send a clear message, a powerful message, an unambiguous message to the council to ask for a minimum budget of eur 3.5 billion for the fead. i believe that this is the minimum requirement for the european project to remain tenable.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i want to express my surprise that at the european council and therefore at the highest level, there was agreement in favour of maintaining this fund for aid to the most deprived , with a consensus on an allocation of 2.5 billion euros. in the committee on employment and social affairs we wanted to signal that this budget should be increased to 3.5 billion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. those in this house who are in favour of a fund of 3.5 billion euros and do not want to make it a compulsory fund are telling themselves stories. i think that after the very favourable vote in the committee on employment and social affairs on the report by our colleague mrs costello, we must here confirm a negotiating mandate on the basis of eur 3.5 billion for a compulsory fund which allows not only social inclusion but also what remains the essence of this fund, namely food aid and, where they exist, the use of agricultural surpluses. it's a political message that's essential. the european council is discovering day by day that the question of solidarity and the question of the most deprived is again becoming a political priority. it is also through the signals we will give through our vote on mrs costello's report that we will be consistent with this political awareness of the gravity of the crisis and its impact on our fellow citizens.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for more than three years we have been fighting alongside the associations to ensure that the 18 million people who receive food aid do not end up on the side of the road. we must vote today in favour of this fund, which will allow food and material goods to be distributed to the most deprived people, especially the homeless. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the text covers 28 countries of the union. meps want to see the eu's role in the fight against poverty strengthened. environmental proposals have been put forward and they are moving in the right direction. they will need support to combat waste and encourage short-circuited production and consumption. why would you do that? because good food shouldn't be a luxury, it should be a right. let us finally be honest, commissioner. we will not eliminate food poverty in europe unless we create a real safety net, particularly in terms of social protection. so i ask you very quickly: when will you implement the so-called directive on a minimum income for everyone? today, because of the crisis, we need it, and it would be a genuine european symbol, which has been eagerly awaited for so many years.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, we are pleased that we have been able to save the principle of a programme to help the most deprived. it is now necessary to ensure that mrs emer costello's report, which i should like to thank for her attention and availability, is voted on by a large majority, making it even more precise, particularly on the financial resources, which must not be less than 3.5 billion for the next seven years. we have tabled an amendment to that effect, but we are prepared to support mrs costello's amendment. we have also tabled another amendment for a sufficiently simple fund, free of administrative burdens, because these are still barriers to the real access of the poorest to the missions of this fund, particularly food. similarly, without the mandatory participation of all member states, we could not speak of european solidarity but of a europe à la carte when it comes to poverty, whereas austerity plans would be mandatory. it will also be necessary to consider transitional arrangements between the old and the new programme and to allow for the use of surplus food where it exists, particularly for fruit and vegetables. finally, i would like to stress the urgent need to put an end to the increase in poverty in europe by means of policies to secure employment and minimum incomes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a very sensitive subject, and one which is even more sensitive because of the crisis. this fund for the period 2014-2020 will be backed by the european social fund, and that is why i wish to speak as the permanent rapporteur for the european social fund. my position is clear. first, the fund must be reinstated to the tune of eur 3.5 billion because the crisis has increased its needs. this 3.5 billion is only the amount that was previously negotiated in 2006, when we were not yet affected by the crisis. the second point is that this fund can and must operate like all funds. it is not an optional fund, it is not a voluntary fund, it is a fund that must be mandatory, accessible to all countries, to all the poor in all countries. and i think we have to be extremely careful here. that's my warning. the whole of europe is watching. all our fellow citizens are looking at us, at parliament, at the political groups. the value we share is the value of social solidarity. we fought for financial solidarity. we fought for a bank solidarity. we voted for it. we voted for economic solidarity and we would deny social solidarity to our fellow citizens? no, you can't! that's not possible. i call on my group to vote for this fund to function like all funds and to ignore the blocking minorities. the blocking minority horrors, what do they want? they want the fund to end. to each his own? i don't want any of it! i want europe for all and i want solidarity for all. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i will put it simply. it is appalling and shocking that some member states dare to call into question the very principle of a european fund dedicated exclusively to helping the poorest. this is shocking and appalling for europeans who are living in extreme poverty - and their numbers are growing - for charities and for the very image of europe. yes, the fund for the poorest must be compulsory because, let us remember, the fight against poverty and social exclusion is one of the fundamental objectives of the european union. and yes, this fund must be properly endowed, that is to say, at least 3.5 billion for the coming period. my dear friends, europe is in the grip of an extremely serious crisis. it is economic, it is social, it is political, and it is, at bottom, a crisis of distrust between the peoples of europe and the european institutions. i know one thing: trust will be difficult to rebuild, but it will not be possible to do so by opening our arms to the selfishness of the member states. we shall only do this by paving the way for a genuine europe of solidarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by recalling the fight that all members of the european parliament, of all political persuasions, have waged to save the fead. i would also like to commend the decisive action of bruno lemaire, former french minister of agriculture, who managed to find a transitional solution in 2011 to allow the continuation of this aid. i also welcome the efforts of the charitable organizations, which have raised awareness among the public. finally, i thank the commission for finding the legal resources to propose the new regulation, although i regret its complexity. one hundred and sixteen million people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union. of these, some forty million suffer from acute material deprivation. some member states have tarnished europe's social image by their rigorous procedures. the report on the table today shows that they were wrong. we must be firm on the budget. i now call on all heads of state and... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. it is not normal that the european commission and the states are proposing a 40% cut in the european fund for aid to the most deprived, bringing it down to 2.5 billion euros. i hope that the eu will be the expression of a principle of solidarity between european countries and in favour of people who are in a very precarious situation. the number is increasing, partly due to the effects of the economic crisis, with 40 million people in europe suffering from deprivation. i would like the fead to have a budget of at least eur 3.5 billion over seven years and for all the member states to set aside this budget for aid to the poorest. this is a gesture that the eu must make in favour of the citizens and the amount requested by parliament is quite reasonable, it is a minimum.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow our parliament will have to vote on the creation of the european fund for the most deprived, and this will be the end of three years of uncertainty for food banks and their beneficiaries. in the face of the judgments of the court of justice of the european union and the attacks of states hostile to this form of european solidarity, the food banks and our institution have stood firm. the result of this collaboration has been that, at the stage of the parliamentary committees, this form of aid has been legally secured and its financing has been fully protected. we must transform the experiment tomorrow and send a strong message to the council by voting in favour of a budget of 3.5 billion euros, which cannot be used for any purpose other than aid to the poorest. it would indeed be cynical and intolerable for the states which have opposed the setting up of such a fund out of selfishness or ideology to be able to take the money from this fund and use it for other purposes. our vote must be a beacon of hope for the 13 million citizens who need all this european aid.
the president of slovenia. - as the president, my friend martin schulz, said, i was your colleague in the previous mandate. and to some of you, a dear personal friend. i miss you often, both personally and politically. in a political sense, by being aware that the member of the european parliament, the member of this house, has a very specific perspective in which to observe and shape our common european destiny. no one else has it. in this sense, this parliament is irreplaceable and is irreplaceable in its importance and its special character in carrying out its mission, in shaping our common destiny, that of more than half a billion of our people. mr president, with all due respect to your high office, i would like to address just one of the issues that may or, in my view, should be central in the future. which doesn't mean it's in the moment, sorry. and i will also be working with those of you who feel the same way to make sure that happens as soon as possible. this is a question of the future of the european union. as you can see, for me this question is not academic or abstract, but it is extremely topical and of strategic importance. it's a challenge now, the delays will be hard to repair. in my speech today, i would like to call for a new legal and political step towards a comprehensive deepening of the european union. now, in these european and world circumstances, not in spite of them, but because of them! the time for the first major step will probably be after the new european elections next year. my guess, and especially my wish, is that the convention on the future of europe should be re-drawn. and my wish is that it will end its work with the greatest possible political majority, perhaps even a consensus, that for the needs of tomorrow, for our common homeland, for safeguarding the peace and prosperity of our people, a new constitution is necessary. i know, i know the mood and the thinking here and i realize that some of you are against this, and you have every right to be. and i know that many of our people have doubts about this, but it's all legitimate and democratic. that is why this house, the european parliament, exists, to decide on these most fateful decisions at the crossroads of european history, which way we will go, democratically, in a tolerant, constructive dialogue, one for and one against. i'd like to take one of those positions today. in the end, people will probably want to, and we have to allow them to, have a referendum on this important issue in all the countries of the european union. this will give democratic legitimacy to such an important decision as that which might be made on the new constitution. before i give a brief justification for my position, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to mention two reasons which explain my position. first, all my political life, a quarter of a century, i have been a committed european. first and foremost, i believe in europe, in the idea of europe as a community of different nations and countries. i believe that, despite our differences, there is much more that unites us and unites us, much more: historical experience teaches us that cooperation brings peace, and peace is the basis of prosperity. and finally, the nobel prize says it all. i never converted this belief and this faith into a european idea. the best i can say is, here among friends, this one's getting stronger. after world war ii, we saw tremendous strides in advancing this idea of cooperation. the lisbon treaty was also a step forward. what i want to say today is that in my experience, this treaty will soon no longer be sufficient as a legal basis for such action to solve the problems of the people you represent here. it is not just that, ladies and gentlemen, the global financial crisis has given rise to the idea of a greater institutional strengthening of the european union and, of course, of eliminating its democratic deficit, as far as the role and significance of this house is concerned. the financial and economic crisis since 2008 and, in part, even now, has only partially fully demonstrated some of the problems we must overcome, legal and political, economic and social, in order to preserve the faith and hope of our people in this common european homeland. look, you can't have one central bank and 17 or 18 fiscal policies, you can't. we see that the european council, the commission and the parliament are trying to find ways of acting together, whether temporarily or more permanently. but, frankly, the basis for the european union's strategic action is far too unreliable in the long term if it is to maintain and strengthen its role as a global player. in politics, in economics, in human relations in today's globalized world. and secondly, in my career, as my friend mr president said, i have played a very different role, as many of you here in this room have. you're people here who have, as a rule, very long political and very necessary political experience and references. now and then, one of us goes back into national politics, that's important. having this experience from the european parliament, perhaps also my experience from the european council, when i was prime minister just at the time of the crisis that got us, by the way, completely unprepared and we practically looked for and found more or less temporary solutions from the end of 2008 to 2011 on a sometimes quite questionable legal basis, but we also had the european parliament that understood this, and you often supported or corrected the decisions of the european council. all of this helped to resolve the crisis that had struck europe. so i could see firsthand how the crisis had caught europe off guard. many of the counter-crisis measures we have taken have been taken under great pressure of time and circumstance, and in the absence of institutions that other global powers have at their disposal and use. we don't have them and we can't use them and we have a deep deficit in that. and then people point the finger at you and all of us as incompetent people, unable to meet the challenges of the times. and we don't have the means, we don't have the instruments, we don't have the right tools to do it. so let's agree that we have this in our hands and that we can meet the expectations of our people for a better tomorrow, not a worse one. as president of slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, i can say that we are still facing a crisis, but i must say, and this is not wishful thinking, that i see a greater unity of the political class, regardless of government or opposition, and that we have recently taken some dramatic decisions that have required a lot of political maturity, and let me tell you, not as some cheap propagandist, that slovenia will emerge from these problems and will once again be a star among the countries in the european union. but i must say that the crisis of principle is the crisis of confidence in all institutions, from the political to the rule of law, and that the principle is also the crisis of confidence in the european union, which was not the case in our practice before. and now we can see the first signs of euroscepticism, stronger, more pronounced in slovenia, but on the other hand there is also the belief and the attitude that we cannot do it alone, but together we can, all of us. it is our first priority to preserve this faith, and that is why i say that we cannot think about the future of the european union in years to come, when things may be a little better, because they will not be. it is time to think about this, it is time to set in motion the intellectual momentum that we witnessed at the dawn of the new millennium, when the convention on the future of europe was born. and some of you here participated in it when there was faith that we could achieve the lisbon objectives. in 2000, we wrote that three years ago we would be the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world. far from it. we are still in a deep crisis, but we have the opportunity to become one, because it allows our people to get back to work thanks to new incentives for economic growth, with financial consolidation of course, and young people to have hope and faith that they live in a country and in the european union that guarantees them a life worthy of a human being. mr president, my position on the integration of the european union and enlargement, particularly in the area of the western balkans, is therefore inspired by the internal needs of the european union and by the situation in international politics. peace, as the foundation of prosperity, can only be achieved through cooperation. the more lasting the peace and the greater the prosperity under the present circumstances, the stronger our cooperation must be. so my thesis, my message to this house and to all our people across europe is that the legacy of peace and prosperity already created can only be safeguarded and built upon in the future by deepening political and multilateral cooperation in our wider homeland. too long a delay in the current legal and political decision on this matter could seriously jeopardise this heritage. i say that as president of the lesser of two evils. it would seem more reasonable if the president of one of the major countries were to take the lead, wouldn't it? slovenia has experience with the break-up of the former yugoslavia. perhaps from that angle, i can contribute to your reflections. small countries, as much as they fear that transferring new sovereignty to brussels, to the european government, to the european parliament would mean a reduction in their autonomy, but in fact we slovenians know from our experience that this provides the conditions for us to preserve our national, cultural and all other identities and to remain part of the developed world. if all this falls apart, we alone will not be able to keep pace, technologically, scientifically, spiritually, with the most developed part of the world, only with you together can. this explains the advocacy of smaller countries and my advocacy for a more united european union. i would also like to express my wish that young people should support us in this endeavour. and here we have a very unlucky hand: a quarter of young people are unemployed and out of work, and today we only talk about the vision of a united europe, without actually explaining to young people that experience tells us that if we move forward, we can create the conditions for us to act more easily and better, and that in this way we can also take a new step in the progress of science and technology in the european union, as the united states or china or the russian federation or brazil are doing. only if they understand the meaning of this union in increasing their prosperity can we win them over to this great idea. and i'm telling you, it's worth the effort. the success of this idea is our very existence. i therefore call, if i may use this platform, mr president, i call on the european council to adopt urgently a scheme which will create new jobs for young people tomorrow, whether through investment in micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, or through education and training for young people. and here you too, ladies and gentlemen, will play an irreplaceable role when, after repeated coordination, an agreement on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 has to be reached. by the way, let's not get this all wrong. when we speak of a united europe, metaphorically, we do not mean the american concept of the melting pot. europe's strength lies in its colour, its diversity. but in order to function for the benefit of the vast majority of our community, it must, in my view, find the right new balance between respecting and upholding diversity while at the same time strengthening and promoting unity. let me say this very frankly, without wishing to be applauded by everyone: if we, the advocates of a stronger europe, remain silent now and think that we must wait for things to settle down a little, the eurosceptics will prevail. this may be their big win in the short term, but defeat will have, in my opinion, big negative long-term consequences. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to thank the european parliament. even in this mandate, you leave behind a very important trail of your decisions for the benefit of the vast majority of our people. i know it hurts you in the cities, because it's less public than you deserve. so please accept my deepest gratitude and the gratitude of the people i represent as president for your work and efforts on behalf of the vast majority of our people. i look to our common future with faith and hope and with the knowledge that the nobel peace prize may have been less a congratulatory message and more a warning, a warning to all of us and our people that peace is not something taken for granted, that it must be worked for with sacrifice every day. and that will be the only solid foundation for the well-being of our people, and that it will be so despite the colossal problems we find ourselves in, i don't want to stop believing. thank you, mr. president, for this great privilege.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are millions of people in europe who are poorly housed. housing is the first concern of european citizens and access to housing has become a battlefield for the poorest, for young people, for single-parent families. that is why this report is a real lever against the crisis. firstly, against the economic crisis because the construction and renovation sector is a sector that generates jobs, where it will be necessary to develop green sectors in particular, and therefore local jobs that cannot be relocated. it is a lever against the social crisis, which reaffirms the right to housing as a fundamental right, and it is a lever against the ecological crisis, since the fight against energy poverty is linked to the fight against climate change and allows us to help the poorest households. so today we are faced with a vote, and i have seen that, despite the large number of requests for separate votes that have been tabled, while all the compromises have been adopted in committee, i would like to remind you here of your responsibility to all our fellow european citizens. we cannot empty this report of its meaning. at a time when the european union is being criticised for being far from reality, europe must invest in social housing, because it will make a real contribution to restoring the confidence of our european citizens, but above all to improving their living conditions. i thank you and i call on all our colleagues to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. in the interest of safeguarding the biodiversity of our seas and oceans, i voted in favour of this report which sets out the european commission's detailed action for the long-term management of cod stocks. this text will make it possible, in particular, to adapt the fishing mortality rates and the levels of spawning stock biomass to scientific knowledge in order to ensure the real sustainability of our marine resources.
in writing. the objective of the report is to establish the list of competences conferred on the commission by regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 and to classify them into implementing or delegated competences. the commission shall use delegated acts to adapt the fishing mortality rates and spawning stock biomass levels to scientific knowledge. the other points will be amended by the ordinary legislative procedure. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reform of the cod stock plan, which now gives the commission the right to adapt fishing mortality rates and spawning stock biomass levels. parliament will continue to be strongly involved in any changes to the plan, in order to preserve legal certainty.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which aims to classify the european commission's competence, between delegated and implementing acts, in establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. i agree with the rapporteur's caution in adopting a stricter definition of the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts. similarly, in the context of the alignment of this regulation with the treaty of lisbon, it was necessary to add an explicit reference to the ordinary legislative procedure as the appropriate procedure for amending all or part of the plan as it is a strong vector of legal certainty.
in writing. the cod is a species that we must pay particular attention to, if we do not want to threaten its survival in our waters. it was important to provide a modernised and clear framework to adapt this regime to the lisbon treaty, with more flexibility to ensure appropriate management to prevent excessive mortality and ensure the survival of fisheries.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague diane dodds. that report concerned amendments to the 2008 regulation establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the commission's amendment proposal, while moving in the right direction, included a somewhat lax definition of the circumstances in which the commission could adopt delegated acts. it was important to add to the text an explicit reference to the use of the ordinary legislative procedure as the only means of amending any part of the plan outside the cases specifically provided for. it was a single vote and the report was adopted by 600 votes to 14, with 5 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. on tuesday i voted in favour of the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, parliament has equal competence with the council to legislate on fisheries. in this report we wanted to redefine a long-term strategy by setting the authorized volume of cod fishing according to the rate of replacement of the species by geographical area. we also want to review the method of calculating 'fishing effort' and the quotas borne by the professionals in the sector. the european union must pursue a responsible fisheries policy, but not at the expense of economic activity and its actors, which are particularly important for france.
in writing. this report aims to clarify and guide the implementation of part of the fisheries policy. the measures proposed for the framework of delegated fisheries management acts recall the primacy of the ordinary legislative procedure and therefore of parliament. in addition, they require the collection of scientific advice and that of fishermen for any changes to the measures adopted for fisheries management. these conditions, if adopted, will be the subject of case law. other the amendments made by the rapporteur improve the text. they strengthen the functioning of the institutions in a legal and democratic way. i vote for it.
in writing. the request for waiver of immunity is part of an investigation following a traffic offence. there is no indication that this accusation is intended to harm the person concerned because of his political views. i vote for the report and therefore for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. as presented, the alleged facts do not appear to justify prosecution (and therefore waiver of immunity). i'm not going to.
in writing. the request for waiver of immunity is part of an investigation following a traffic accident. i vote for the report and therefore for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by the socialist member of parliament, vicente miguel garcés ramon, which has been very largely revised by my political group, the epp, as well as by the ecr and alde. the new text stresses the importance of accurate information for european citizens when making purchases in the internal market. the report also addresses the issue of collective redress and certain aspects of passenger rights in travelling within the european union.
in writing. european household consumption, representing 56% of the eu's gdp, is a growth driver for the eu. by informing consumers of their rights or of the different retail arrangements, it would be possible to stimulate untapped growth potential. this new agenda sets out the guidelines for european consumer policy: to improve consumer and professional safety and information, to guarantee redress and to align consumer rights with the economic and social situation. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which gives consumers more tools to enforce their rights. the commission has set new targets for 2020, including improving information and redress for consumers and traders. the question of class actions was raised in this report. we have managed to keep this concept out of the report, so as to have time to reflect and to ensure that safeguards are put in place and that it is not abused as in the united states.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report which makes proactive proposals in response to the commission's roadmap for informed, sustainable and resource-efficient consumption choices. improving consumer safety and information, and aligning rights with economic and social developments, are very important aspects for me. the rapporteur raises a number of difficult questions, to which the commission will have to find answers by formulating legislative proposals: on the use of financial products by consumers, the payment of mortgage loans and the composition of the boards of directors.
in writing. it was important to me to support a better consideration of consumer rights, as they are the main driver of our european economy. the report sets out to provide consumers with more information, simplify redress procedures and achieve greater european harmonisation. this text will therefore enable our citizens to have accurate, relevant and targeted information on their rights as consumers.
in writing. putting the consumer at the heart of our actions means making the citizen the driving force of a new europe. consumer spending represents 56% of the eu's gdp and therefore plays a key role in the eu's overall economy. consumption, under favourable and unhindered conditions, contributes to the growth of the european economy. the european parliament therefore wants to ensure that the conditions are met and the obstacles removed so that the citizen can buy and consume with confidence. the commission will therefore have to take care to inform consumers better of their rights, to eliminate cross-border litigation in the case of online purchases and to guarantee the right to appeal.
in writing. like the vast majority of my colleagues, i supported the garcés ramón report. the report, adopted by 586 votes to 52, with 9 abstentions, dealt with the shaping of a new european consumer policy aimed at stimulating demand and thus increasing growth. it focused in particular on consumer and professional safety and information, as well as on ensuring that consumers have a right to a remedy and that their rights are aligned with economic and social developments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new agenda for european consumer policy. european consumers' spending in the single market accounts for 56% of eu gdp. the aim of this european policy is to strengthen consumer confidence and participation in the market. meps stressed that the eu should be able to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected from unfair competition and that the eu should be able to take action to protect consumers' rights. the new agenda therefore sets out a series of concrete measures to achieve these objectives.
in writing. the european consumer policy should be improved by 2020 to ensure consumer safety, to improve consumer and professional information and to ensure the availability of redress. i think it is particularly important to give consumers the tools they need to enforce their rights.
in writing. despite some common sense measures to promote the rights of european consumers to information and redress, this report is based on the socially devastating principles of european economic liberalism. these same principles (logic of increasing competition, forced productivism, absence of the precautionary principle, etc.) lead its authors to an intolerable contradiction: it asks europe to protect consumers from the harmful effects of competition, while asking the commission to increase competition. i cannot therefore approve this text, i am voting against.
in writing. i believe that there is a need for effective consumer protection within the european union to ensure a certain degree of consumer safety and effective judicial protection. however, this report, under the guise of establishing a set of initiatives in favour of consumers for the period 2014-2020, merely reduces consumers to economic actors in the internal market who can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, without really caring about their interests. the desire to protect european consumers should be guided by the general interest rather than being a purely economic objective. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. i supported this report because european consumers play an active role in the growth of the union: their spending accounts for more than half of the eu's gdp. in order to continue to stimulate the european economy, it is therefore important to increase consumer confidence and protection, in particular for certain sensitive products and sectors such as nanotechnologies, genetically modified organisms, financial services and the digital sector. the new agenda is more specifically concerned with dangerous products, misleading advertising, unpredictable roaming charges and illegal online practices. it will increase consumer awareness and improve consumer knowledge, safety and rights. but to achieve these objectives, collaboration between consumer associations and public institutions will be needed more than ever.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on european consumer policy. the report was a good initiative in the beginning. it gave priority to the need to protect the rights of citizens who are consumers. these were considered citizens before they were mere consumers. the text was even critical of the commission's european consumer agenda. it is regrettable that the epp and alde groups have rejected the compromise amendments and have completely changed the priorities of this report: in particular, all the references to 'social europe' have been deleted. the text also contains the fallacious argument that the deepening of competition and the internal market will improve the situation of consumers under the guise of a 'social single market'. the balance sheet of liberalization and privatization, particularly in transport and energy, shows us the consequences of the dogma of the law of the market alone. the text does not therefore protect the rights of citizens who are consumers. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the european consumer policy protects us every day by banning misleading advertising and ensuring that prices and information about our food are transparent. beyond the requirements it seems to impose on economic operators, it actually establishes the conditions for confidence between consumers and businesses, which is essential for the development of commercial activities. and it is precisely because it is an essential condition for growth that i have supported this report by making an inventory of the improvements we can make to it. the horse meat crisis has highlighted the need for improved traceability of products in order to identify responsibility immediately and to avoid any further health scandals. the financial crisis has also exposed the glaring lack of transparency on products sold by financial institutions, which have sold off consumer rights to enrich themselves. in both areas, i am sure we will be able to prevent fraud better and to provide consumers with more effective and protective remedies. the eu will be judged on the progress it makes!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my epp colleague tadeusz zwiefka which aims to improve access to justice in cross-border cases. it is necessary to approximate our laws, for example, on legal aid, so that everyone can be defended in crossborder disputes, regardless of their income level.
in writing. all member states have a system which allows persons who do not have sufficient resources to afford a lawyer to be represented before the courts (in france this is called the "avocat commis d'office"). however, the application of the system is not the same in all eu countries, which leads to complications in the event of crossborder disputes. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment and for the protection of the environment. finally, to remedy the lack of awareness of the directive, the report proposes tools for communicating the existence of legal aid in the event of a crossborder dispute.
in writing. i voted in favour of the evaluation of the directive on access to justice in crossborder cases. all member states have a system of legal aid for persons without sufficient resources. the provisions differ in all member states, which makes it difficult to access justice in crossborder disputes. the report aims to raise awareness of the existence of legal aid so that the directive is no longer widely unknown.
in writing. to enable european citizens to exercise all their rights fully, effective access to justice must be guaranteed, particularly in the case of crossborder disputes. i therefore support the ambition of making legal aid more accessible, as do all the measures aimed at informing citizens better of their rights.
in writing. while european legislation to improve access to justice in crossborder civil and commercial disputes is a step in the right direction, its implementation in the member states still needs to be improved. the harmonization of the criteria for assessing applicants for legal aid is one of the first objectives to be achieved. it will enable the persons liable to obtain a more consistent response from the authorities responsible for assessing their resources. it would therefore be useful if the requesting authority could issue a certificate attesting to the applicant's eligibility for legal aid recognised in all the member states of the union. in order to ensure better access to justice, financial assistance should also be more comprehensive and cover travel costs from the beginning of the proceedings, i.e. also for attending the hearing before the judge responsible for deciding on the possible granting of legal aid. it should of course be remembered that these improvements to help the offenders must be brought to the attention of the public and the legal profession. this is the necessary guarantee of their usefulness.
in writing. free movement within the territories of the member states is a right of every citizen and an essential condition for the functioning of the internal market. in order to guarantee respect for this right, it is essential that european citizens, and in particular the least well-off, have the possibility of accessing justice in another member state. this legislation already exists, but its application remains very uneven between member states. the european union needed to improve the current legislation so that all european citizens, regardless of their member state, could benefit from crossborder legal aid. that is why i supported this text.
in writing. since the explosion of online commerce, cross-border litigation has increased. however, while all member states have systems of legal support and advice for those who cannot afford it, these vary widely from one member state to another. however, with the crisis, citizens tend to look for cheaper consumer products on the internet, which is not necessarily accompanied by sufficient legal guarantees. access to legal aid exists, but too often this possibility is not recognised. this is why the first step in improving access to legal aid is better information and awareness among citizens. that is what this report proposes, and that is what i support.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague, mr tdeusz zwiefka, in the plenary session of 11 june. this report deals with the application of directive 2003/8/ec on access to justice in crossborder cases. this directive was largely unrecognised and the report proposes a range of measures to improve awareness of the existence of legal aid in crossborder litigation. the report also provides a series of improvements to make this aid an effective tool. i am glad that parliament has adopted it.
in writing. i supported the report on improving legal aid in crossborder civil and commercial litigation. the aim of the project is to raise awareness among european citizens of the right of access to foreign courts in cross-border litigation. we also want to improve access to this right by improving the language training of lawyers and by promoting the appointment of practitioners with competence in crossborder cases.
in writing. the zwiefka report makes some interesting points, including better information for european citizens on their rights, easier access to legal forms and the establishment of specific training for legal professionals funded by the eu. it also focuses on the most vulnerable groups and proposes solutions to the problems of random definitions of cases for aid. i vote for it.
in writing. very few citizens and professionals in the european union are aware of the rights conferred on them by directive 2003/8/ec on access to justice in crossborder cases. according to the european commission, only 12% of europeans were aware of legal aid in a cross-border context, which is still very low given the volume of cross-border trade within the eu. there is an urgent need to inform or remind citizens of their right to legal aid in crossborder civil and commercial disputes. an effective information campaign launched throughout the european union is therefore necessary. moreover, it is a question of making this legal aid effective. the creation of a specific database will make it possible to identify legal practitioners competent for cross-border litigation; the commission will also be able to provide legal aid to the victims of the crime. these guidelines, which are set out in the report, are in the right direction and that is why i voted in favour of them.
in writing. as a frontier resident, i voted in favour of this report which proposes improvements to the 2003 directive on legal aid in cross-border disputes. unfortunately, the main problem with this directive is that it is not widely recognised. according to the commission, only 12% of citizens were aware of the existence of legal aid for crossborder disputes. if citizens are not informed, how can they benefit from this right when they are confronted with the situation? the improvements requested are aimed at simplifying judicial procedures and inviting the member states and the commission to launch an effective information campaign to ensure appropriate legal support. the report calls for the creation of databases of crossborder legal practitioners and the establishment of a single authority responsible for crossborder legal aid. finally, the report calls for the possibility for citizens to claim legal aid either in the member state of residence or in the member state where the aid is needed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which establishes procedures enabling customs authorities to prevent the movement of goods which could infringe intellectual property rights. i believe that it is necessary to take all the measures that can facilitate the work of our customs officers to ensure that intellectual property is respected in europe. the report provides for a simplified procedure for all infringements of intellectual property rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which aims to modernise customs procedures to monitor the respect of intellectual property rights. procedures will be simplified, particularly in the case of small consignments of suspected counterfeit goods, which can now be destroyed without the intervention of the right holders. the aim of this report is to modernise and simplify controls on counterfeit and pirated goods, in order to improve trade in the internal market.
in writing. counterfeiting is a threat to our businesses, but also to europeans: using a counterfeit product can be a threat to our health or safety. that is why i support this text, which will improve the rules for intercepting and destroying counterfeit goods that try to enter the eu. a simplified procedure will enable customs authorities to act more quickly and efficiently.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague juergen creutzmann in the plenary on 11 june. this report dealt with the strengthening of the control of the customs authorities' respect for intellectual property rights. it also aimed to adapt existing regulatory provisions to the changing situation in this field. intellectual property rights are of fundamental importance for innovation. i am therefore pleased that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. in 2011, almost 115 million counterfeit products were discovered by european customs authorities, some of which even posed a risk to consumers' health and safety. the best way to combat this scourge and protect consumers is to prevent their entry into european territory. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which aims to establish clear rules to make it easier for customs officials to destroy illegal or dangerous goods in transit or entering the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's new rules on the control by customs authorities of the respect of intellectual property rights. the counterfeit products that reach european soil are both a threat to the health of european consumers and a significant loss of profit for our companies. customs authorities will now have simplified rules for the destruction of illegal goods in a shorter time. innovation and intellectual property are engines of growth in europe that we must protect.
in writing. counterfeiting costs european businesses more than eur 250 billion a year and poses a serious threat to the health and safety of consumers. in 2009 alone, customs authorities intercepted more than 40,000 suspicious packages representing 118 million items. in order to combat this phenomenon, which now extends beyond luxury goods, fashion, music and films, the commission must ensure that these counterfeits are stopped as they enter the european union. i supported the rapporteur's proposal on the council's position at first reading because it recognises that customs authorities have a privileged role in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy, but also because it aims to cover small packages of counterfeit goods sent by post, the overwhelming majority of which are the result of transactions carried out over the internet.
in writing. i welcome this vote which strengthens the capacity of customs officers to intercept counterfeit goods at the eu's doorstep. cigarettes, household products and toys are all counterfeit consumer goods which are illegally distributed by the millions in the eu every year and which, by exceeding our health standards, threaten the health of european citizens. these illegal copies, which come mainly from third countries, constitute unfair competition which is unfavourable to our companies and destroys thousands of jobs in europe. in a fragile economic environment, efforts must be stepped up to combat this phenomenon and protect honest european workers. one of the most effective ways of doing this is to rely on customs agents, who are ideally placed to seize and destroy counterfeit goods. we must also negotiate an agreement with our trading partners, where counterfeiting is particularly widespread, to combat this scourge more effectively. i regret that passion has outweighed reason when acta was voted on. it is the right instrument to protect us against counterfeiting and its harmful effects.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to provide better guidance on the diet of at-risk populations, particularly infants and young children. the text by my colleague, mrs frédérique ries, contains provisions for the labelling of products intended for children and limits the use of pesticides in children's food to the maximum. i spoke during the debate on this text to remind the house of the importance of the diet of athletes. the european commission will publish a report on this subject after consulting the european food safety authority (efsa).
in writing. i voted in favour of the new rules on the labelling and content of infant formulae and foods for special medical purposes. rules will be defined to better identify foods for everyday consumption and those for specific groups. new rules will be introduced on the composition of milk, cereal preparations for babies and meal replacements. an exclusive list of substances, such as vitamins and minerals, which may be added to the preparation has been established. at a time when transparency on product composition is paramount, we needed to establish rules for specific consumers.
in writing. with clearer new rules, we will be able to protect certain specific groups of consumers who need 'special' food. more clarity is good for consumers, but also good for businesses. we are thus putting an end to the fragmentation of the rules which made this market illegible. the persons concerned include infants and young children, persons with particular intolerances, or users of diet foods which replace the entire daily ration.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which, by means of legal simplification, aims to better protect european consumers of specific foods. all european citizens, whatever their specific situation, must enjoy the highest possible level of food security. for example, some citizens may not consume gluten. in order to ensure the protection of the health of our fellow citizens, gluten-free foods and dietary products will now be covered by this new legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to provide better controls on food intended for vulnerable populations. it is extremely dangerous for both the consumer and the control authorities to distinguish between food intended for everyday consumption and food intended for target groups. we are talking about infants, people who need low-calorie diets, diabetics and gluten intolerant people, the so-called celiacs, who are increasingly numerous: 1 in 100 people in the union. all these categories of people are not ordinary consumers. the regulation imposes, for example, strict compositional criteria, mandatory labelling or precautions for use for these vulnerable populations. the labelling and presentation of these foods will be more precise, clear and easy to understand for consumers.
in writing. i supported the recommendation for second reading by my colleague, mrs frédérique ries, in the plenary on 11 june. that recommendation concerned the development of a regulation to replace legislation, in particular directive 2009/39/ec, on foods intended to meet particular nutritional needs. the new regulation will clarify the rules on food for certain vulnerable people. it also aims to fill the legal gaps in the current system and to ensure that the rules on this type of food are applied in the same way in all member states. like a large majority of members, i opposed all the amendments tabled by the efd which distorted the text.
in writing. the european union has from the outset sought to establish food safety within the european territory, including rules on product labelling to inform and protect consumers. however, consumers such as infants, young children or seriously ill persons are not normal consumers and must therefore benefit from specific regulation. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which lays down stricter rules on composition and labelling and makes it easier to distinguish between foodstuffs for everyday consumption and those intended for specific groups.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on rules on the labelling and content of infant formulae and other foods for special medical purposes. in order to better protect consumers, and in particular certain vulnerable groups such as infants and the sick, parliament wanted to strengthen the quality of specific food products and their labelling in order to distinguish them better from other products.
in writing. the council text introduces some improvements compared with the commission text: the delegation of power to the commission is limited to five years (unlimited in the original text) and the member states are given the possibility of maintaining national rules on food purity that are stricter than those of the eu (article 15 (5)). however, it does not call into question the general logic of the principle, which is to base food safety and food quality criteria on the 'functioning of the internal market' and the non-distortion of competition. once again, the market is being promoted at the expense of human health and food security. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my colleague from the french epp delegation, elisabeth morin-chartier. the text now requires employers to protect their employees against the risks of electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields by setting limits on workers' exposure to these fields and by minimising or eliminating the identified risks. the text also provides for appropriate medical surveillance so that exposed workers can be treated promptly in the event of a problem being identified.
in writing. the report sets maximum exposure values - values which are determined on the basis of the impact on health and biological considerations - for workers to electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields. it also specifies the obligations of employers, appropriate medical surveillance and specific information and training for workers on risk management. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of a text which balances the protection of the health of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields with the use of electromagnetic fields when they are beneficial, thanks to the hard work of my colleague elisabeth morin chartier. in fact, in a number of cases, their use is necessary for european citizens, particularly in medical matters. this directive protects the health of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields in all sectors of activity. we have also made arrangements for all workers to be informed and trained on the dangers of electromagnetic fields. finally, we have set up medical surveillance of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields. we also helped to define the harmful effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields on workers, in particular by calling for greater consideration of risk groups and, in particular, pregnant women.
in writing. with these new rules, we are giving ourselves the means to protect the health and safety of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields. the exposure values are revised, and we increase the responsibility of the employer, who must better assess these risks and take appropriate measures to reduce them. at the same time, we do not jeopardise the use of certain technologies, such as magnetic resonance imaging (mri) or military applications.
in writing. according to who studies, prolonged exposure to electromagnetic fields can be harmful to health. at the same time, there is no denying the tremendous progress in medicine through the use of these electromagnetic fields to make diagnoses. a balance must therefore be struck between more effective protection of workers' health with a more stringent system of exposure limit values and the possibility of derogations, particularly for the medical and military sectors. the long-term health effects of electromagnetic fields are still poorly understood, even though they are increasingly used in everyday life. the commission will be responsible for monitoring scientific progress on the subject and adapting european legislation accordingly. it's a precautionary principle at its best.
in writing. this text guarantees greater protection for workers who are exposed to electromagnetic fields in the course of their work. the health of people who use, for example, high-frequency welding machines or induction furnaces in their work is threatened every day. that is why the european parliament had to propose a text to prevent the risks associated with exposure to these electromagnetic fields. employers will now have to respect this legislation and take responsibility for the best possible protection of their employees.
in writing. i voted against the report by ump mep elisabeth morin-chartier on the safety of workers exposed to electromagnetic waves. the report leaves the door open to derogations concerning the level of protection of workers. if the report provides for sensory effects exposure limit values, these may be exceeded 'where justified by practice or treatment'. it's hard to find a more extensive exemption. this leaves employers far too much room for manoeuvre to ensure that the directive actually benefits employees. this agreement goes far beyond what the mri alliance wanted to achieve (medical sector waiver), now offering a large number of industry-wide waivers at the national level if a member state wishes to use them. this report is a missed opportunity to improve the protection of workers, once again the interests of large companies have prevailed in a european parliament, for the moment, with a right-wing majority.
in writing. we adopted the report on the protection of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields by a large majority, with 594 votes in favour, 40 against and 28 abstentions. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on energy, research and technology, i welcome these results. the old 2004 directive needed to be revised urgently. the limit values for exposure to electromagnetic fields would have limited the use of mri. yet, it is a vital tool in the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases. the medical community will now have an exemption from the exposure limit values for the use of mri. through this exemption, the report takes a balanced approach which will ensure a high level of protection for workers and support european research.
in writing. electromagnetic fields can have a negative impact on the health of citizens, which is why it is necessary to protect workers who are particularly exposed to them effectively. nevertheless, their use is becoming indispensable in certain fields, such as medicine and the military. i therefore voted for this text because it strikes a perfect balance between the worker's exposure and the need to use physical agents. it provides for limits on exposure to electromagnetic fields in accordance with international standards, while allowing a certain degree of flexibility for the sectors which use them.
in writing. on tuesday i supported the report on the safety and health requirements for workers' exposure to risks from physical agents. the parliament is thus seeking to improve the protection of workers by establishing strict safety limits and procedures for exposure to electromagnetic fields. in addition, the magnetic resonance imaging (mri) technique used in hospitals for medical purposes was exempted from these common rules. given the importance of mri in the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases on the one hand, and the many safety procedures put in place by hospital members on the other, we considered it legitimate to exclude mri from the scope of this text.
in writing. the text adopted strikes a good balance between improving the protection of workers from electromagnetic fields and their use in the military or health field. employers are required to assess and reduce risks by, for example, choosing equipment.
in writing. workers' exposure to electromagnetic fields is a major occupational and public health issue. however, after 10 years of negotiations, the standardisation was suspended and a new document was discussed without consulting the esc. it is understandable that relaxation of the rules for the use of mri for medical purposes is necessary and the parliament's report specifies the conditions under which a derogation is possible, but not to the extent of lowering the previous standards. on the other hand, there is no reason why nato should benefit from a special regime, which is a derogation from european common law. this privilege granted to north american military imperatives in europe is intolerable. i cannot vote for a text which provides for such a derogation. i vote against it.
in writing. electromagnetic fields can have various effects on the body: skin reactions, discomfort, visual disturbances, etc. some workers are particularly exposed to it, which can put their health at risk. therefore, it is necessary to protect them particularly against excessive exposure to electromagnetic fields. i supported the agreement reached with the council on new rules to protect european workers exposed to electromagnetic fields more effectively. the new provisions, incorporating the new international limits, apply to all sectors of activity but more specifically to workers exposed to high risk, such as those working in the steel industry, or to persons working long hours in the vicinity of television and radio broadcasting installations and radar installations. some flexibility is provided for the military and medical imaging (mri) sectors. employers are obliged to assess and reduce the risks faced by workers. i welcome the adoption of these new rules, which i believe are balanced and ensure a high level of protection for workers at risk. i call on the council of ministers to formally adopt this agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier which sets minimum safety and health standards for workers exposed to electromagnetic fields. the proposal introduces a distinction between exposure in the low frequency range (0 hz to 100 khz) and exposure in the high frequency range. these new rules apply to all sectors of activity and in particular to workers exposed to high risks, such as those in the steel industry or radar installations. the directive replaces a 2004 text that could never be implemented because of its rigidity on mri (magnetic resonance imaging) which, despite their high emissions, are essential to modern medicine.
in writing. in order to safeguard the biodiversity of our seas and oceans, i voted in favour of this report, which amends a 2008 regulation establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the text clarifies the calculation procedures for determining the amount of cod that fishermen can catch (called total allowable catch or tac) through a more flexible approach. member states will also have to address the problem of fish discards at sea.
in writing. the objective is to establish a long-term management plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting these stocks. it is necessary to amend the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 in the light of the evaluation carried out by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf). the possibility for member states to revise the calculation of fishing effort upwards will be changed, as will the issue of discards at sea, which will be controlled more closely according to the risk factor. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reform of the cod stock plan, which now gives the commission the right to adapt fishing mortality rates and spawning stock biomass levels. following the evaluation carried out by the scientific committee for fisheries, the proposal for a regulation aims to solve the problems of the current legislative framework, in particular by strengthening controls and penalties on discards and by establishing reference values for the calculation of fishing effort.
in writing. improving our long-term plans for cod is a good thing, which will benefit not only the species but also european consumers. by preserving the diversity of our fisheries, we safeguard our well-being and our heritage for future generations.
in writing. in recent years, cod stocks in the northern waters of the union have declined dramatically, and it was then essential to put in place fishing restrictions to encourage the recovery of this species. however, the implementation remains incomplete and ineffective. that is why i voted in favour of this text which aims to make the current cod fishing legislation more effective. i also think it is necessary that this text should in future be included in the framework of multi-fisheries or multi-species plans in order to deal with the question of the marine ecosystem as a whole.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague diane dodds in the plenary on 11 june. that report concerned the amendments to be made to the 2008 regulation establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, in the light of the evaluation of the plan by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries. it clarified the provisions of the regulation which were considered problematic during the committee's evaluation. it was a single vote and the report was adopted by 592 votes to 71, with 15 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i supported the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. since the treaty of lisbon, parliament has been a co-legislator with the council on the common fisheries policy. in view of the mixed assessment of recent scientific analyses of the impact of the 2008 council regulation on the management of cod stocks, the current plan does not deliver the expected results. parliament therefore decided to strengthen and extend scientific cooperation in the fisheries sector in order to establish a long-term plan more suited to the needs and specificities of the geographical areas concerned by cod fishing.
in writing. the report proposes, in the context of the failure of the cod management plan in the north sea, to provide an interim solution pending the implementation of a mixed fisheries management plan, as provided for in the cfp reform. the proposed amendments seek to break the deadlock. they represent the new fisheries management enshrined in the reform, which involves the participation of scientists, fishermen and associations. i do not agree with several amendments, which leave the door open to fraud. however, the resource is getting better and the worst is never sure! the plan is provisional, will be subject to scientific monitoring and will involve the responsibility of fishermen. i choose to trust the players in the sea world until the next evaluation. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which 'proposes a guide for more effective european and national legislation on the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering'. these illegal and criminal activities benefit from the erasure of borders within the european union, and a strong, coherent and coordinated response is absolutely necessary to combat these scourges. the text certainly provides answers to these criminal activities by proposing, for example, a common definition of organised crime.
in writing. the report identifies the priorities that will form the basis for the development of the roadmap to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the fight against crime is all the more difficult now that it is transfrontier, which requires coordinated police and judicial action by the states and the harmonization of their legislation. the report also stresses that more flexible and accountable public administration, faster and more credible criminal justice, and more transparent banking and business systems would help fight corruption and send a positive signal to european citizens. in view of the points made in the report, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen crossborder judicial and police cooperation in eu countries, but also with third countries, in order to protect the eu's financial interests against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. we have agreed on a definition of the crime of participation in a mafia-type organisation and the abolition of banking secrecy, with the aim of depriving criminal organisations of their financial resources.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the mid-term report of the crim special committee on organised crime, money laundering and transparency. for the first time, the european parliament is tackling these vital problems, both economically and democratically. in concrete terms, by proposing a common definition of mafia-type criminal activity, we will be able to combat it better. the creation of a 'european public prosecutor's office for the protection of the eu's financial interests' is another relevant means to this end. simplifying the rules on confiscation of criminal assets will also cut the grass under the feet of outlaws. the report also proposes that anyone convicted of corruption, money laundering or any other serious offence against public authorities should be excluded from any tendering procedure in the union. i therefore welcome these strong proposals, which would have a real impact on the lives of european citizens.
in writing. organized crime is changing, and our responses must change just as quickly. this is a huge challenge and i welcome the work of the special committee on this. i support the idea that a more effective fight against crossborder crime requires first and foremost a harmonious, more coherent and clearer legal framework to develop our common action. i particularly support the inclusion in this text of the importance of satellite imagery in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. the income from international criminal activities represents 3.6% of global gdp, while corruption in eu member states amounts to 1% of eu gdp, the equivalent of the european budget. this international organised crime, which covers a wide range of activities, such as drug trafficking, human exploitation, corruption and money laundering, is a complex reality which requires a concerted and comprehensive strategy by the union and the member states. firstly, it is vital to improve transparency, in particular through increased cooperation between the judicial and police authorities of the member states and the community agencies, as well as with the authorities of the third countries involved. secondly, we must put an end to the banking secrecy that enables some organizations to launder money from their criminal activities. finally, deterrent sanctions must be applied to those responsible for these crimes, both in terms of criminal sentences and the amount of fines, and states must be encouraged to develop effective legal instruments to enforce them. the harmonization of sentences at community level and greater cooperation between the prison systems of the member states will make it possible to offer a higher and fairer level of protection to citizens throughout the european territory.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it will allow for better cooperation between member states in the fight against organised crime. it is important to act now to ensure that mafia organizations gain ground in southern europe and create a climate of terror. in practice, the text proposes to strengthen police cooperation and to give greater support to new technologies. the implementation of the report will make our citizens live in greater security.
in writing. not everything in mr iacolino's report is bad, particularly the strengthening of police and judicial cooperation and the proposal to hit criminals in the pocket by systematically seizing their assets. but there are also some surprising things: fighting illegal immigration by relaxing immigration rules, or demanding deterrent sanctions... which would leave the bulk of the alternative sentences to imprisonment. and as always when the european union's policies have had negative consequences or are a clear failure, we need more europe: a harmonization of criminal law and procedure in defiance of national judicial traditions, a unification of prison policy, the creation of a european prosecutor's office, a european fbi, a european intelligence service... finally, it is a pity that mr iacolino has not drawn any conclusions from his lucid observation: organised crime has taken full advantage of the abolition of internal frontiers and globalisation, in particular the free movement of capital which facilitates money laundering. he's not proposing anything against it. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. organised crime, corruption and money laundering threaten the eu's economy, democracy and the lives of eu citizens and those in developing countries. i abstained on this report because, although the crim committee's text clearly highlights the links between organised crime and tax havens, and the need to set up registers of lobbies, which is a very useful instrument for transparency, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it does not provide a convincing answer to the challenges of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. we cannot oversimplify the various threats and recommend an approach based solely on repression and surveillance.
in writing. organised crime, corruption and money laundering in the european union are plagues that are eating away at europe, along with violence, insecurity, etc. in order to put a stop to these phenomena, parliament has for the first time expressed its opinion on these matters by adopting the interim report of the crim parliamentary special committee, which recommends the drawing up of a european union strategy and the adoption of binding legal instruments at european level and in the member states. there is an urgent need to act because, beyond economic considerations, organised crime is a danger that threatens the freedom and security of all european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this mid-term report because it offers a useful roadmap for better tackling organised crime, corruption and money laundering in a homogeneous way in the european union. while this phenomenon costs about 770 billion euros a year, of which 120 billion euros are spent in europe alone, we need to have more effective means to stop it. from the preventive freezing of the assets of criminal organisations before the individuals are convicted, to the banning of access to public procurement by mafia organisations, to the five-year ban on access to electoral mandates for persons convicted of corruption, all avenues must be explored to end the impunity enjoyed by these criminals. european coordination in this area will certainly have added value, which should not be overlooked.
in writing. i supported the interim report by my colleague salvatore iacolino at the plenary session on 11 june. the report focused on the definition of priorities for the development of a roadmap to effectively combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering in europe and worldwide. this report was adopted by a very large majority. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the revenues from international criminal activities amount to 3.6% of global gdp. within the european union, corruption alone costs about 1% of european gdp. action is then necessary to protect the financial interests of the union against such organised crime. the text i voted for is in line with this, by giving a common definition of organised crime in the member states and by combating bank secrecy, which allows criminal organisations to place money without being controlled. the strengthening of crossborder judicial and police cooperation, provided for in the text, between eu countries but also with third countries will make it possible to combat mafia-type crime more effectively at european level and more generally at global level.
in writing. on tuesday i voted in favour of the report on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which is a major issue in europe. since the era of globalisation, these illicit activities have grown exponentially and represent a serious threat to the stability of the european economy, our society and our institutions. therefore, in the face of this global threat, the union must provide a collective response by coordinating european and national legislation to combat these crimes and illegal practices. parliament therefore decided to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european level and to ensure greater protection for whistleblowers, witnesses and informers of mafia crimes. finally, we call for the abolition of banking secrecy to cut off the financial resources of criminal organizations and to put an end to this scourge.
in writing. this report identifies quite well the causes of the contemporary development of organised crime in connection with globalisation and the opening of borders induced by the eu. it proposes some effective concrete solutions, such as lifting banking secrecy or imposing sanctions on banks that are complicit in money laundering. but the report is essentially based on the commission's initiative to harmonize definitions and procedures in the fight against organised crime and money laundering. in the present state of the treaties, this harmonization can only lead to a new wave of deregulation, which in fact makes it easier for organised crime to operate. on the contrary, an effective fight against money laundering requires that the free movement of capital be called into question, which is not assumed in this report. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. this report calls for enhanced international cooperation between member states, the european union, the united nations and the oecd to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the measures recommended are guided by the intensification of controls and repression. however, the report seems to forget that such breaches are often difficult to detect because they are embedded in opaque circuits. this opacity is likely to worsen as the financial circuits used by laundered funds become more and more complex. this will make these measures inadequate and difficult to implement. i also regret that this report does not deal with the question of preventive measures, which are useful means, which will make it possible in the long term to curb corruption by bringing about a change in mentality. i therefore call for more prevention and have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. organised crime is a threat to the european economy and society. this phenomenon has changed considerably in recent years: economic globalisation and new technologies have helped to establish organised crime as a player in the world economy. indeed, according to the latest commission estimates, the proceeds of criminal activities represent 3.6% of global gdp, while the cost of corruption in the eu reaches 1% of european gdp. an appropriate policy response coupled with a prevention effort is essential. i therefore voted in favour of this report which calls on the commission to present a coherent legislative framework to combat organised crime. this is illustrated by a clear definition of these crimes, the end of banking secrecy, and a strengthening of police and judicial cooperation, both at european and global level. these strategies should be complemented by action to raise awareness among citizens, while promoting a culture of legality.
in writing. i voted against this report on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. apart from the many common features, it offers little new insight into the phenomenon of organised crime. it pretends to discover its transnational and international dimension, without saying anything at the same time about the root causes of the birth and development of mafias, namely the inability of the states to fulfil their royal functions and to guarantee access to public services for all. overall, this report still supports the same purely security vision without taking into account the need and importance of preventive measures or the actions of civil society, which are nonetheless decisive as shown by the action of the anti-mafia citizen movements in italy. finally, i could not but oppose a text combining trafficking and immigration in its part on the management of maritime borders, and calling for an increase in the funds allocated to europol, eurojust and frontex, whose role in building the fortress europe is well known to be decisive.
in writing. unlike some of my group who abstained on this text, i decided to follow the opinion of the french epp delegation in voting in favour of this report on social housing in the eu. i believe that european citizens have a right to access to decent and affordable housing. social housing provides this access, and is especially important in times of economic crisis. our delegation voted in favour of including middle-class households in social housing programmes. i have, however, been keen to make amendments to this text, for example voting against the creation of a european housing observatory.
in writing. at a time when more than three million people are poorly housed in france, and when the negative impact of poor housing on health and social inclusion is recognised, the vote on karima delli's report is an important step forward in recognising the right to housing and towards taking account of the problem in all member states. the report highlights key issues such as access to social housing for the middle classes, women and families with children and the elderly. these should not be reserved for a few particular groups. i also welcome the emphasis on quality of life, energy poverty, the need to ensure social diversity and the consideration of ecological factors in construction. energy efficiency is a matter of building and renovating homes. another major aspect of this report is the insistence on maintaining funding for social housing in europe. it's a political priority. it is a necessity today, even as the private sector struggles to provide enough low-cost housing.
in writing. social housing is an essential component of the european housing stock, although the stock of social housing varies from one country to another: 25 million people are in social housing. in europe, social housing allows europeans to get affordable housing. the report highlights that social housing has a positive impact on other social issues: integrating marginalised groups, meeting the needs of young people, dependent people, the elderly, reducing discrimination and promoting health. in view of these factors, i voted in favour of the report on social housing in the european union.
in writing. investing in social housing is a real way to fight poverty and promote social inclusion and cohesion. social housing therefore fully meets the objectives of the european union's 2020 strategy while public authorities remain free to define the organisation and financing of the social housing sector and the categories of eligible households, i supported the idea that policies on investment in social housing should be integrated into the eu's economic and budgetary governance policies and examined during the european semester. we cannot rule out any solution to finance social housing, whether through financial instruments supported by the european investment bank or by maintaining reduced vat rates or other appropriate legal mechanisms. meeting the need for affordable housing, particularly in densely populated urban areas, will also facilitate access to jobs in large cities and create high-quality green jobs that are not offshoring, through the development of green building and renovation pathways to make housing less energy intensive.
in writing. after amending the text in the committee on employment and social affairs, in particular to emphasise the role of local and regional authorities and the subject, i supported the european parliament resolution on social housing. the resolution highlights the essential role of social housing in europe: it is not only an important instrument of social cohesion and diversity, but also a key social buffer in times of economic crisis. social housing must therefore be protected from the competition policy of the european commission. i therefore welcome the reference in the report to article 14 and protocol 26 of the tfeu, which enshrine the principle of the wide discretion of national and regional authorities in the provision, financing, implementation and organisation of their services of general economic interest. in this context, the european parliament resolution appropriately recalls that the choice of eligible homes is the responsibility of the competent public authorities.
in writing. while i obviously support a high ambition for access to housing and in particular social housing, i am not sure that the european level is always the most appropriate for finding the best solutions in this area. it seemed to me that the report did not always respect this balance. that is why i did not wish to vote for it.
in writing. recognition of the right to housing in eu primary law is essential for the respect of other fundamental rights. it is therefore up to the national authorities to make it effective by improving universal access to housing, in particular for the most disadvantaged. today, the shortage of social housing and the economic difficulties caused by the crisis deprive some citizens of this right by preventing them from having adequate, decent, healthy and affordable housing. it's an emergency. the union must put in place an ambitious social inclusion strategy to put an end to the situation of the homeless. this policy must be directed at all european citizens, not forgetting those who are often excluded from the social package. it is imperative that housing authorities draw up lists of priority persons, including single mothers. housing policy must also promote social diversity in order to combat spatial segregation and ghettoization effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which recalls that the social housing sector can be a lever to get out of the economic and social crisis that european citizens are experiencing today. in its founding treaty, the european union is social and aims to combat social exclusion. it is unacceptable in this sense that in 2010 5.7% of the european population was homeless. all european citizens should have access to decent and affordable housing. it was then necessary for the european parliament to highlight the importance of social housing for the social inclusion of some european citizens as well as for the revival of economic growth. i would like to remind you, however, that the organisation of this sector remains a national responsibility.
in writing. ms delli succeeds in talking about tensions in the housing market and the lack of social housing without ever mentioning mass immigration as one of the reasons. a little over 100 000 social housing units are built in france each year. but at the same time, 200,000 new immigrants arrive, the equivalent of a city like rennes or grenoble, most of whom meet the priority allocation criteria, financial or family. and they are in direct competition with a population that is rapidly impoverishing because of the crisis and the policies dictated by brussels. 800,000 requests a year are not met. but in any case, housing, social or otherwise, is not a matter for the european union, even if it interferes under the pretext of distorting competition, with the results we know in sweden and the netherlands. or through the eu 2020 programme, which advocates the fight against poverty through the disintegration of national social systems. the whole of mrs delli's report is to give the commission a view on the levels of investment in the sector, the priorities for allocation, the rules for fixing rents... in the meantime, we must have a genuine european policy on this matter! this is a failure.
in writing. today, poor housing is on the rise in europe. young people, retired people and single-parent families are the first to be affected by this phenomenon. prices of private housing have skyrocketed everywhere, exposing more and more europeans to poverty. to respond to these ills, investing in social housing must therefore become a priority. this is a prerequisite for overcoming the crisis and reducing poverty by 2020, as the european union has committed itself to do. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution which clearly identifies the causes of poor housing and provides concrete solutions. in this battle against poverty, the member states are naturally in the front line, but the european institutions and in particular the commission must play a leading role. the commission should in particular promote exchanges of good practice between member states and implement the european strategy to combat homelessness adopted by parliament in september 2011. this is a first step which should be taken as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on social housing in the european union. a substantial supply of social housing in the european union would help to limit the collateral effects of the housing cycles and the bubble phenomena affecting the economies of our member states. the right to housing is a fundamental right and access to housing for the most vulnerable populations must be promoted. new investment in this area represents a significant economic, social and environmental leverage at a time when more than 80 million europeans are at risk of poverty. parliament has clearly expressed its support for the report. the introduction of minimum quotas and new rules on transparency in the allocation of housing are measures we have approved which will help to anticipate the negative consequences of housing bubbles.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague karima delli in the plenary on 11 june. the report was intended to develop a european policy on social housing. access to housing is a fundamental right in the european union. in addition, investment in social housing has the beneficial effect of reducing the risk of housing bubbles. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on social housing in the european union. in addition to the need to promote social inclusion, social housing is an important economic lever as it boosts the construction sector and reduces the energy bill through energy-efficient housing.
in writing. social housing policies play an important role in combating child and household poverty. due to the current economic crisis, the market is increasingly unable to meet the demand for affordable housing, especially in densely populated urban areas. in view of this, member states should invest in the construction and adaptation of affordable social housing.
in writing. in the liberal ocean of europe, this report proposes to develop social housing and denounces the consequences of austerity on it. it advocates a universal concept of social housing, in line with the republican tradition of the french. this is going in the right direction. i doubt that the european commission should be asked to propose a definition of social housing that would be binding on all. but i do take note of the intention in this report to support and develop social housing. i vote for it.
in writing. access to housing is a basic human right. however, a growing number of europeans are now in an alarming situation: the number of homeless people in the union is estimated at over 3 million, and nearly 18% of europeans live in overcrowded, unhealthy or unsuitable housing. behind these figures are millions of citizens in precarious situations, threatened by social exclusion and extreme poverty. it is therefore clear that the housing market is failing to provide decent and affordable housing for all, and that in these times of crisis, the development of new social housing is more necessary than ever. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution of the european parliament, which calls on the public authorities to react and develop social housing to protect the most vulnerable.
in writing. the current economic and financial crisis has exacerbated the shortage of affordable social housing and it is estimated that 10% of households spend more than 40% of their income on housing. in the face of the proliferation of national austerity measures and the increase in housing and energy costs, it was important that the european union proposed measures. i voted in favour of this report because it offers some relevant ideas. for example, the social housing sector can provide economic stimulus through the construction and renovation of buildings. at the same time, it can meet the energy challenge of the europe 2020 strategy by increasing the number and improving the accessibility of sustainable buildings.
in writing. − the right to housing is recognised in the charter of human rights, the revised european social charter of the council of europe and the constitution of the republic of latvia. at the same time, there are several possible options in europe for how and by whom social housing is organised for the population concerned. the report 'social housing in the european union' offers detailed solutions to problems which vary considerably from one member state to another and are therefore not equally applicable to all member states. with the economic and financial crisis, many europeans faced problems such as unemployment and consequently were unable to make regular mortgage payments. however, when drafting legislative acts at eu level, it is necessary to consider whether they will achieve their objectives better than by leaving the specific problems to the member states. as housing is not an eu exclusive competence, the management of this area should be left to member states which are better informed about their national situation. in making its recommendations and providing solutions to problems, the ep must take account of the planned multiannual eu budget for 2014-2020. it is therefore not acceptable to finance, for example, the establishment of a housing monitoring centre, which would be responsible for statistical data collection and research into energy poverty issues, as envisaged in the proposal. the allocation should be used to the maximum extent possible to restore the economy and reduce unemployment. i believe that the report contained a number of positive proposals, but i abstained on the basis that a number of proposals infringe the principles of responsibility and subsidiarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on social housing. the effects of the crisis, prolonged by the social consequences of austerity policies, make access to housing increasingly difficult. almost 120 million europeans are now at risk of poverty and only 25 million have access to social housing. the right to housing is, however, a fundamental right, recognised by the eu charter of fundamental rights. it is therefore urgent to ensure that there is sufficient supply of affordable, quality social housing to cope with health risks, just as it is urgent to combat energy poverty. greater use of the structural funds is not only necessary but indispensable. the creation of a european observatory to facilitate access to housing can give greater visibility to this sad reality. i regret that concrete measures such as the requisitioning of empty houses or price controls by the states are not being discussed. this resolution, adopted by a large majority, is, however, a strong signal to the commission and the member states that action should be taken rapidly in favour of social housing.
in writing. i supported this report which rightly points out that progress is still needed in relation to gender equality. voluntary mobility is of particular importance in our europe without frontiers, because it creates a common identity; however, women have less access to it than men. this is a further objective to be achieved, alongside equal pay, careers, pension rights and parttime work, which are much more difficult for women than for men. the report calls on the commission to pay attention to all these issues and to put in place real measures, such as a 40% quota of women among non-executive members of the boards of directors.
in writing. labour mobility and the recognition of qualifications are essential to the smooth functioning of the single market, as the europe 2020 strategy recalls and underlines. the announcement of this new strategy for europe highlighted the essential nature of women's mobility - both educational and professional - for the effective functioning of the single market. by 2020, 75% of women will have to be integrated into the labour market, according to the targets set by the europe 2020 strategy. in view of the points made in the report, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which underlines the importance of women's mobility as a means of increasing the efficiency of the single market and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to bring 75% of women with a work-related capacity into the labour market by 2020. as commissioner reding had proposed, i voted in favour of quotas for women on company boards as regards non-executive directors.
in writing. promoting the mobility of women, both in their education and in their working lives, is to make the most of what the single market can offer us. but if we really want to encourage this mobility, we will have to tackle directly what is hindering it today: i am talking of course about the barriers that women encounter in their daily work, which prevent them from reconciling it with their personal life, for example. i welcome the fact that my proposals to combat parttime work have been incorporated in this report and i will continue to be involved.
in writing. the right to live and work in another eu member state is a fundamental freedom that the eu must guarantee to its citizens. at a time when more and more people are struggling to fit into the labour market, this right to professional and educational mobility must be accessible to all, especially women. as they are often forced to leave the labour market temporarily and are strongly affected by the economic crisis, this right to mobility is all the more essential for their reintegration into the labour market. in this sense, the eu and the member states have a responsibility to promote the increase in female activity, one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in the context of the development of policies in the fields of education, social integration, reconciliation of work and family life, migration, employment, or the fight against poverty. it is therefore imperative that governments, administrations, employers and citizens themselves remove barriers to mobility and take full advantage of the benefits of the internal market.
in writing. while the lisbon strategy target of 60% female employment is still far from being achieved, investing today is essential to ensure that women have wider access to the labour market in the future. that is why i supported this own-initiative report, because part of the solution also lies in better adapting our education and training systems, which still have too many gaps. all citizens have the right to a satisfactory level of education, to renew their knowledge and to acquire new skills in the course of their working life. but we know that for women who temporarily leave the labour force on maternity or parental leave, a high level of training is essential for a rapid reintegration into the labour market. in addition, particular attention should be paid to the social and legal protection of women who work in precarious conditions and who are often the most vulnerable and exposed to exploitation by rogue employers, wherever they are in europe.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague licia ronzulli at the plenary session on 11 june. this report highlighted the need to raise awareness of the situation of women of different age groups in the context of the union's policies on educational and occupational mobility. the report called on states to collect and analyse data on the difficulties of women's mobility and to improve the detection and correction of violations of women's rights in the labour market and to punish them effectively. it was a single vote and the report was adopted by 419 votes to 200, with 49 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. as the epp rapporteur on the recognition of professional qualifications in europe in the imco committee, i was very interested in the report on the educational and professional mobility of women in the femm committee. in order to better meet the new requirements of the labour market and to improve the mobility of women, we want to increase the continuing training during the professional career of this group of people. learning foreign languages is part of this overall objective of raising the level of education, which is conducive to the employability, adaptability and mobility of people on the european labour market. women who temporarily leave the labour force to become mothers or raise children will benefit from these measures when they return to work.
in writing. educational and professional mobility is a major way of understanding european citizenship and contributes to skills development and integration into the single market. however, there are still significant differences between men and women. it is important that women benefit from intra-european mobility as much as men, that they are aware of the mobility opportunities available to them, and that they have easy access to such options.
in writing. this report provides a timely insight into some of the specific problems faced by migrant workers (human trafficking, part-time work, discrimination in recruitment, etc.). it completely ignores the dangers of forced labour mobility, however, by presenting mobility as a necessarily positive asset for employees. it is silent on the issues of guaranteeing and harmonizing pay which should surround this mobility, at a time when the posting of workers leads precisely to widespread social dumping. apart from his vows to limit parttime work, he does not foresee any measures to combat precariousness. this is often the result of the occupational mobility encouraged by the report, of which women are the first victims. i therefore abstain on this report, which, despite its good intentions, offers far too few solutions.
in writing. more women than men are pursuing higher education in europe; in 2011, women had obtained 59% of the diplomas awarded. however, their mobility is still less than that of humans. it is therefore necessary to promote it by making women more aware of their rights and the opportunities offered by mobility. freedom of movement is a fundamental value of the european union, since the treaties of 1957 guarantee the right to live and work in another eu country. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes constructive ways of promoting the educational and professional mobility of women in the eu, such as the mutual recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications, the strengthening of the fight against trafficking in human beings, or the improvement of women's access to information on their rights and those of their family members.
in writing. despite efforts to improve the status of women in the european union, many challenges remain. according to the latest available figures, the female unemployment rate is 10.7% in the eu (22.7% for women under 25) and women's wages are on average 16.4% lower than men's. several other obstacles persist, such as too much discrimination in the labour market which hinders women's career and professional development. the ronzulli report calls on the commission and the member states to combat all discrimination against women at work and to adopt all the necessary measures to enable them to reconcile family and working life. i voted for this report because i am convinced that more efforts are needed to make europe the driver of women's educational and professional mobility.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on a strategy for a télétéléchargement service and a vignette system for light vehicles in europe. i consider that the european telephone toll service (ets) has not been a success and must therefore be revised. it is therefore necessary for the european commission to come back to the european parliament with a new legislative proposal to correct this necessary system and thus improve the mobility of european citizens. i am also sensitive to the particular attention paid by my colleague jim higgins, the rapporteur on this text, to ensuring that data is respected and that users' privacy is protected.
in writing. the figures show that the set system has far from fulfilled the objectives that were set, leading the european commission to present a new legislative proposal. the report highlights some of the elements which will ensure the efficiency of the set system: data protection, the use of online payment systems, the reinforcement of the 'polluter pays' principle, and the reduction of administrative burdens on motorists, smes and transport operators. another key point is the opposition between tolls and time-based pricing. the latter does not reflect the actual use of the road by road users, unlike tolls. these elements will eventually make it possible to significantly improve the set system for the benefit of users, and i therefore voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. i voted in favour of a european toll service to complement the existing national services in the member states. the european system of telenovelas is still at an impasse, so this report proposes a new approach based on a more efficient online payment system and a reinforcement of the polluter-pays and user-pays principle. there are still too many technical barriers between the different national toll networks, so it is necessary to take the time to rethink the system so that providers find an economic interest in the establishment of a generalised european system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the higgins report because i agree with its findings on the inefficiency of the european telenetwork system and its call on the commission to come forward with a new proposal on this subject. this is a subject that is close to my heart, and i believe that more compelling safeguards need to be put in place to ensure data and privacy protection. the european system of tolls should operate on the basis of the 'polluter pays' and 'user pays' principles, as these reflect the actual use of roads, reducing the risk of discrimination. finally, like the rapporteur, i believe it is essential to reduce the administrative burden for carriers, smes and motorists and to increase transparency through the use of online payment systems.
in writing. strengthening the interoperability of tolls is a matter of course if free movement in europe is to be a reality. i particularly support the emphasis on the potential benefits of using gnss technologies, for example to reduce traffic congestion. it is also essential to ensure that this will not impose additional burdens on transport undertakings and smes.
in writing. the european union is at the forefront of road pricing and toll systems but does not yet have a european system of tolls, which would make life easier for many europeans. the european union's thinking on setting up such a system is therefore in the right direction. it will, however, have to be based on open and public standards. interoperability between the national systems of the member states and transparent and proportionate pricing for users and satisfactory for operators are essential conditions for its proper functioning. in this context, pricing based on distance rather than time, which does not reflect road use with sufficient precision, should be favoured and generalized at european level.
in writing. i supported this text which calls for harmonisation of telenovelas at european level. in some member states, the toll system is still very discriminatory because to use the motorways of these member states, every citizen must buy an annual ticket even if he comes to the territory of that state only once a year. it was therefore necessary to introduce a less discriminatory european system of tolls and thus to promote a toll system based on the number of kilometres travelled on these motorways. it is time for all the member states to finally live up to their commitments in this area.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague jim higgins in the plenary on 11 june. the european toll service (set) is a failure. political action is therefore needed to speed up its implementation. the report therefore proposed a package of measures to encourage operators and member states to reduce the time taken to implement the system. the report was adopted by 507 votes in favour, 147 against and 13 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. in 2004, the european commission created the set system which has proved to be a total failure today. however, i do not think that the project should be abandoned for that reason. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this text, because it proposes a reform of the system. the commission proposes that the use of online payment systems, the reinforcement of the 'polluter pays' principle and pricing based on distance rather than time should be used to avoid any discrimination between users.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the tolling service and the vignette system for light passenger vehicles. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the 'polluter pays' principle must also be revised to reduce the cost to drivers of light passenger vehicles, who are discriminated against by professional hauliers whose annual ticket prices are much cheaper.
in writing. we are seeing a delay in the implementation of the european toll service, which would allow economies of scale and simplified payment for cross-border motorists. member states should become more involved in the implementation of this system and encourage cooperation between stakeholders.
in writing. the report has the double merit of calling on member states to upgrade their transport networks to make them environmentally friendly and of noting that a european electronic toll service poses a threat to the protection of personal data of users and citizens. however, its recommendations for managing the implementation of such a european tolls service are unbalanced: the cost of road infrastructure is to be passed on to businesses (who use it as a work tool on which to base a profit) as well as to individual users (who use it as a means of getting to their place of work, which is a cost for them). therefore i abstain.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i too am very moved to take up this debate today, since we have been working hard and aggressively in parliament for almost four years to create a common european asylum system. in the specific case of the directive on the asylum procedure for which i was appointed rapporteur, it is a mild understatement to admit that the road has been bumpy. that's why i'm very happy today to bring my stone to the building. the directive on asylum procedures currently in force has often been described as a catalogue of national worst practices. the commission, the un refugee agency and non-governmental organisations have noted many failures in the application of the previous directive. in fact, it is enough to compare recognition rates from one member state to another to see how much applying for asylum in europe can be a lottery depending on the country responsible for the application. while the recognition rate in 2012 was less than 1% in greece, it was 90% in malta, 29% in germany and 14.5% in france. in addition, the level of protection varies greatly from one state to another depending on the nationality of the applicants. for example, if an afghan seeks asylum in europe, his chances of being offered protection vary from 8 to 91 percent depending on the state where he files his application. it was therefore necessary and urgent to revise the asylum procedure directive, both in the interests of asylum seekers and of the states. but the process of reform has been far from a long, quiet river. almost four years ago, in october 2009, the commission made a proposal to amend the directive. the council has not done so, and i am not sure that the council will be able to do so. he quickly argued that the amendments would generate financial costs and facilitate abuse and procedural misuse. to break the deadlock, the commission put forward a new proposal which took greater account of the council's reservations. parliament has made an ambitious and, in my view, courageous commitment, and we have been actively working towards a position that places the slide rule very high on the side of upward harmonization of protection standards. with this first step, parliament wanted to overcome a somewhat too manichean view of asylum, namely that it should be exclusively a matter of costs and abuses. and we wanted to counter the cost-effectiveness arguments used to limit reforms by pointing out that it is rather poorly used and poor quality procedures that cost the states dearly. after years of sometimes arduous discussions, we have managed to find common ground and to draw up the new outlines of the asylum procedure within the european union. is the compromise we have reached really exactly what we would have liked? of course not! but we have respected an overall balanced strategy, as parliament wanted, which combines the quality of procedures, respect for rights and the efficiency of the decision-making process for the member states. the result of the discussions is undoubtedly added value for the texts on procedures: the rules are specified and clarified, the procedural guarantees are strengthened and the procedures are fairer and more efficient. here are some brief examples of some of them: for example, among the improvements, the clear and precise rules on the compulsory training of the authorities responsible for examining applications; the introduction of an identification mechanism for vulnerable people, including, of course, the identification of needs, but also the response that is formulated for those who have these needs; detailed provisions on individual maintenance, which must be carried out on a near-regular basis; the right to an effective remedy, which is a fundamental point in our text which follows developments in case law; the introduction of procedures for access to the procedure with now defined time limits; and of course, speaking of deadlines, the introduction of a general six-month period for examining an asylum application subject to some exceptions, but in the interests of both applicants and states. these improvements respond to the deficiencies and dysfunctions which have been identified in recent years by the various observers of asylum procedural systems in the member states. these improvements should also make it possible to deepen the process of harmonisation and to unify the current patchwork of asylum procedures in europe.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are not the first to complain about the possibility of taking and storing the fingerprints of asylum seekers, saying that this equates them with criminals. but many people who are innocently staying in a country have experienced this. i myself, when i was in japan on a scholarship, had to register my identity, including my fingerprints, with the authorities of that country. and that exists in many countries. so i just want to ask you: do you still accept that we can have certainty about the identity of asylum seekers or not?
mr president, i now turn to the dublin regulation, on which i have also worked. few european laws have generated so many studies on their application and, in these reports, always the same conclusion: there was an urgent need to reform the dublin system, a system whose cost remains taboo but whose efficiency and dysfunctions are not. the dublin regulation was designed on the assumption of equivalent asylum systems within the european union. the differences, as i said earlier, are glaring between the different systems. the malfunctions of the devices have accumulated and they actually demonstrate the inaccuracy of the initial presumption. the socialist and democratic group has repeatedly expressed its concern at the haste with which the discussions have been conducted. it has thus constantly stressed the need to ensure the quality of the negotiated texts and to guarantee real added value in relation to the existing text. in the end, it is regrettable that the text is not as ambitious as my group, for example, would have wished, even if the undisputed advances in the approved text, which often fill a legal void, should be welcomed and promoted. among the main victories that can be credited to the european parliament in the negotiations, i would mention the early warning mechanism, better access to training for applicants, a suspensive appeal against transfer decisions, better framing of detention, and strengthening the rights of unaccompanied minors and other vulnerable persons. the reform is not as ambitious as the commission's and parliament's position might have suggested. the text approved is not perfect, but it has the merit of setting certain rules that were lacking until now. it was the legal vacuum, which persisted for several years, that allowed some states to have quite different practices in the protection of applicants. as with all the other texts in the asylum package, the real impact of the dublin ii regulation will have to be measured in practice. i would like to see the example of the early warning system as proof of this. while it can help identify and perhaps address the dysfunctions of national asylum systems, it is not a substitute for the mechanism for suspension of transfers. i regret that it does not allow for the suspension of transfers in situations where the fundamental rights of applicants would not be respected in the case of transfers under the dublin regulation. the difficulty for europe is often to translate solidarity into action. it also reflects, without ambiguity, the lack of mutual trust between member states. i hope that these new texts will help to remedy this.
mr president, we are therefore on the eve of the adoption of a set of instruments which has required no less than four years of tough negotiations with the member states and in particular - i will speak about this - on the asylum procedure. the challenge was to harmonise and improve asylum procedures and to ensure that applicants from the same third country have the same recognition rates regardless of the member state in which they apply. to remedy this, i must say that we have not spared our energy, our time or our commitment, nor have the rapporteur, sylvie guillaume, whom i thank and congratulate. yet, all this work gives the unfortunate impression of waste. there is progress, and there is no denying it. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of minors against the dangers of unaccompanied minors, and on the draft directive on the protection of minors against the dangers of unaccompanied minors. but frankly, it's not about the account. the national lists of safe third countries are maintained, as are the accelerated and border procedures. moreover, they may still apply to the most vulnerable applicants. we have not made any real progress on legal aid, and what about the possibility for member states to postpone the examination of an asylum application for up to 21 months when they consider that the situation in the country of origin may change? hence the feeling of unfinished business. the member states - it must be said - with the support of the right wing of this house, have succeeded in unraveling our ambition to establish a fair and efficient procedure and all the means have been good for this purpose. they were used until the decision-making process was blocked so that the commission would withdraw its proposal and make a new one in 2011. false arguments about the so-called cost of a good procedure and the effects of air appeals, when in fact, in terms of health and the cost of appeals, it is a bad procedure at first reading that has much higher costs. then there is the blackmail against the eurodac regulation. the commission will therefore have to be very vigilant and make full use of the early warning mechanism in the dublin regulation, which will have to be fully exploited.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it will be remembered that this asylum package was voted in the strasbourg parliament, alongside the european court of human rights. we owe this package to the tenacity of the commissioner - and we thank her for that - and to the rapporteurs and the fictitious rapporteurs. it is very balanced and it will be a great pleasure to hear the president announce its ratification tomorrow. the minimum standards of the procedures directive will mean that refugees will now have a common status within the european union. we particularly welcome the individual hearing and the special procedures for unaccompanied minors in distress. i am thinking in particular of young teenagers who arrive on european territory - it is a very important status we are giving them from now on - and vulnerable adults. the six-month deadline for giving an opinion and the reasons, now clear, for the retention are very important. the reform of eurodac was also essential to prevent possible abuses, as was the early warning mechanism in dublin ii. we have already mentioned this in the last part-session, madam commissioner, the weak point in the dublin ii regulation is obviously the burden-sharing, relocation, but you know very well that the european parliament is not responsible for this weakness. however, you know that within the epp group a number of delegations are reluctant. we shall not be voting tomorrow and therefore we shall be very pleased to hear the president of the sitting announce the ratification of this agreement. you know that, despite this weak point in the dublin ii regulation, the vote on this 'asylum' package in the libe committee yesterday was a success - a success which, as i said at the beginning of the debate, is due to you and the fictitious rapporteurs. we will be very happy to have this 'asylum' package within the european union.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i agree with you, mrs malmström, on the directive on the asylum procedure. despite the dissatisfaction, the majority of the public regarded the compromise that had been negotiated as undoubtedly having a significant added value compared to the current text. another somewhat perilous path awaits us, since we will now have to validate the full and correct transpositions of the reforms and parliament will have to ensure extremely close monitoring by the commission - assisted of course by the european asylum support office - of the full and correct implementation of the revised directives. i will be particularly vigilant on several points, including the application of the provisions concerning unaccompanied minors, the effectiveness of the identification mechanism, the quality of interviews, the right to an effective remedy and the question of accelerated procedures or at the border. our fight for a common european asylum system, but one which is truly common and truly protective, is therefore far from over.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the involvement of our two rapporteurs, mr coelho and mrs weber, who have done a remarkable job on this issue, we have won in two respects with this reform of schengen governance. firstly, the free movement of citizens is preserved and this free movement is a fundamental freedom. it is a foundation for the peoples of europe and for many it is a tangible expression of european citizenship. the schengen area and free movement are rightly cited by many of our citizens as the greatest achievements of european integration. it is a fundamental freedom that our fears or quarrels cannot compromise. any reintroduction of internal border control must always be a measure of last resort, limited and proportionate. this reform also enables us to strengthen the security of the schengen area and thus of european citizens. we now have an effective european mechanism for space evaluation. we can exercise objective control at our borders through european assessments by small groups of experts and field visits. we have also given ourselves the means to react and to reinforce controls at our external borders, if necessary, so that citizens do not have to bear the price of porous borders. if there is a defect in our borders, it will be corrected. the member state concerned will have to act immediately and put in place an action plan to strengthen border control at the border in question. if such a failure were to persist and the frontiers were to give way, then it would be possible to temporarily reintroduce internal border controls in order to protect our european citizens from uncontrolled flows. but we must not be naive, there are very specific situations which call for a temporary and careful re-establishment of frontiers. this is why member states also remain free to temporarily re-establish internal borders for reasons of security and public order, as the safety of european citizens must come first. i am convinced that this reform of schengen governance is a great step forward and provides us with the necessary european mechanisms to better control our borders. with this reform, we are ensuring that european citizens have a schengen area in which they can move and trade freely and safely. we have won this package with a great deal of effort, thanks to the tenacity of our rapporteurs and the european commission. unfortunately, the council has not, in this development, taken a very democratic attitude, and i regret that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the solidarity and mutual trust embodied in the schengen acquis have been seriously undermined in recent years. freedom of movement has also recently been called into question by several member states, which, however, still fail to provide the evidence to support their allegations of fraud in social benefits. in the face of purely nationalist impulses, we were finally able to reach a compromise which reinforces the community approach and preserves this fundamental achievement of european construction. of course, we would have liked to go further on this subject too and above all to preserve the prerogatives of the european parliament in a matter which directly affects the rights of the citizens, that is to say those whom it represents. the challenge now is to put an end to this mutual distrust in the minds of people and to restore the initial mutual trust that was at the heart of the schengen area in its early days. we also need a space where we stop believing that all problems are the fault of the neighbouring member state, which is necessarily incompetent, and a space where the issues of irregular migration can be better managed at european level and no longer in the light of national political agendas.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in november 2011, the shipping company seafrance disappeared, scuttled by its owner sncf. this will leave 1,500 employees and their families stranded on the dock. the misfortune of some making the happiness of others, other companies were immediately found to come and occupy the still warm place of the companies who hoped, thanks to the help of their political friends, to quickly get their hands on the family jewels of the former seafrance company: four ships. ships with a book value of between 200 and 300 million euros suddenly became worthless. in june 2012, the french courts awarded the ships to the eurotunnel group for just over €60 million. what a slap in the face to those who thought they had found an open-air gold mine. in august 2012, after 50 million renovations, the eurotunnel group, with the support of a worker cooperative founded by some of the former employees of seafrance, helped myferrylink to go to sea. today, 600 employees have been re-employed. a job they could lose in six months because the british competition commission, seized by those who thought they had won the million euro, decided to deny them access to the port of dover. no solution is proposed as ships in their name would be banned from port. since when are the champions of "free and unhampered" competition afraid of a few french sailors? since when has a european state had the right to refuse what is enshrined in the treaties, namely the free movement of goods and people? how long will the british be able to defend their own interests against the interests of europe? you want to talk about competition, then let's talk about competition, if that word really still has meaning.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i am a little surprised at the application of this regulation to the outermost regions and the aegean islands, even though they benefit from specific rules through their respective posei. i understand that they are being asked to contribute to the financing of a crisis reserve which they will never be able to benefit from. nor can we ignore the fact that the decrease in the regulation will result in a reduction in the envelopes allocated to the outermost regions for the calendar year 2013, contrary to the commitments made. i know that you, commissioner, are keen to ensure that the specific features of these regions are taken into account, and that is the meaning of amendment no 12, which we tabled with 40 of our colleagues, to ensure that this regulation is not applied in the outermost regions and the aegean islands.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my colleague, mr luis manuel capoulas santos, for his work and for his report, which i support. i am of course aware of the duty of realism you have mentioned, commissioner, but the reality is that parliament has been a co-decision-maker, a co-legislator since the lisbon treaty, and parliament must be respected. i think the commission's proposal is rather ridiculous. while there is still no agreement between parliament and the council on the future multiannual budget, we are asked to set an adjustment rate for the cap direct payments for the calendar year 2013 for the year 2014. this request for a 5% reduction in aid does not seem acceptable to me as it stands. the specific nature of farms in the outermost regions, whose particular features have been recognised by the treaties, must also be taken into account. as such, i believe that today and tomorrow there should be no reduction in payments for farms in these sensitive areas.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, parliament is not the council's opponent. he's not his competition, either. it is, with the council, the co-legislator, on an equal footing with it. and it is in this capacity that parliament is intervening today to note and chastise the delays which are accumulating in the adoption of the indispensable texts. the commission has tried to propose the texts that were required by the situation, the serious situation facing the european union, and i will not be directing my remarks against the commission because i believe that the commission, and in particular commissioner barnier, has done all the work that was necessary, with the means at its disposal and for which he should be thanked. of course, the electoral calendar and the renewal of the commission make it difficult to adopt, before the end of the mandate, proposals which are still to come and which are so necessary. but what is at issue are the texts which have already been agreed in parliament and which are blocked in the council. then i heard what you said, madam minister. the council works a lot, it works well. as for parliament, you are waiting to see what it is capable of. i think he proved it to you. i shall not go over the list of texts which are currently in difficulties. i hope that the council - your staff - will have the few minutes it needs to read the motion which will be voted on thursday. i would like to stress the catastrophic consequences of the present situation. firstly, between our institutions. as i said earlier, parliament and the council are equal. and what is happening now is the denial of loyal collaboration between these two collegiate institutions. why can the council not agree, while in parliament, with its political diversity, with its diversity of nationalities, we find solutions to the differences that may oppose us? that's the first question i'm gonna ask. the solution to the crisis we are still experiencing, despite the soothing words of the heads of state and government every time they meet, is the blockade. these blocking actions in the council give credence to the idea that the european union is not reactive and that if we are taking longer than other countries - including the united states - to get out of the crisis, it is because we have a model that does not work. we are committed to this community model. the council must therefore take its share of responsibility and give our european union the necessary responsiveness. these blockages create legal uncertainty and keep the industry, investors, waiting to know what sauce they will be eaten with, to speak clearly. we cannot live in a constant state of waiting for decisions to be made and live by the words of lobbyists who obtain documents we do not have. before making a commitment, each one wants to know what his situation will be. these blocks are feeding the irresponsible but effective words of all the eurosceptics of all stripes who are also attacking the european union, as we will certainly hear in this house from other benches. these blockages create profound confusion about the final real orientations of european regulation and paralyse effective financing of the real economy. the council must come to its senses. i only listened to the translation, but i trust the interpreters, and i will not comment on what i thought was a slight shade of doubt or contempt, but perhaps i misunderstood. it is time, madam president, to give europe a different image from that of a ballet of cars that meet in the council's courtyard in the evening for meetings of heads of state and government that do not lead to any solution. we have seen this again recently in the problems of tax evasion and avoidance. our citizens are fed up with it. they don't believe us anymore. they don't believe you anymore, they don't believe us anymore. it is time to try to repair the grave damage caused by poorly reported decisions on the cyprus crisis, which have resulted in a media fiasco. we are navigating between government announcements, interpretation of summits and ineffective negotiations. we have a few months left, madam president, because there will be elections, and these elections are not a matter of renewing this or that, but of europe's image. we have a few months to get things back on track. we are counting on the council to do what is necessary. we are ready for it, and we have proven it.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, madam representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that i am a little tired of always repeating the same thing. but i hope that by repeating the same thing over and over again, we will somehow manage to get there. it is true that unemployment is on the agenda of the next european council. this is a matter of concern to all of us, and in particular to the unemployed among young people, who are reaching their peak. in some countries, one in two young people are unemployed. 10% of households in europe are totally unemployed. we are said to be the most prosperous, the most peaceful time, and we face such difficulties. ladies and gentlemen, the number of european councils meeting to resolve the crisis gives me cause for concern. the meetings are going on and on, the decisions are there but they are not being implemented. and when they are, some say that europe does not have to dictate to us what we should do. i'm having a really hard time understanding. we cannot negotiate in brussels and then come back and challenge. i think that time, if we're going to succeed, is over. europe is not a foreign and arbitrary power. europe is making decisions, it is you, it is us! we must be responsible and therefore keep our commitments. in a time of crisis, we must pull together. if we're shooting each other in different directions, it's not possible. the commitments are clear. our governments have agreed to undertake the reforms necessary to stimulate economic recovery. i am in favour of a strong european commission for a very simple reason: in a club of 27 or 28 we need a referee to help us coordinate. i prefer that to a board of directors where the older guys impose their will on the younger guys. let me encourage you, josé manuel, you are right, the commission must play its role as arbiter and guardian of all the members and knock on the table when they are together. in your last report on the economy, you made some concrete proposals. member states have a clear roadmap to follow. it's not a dictate. that's what we decided together and that's what we need. we want a europe that works better. this requires real reforms: on the regulation of financial markets - we talked about this morning - on the sharing of tax information between member states; on the free movement of goods and services; on the free movement of capital; on the free movement of capital; on the free movement of capital; on the free movement of capital; on the free movement of capital; on the free movement of capital; on the free movement of capital. we need a credible financial framework. what do we want in parliament? flexibility, responsiveness, a revision clause and own resources. these conditions are important, ladies and gentlemen, not only for the next parliament to have a say, but also for dealing with unforeseen events. three new elements have come about unexpectedly and without the council being able to anticipate them. and that's normal, but it takes responsiveness. three elements that the council's rigid framework could not address. let me demonstrate it to you. firstly, the rescue plan for cyprus, which must include an additional cohesion fund of 300 million. if we stick to the present rules, we should withdraw this sum from another member state of the cohesion fund, or else we should all be in solidarity. but you have to decide. as regards the floods which are ravaging all of central europe, there are no more appropriations available from the solidarity fund. does europe not have a duty, in these difficult times for our citizens, to show a little solidarity? the council of 8 february considered that this fund was too high and proposed that it be halved over the next seven years. i understand that the council is able to predict natural disasters in 2020 by saying 'we need less solidarity funds', but it is not able to manage today's disasters. finally, with regard to the dramatic level of youth unemployment in many countries of the union, the implementation of the programme on employment and youth growth must be accelerated. this frame is too rigid. we need more flexibility or it's impossible. without flexibility, the unfortunate cypriots, the flood victims, the unemployed young people will wait and make it very easy for all forms of populism to take hold. i was pleased to hear this morning, mr president, that you have taken account of the problem of smes in the countries most in difficulty. i have already said in this chamber that it is impossible to keep jobs with interest rates of 10 to 15% in some countries. this is a businessman talking. i saw a businessman who needed 100,000 euros to replace a machine. he was willing to put his house up for the bank. but the bank won't give him a loan, saying it's not a safe deposit. we need a financial response. mr olli rehn - i am looking at you - we must support small and mediumsized enterprises, they are the ones who do not relocate their jobs, they are the ones who must be helped today and not tomorrow if we do not want to create more unemployment. my dear colleagues, the world is changing. we have a great responsibility to offer our fellow citizens a stronger, safer and more efficient europe. but we must exist in the hearts of our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
blue-card question. – mr callanan, do you really want a free-trade agreement on data protection?
mr president, of course the crisis is still here and its effects will unfortunately be felt tomorrow. mr barroso, you spoke of a european consensus. if this is a european consensus to act, then yes, it is a good thing. and i propose we go in two directions. first, of course, there are the economic and social questions: action to promote investment, action against youth unemployment, action to re-industrialize the european continent, but also urgent action to free up credit for european small and mediumsized enterprises. i ask the following question: is it normal that today the ecb lends to european banks at a rate which is absolutely limited and that this money is not paid into the european economy? that is a real question which i would like the european council to answer. secondly, from the council's point of view, the political and democratic question. we cannot have a deeper, more integrated, stronger, more united governance of the euro area tomorrow without more democracy. the heads of state and government must put on the table the institutional and democratic seal necessary to ensure that tomorrow the peoples will meet and recognize themselves in their european leaders.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam minister, i have already spoken this morning on another subject, i will not say the same things. i will simply make two observations. firstly, i would like to see you, madam minister, play a pedagogical role and explain to the heads of state and government, and in particular to the french government, what the european semester is and how this process takes place, which leads the heads of state and government themselves to take decisions which they must then implement, and that this is not a commission dictate. my second observation is on unemployment: it is easy to talk about all the measures that should be taken, but with the budget we have, there is not much that can be done. the real solution, and it is not easy, is to create jobs, because we cannot solve unemployment by social measures. we'll solve unemployment by creating jobs. what is needed to create activity? we need a predictable and solid framework. it is not just a question of credit. again, we should not be contradictory. we're imposing legitimate safety rules on banks, and we're also worried about the credit crunch. here too, balance is needed. i believe that the real question to be tackled, and one that would require courage, is the question of the path of social harmonization, which avoids dumping, and of tax harmonization, which avoids tax evasion. these are the measures we must take if we are to build a europe which is truly understood by our fellow citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what strikes me about the commission's recommendations in the context of the european semester is the direction they are taking, detailing in such a precise way liberal approaches which have nevertheless proved inadequate. in these times of crisis, lowering corporate taxes or reducing social contributions by employers and demanding ever greater effort from citizens is like adding fuel to the fire. and despite all the warning signals, including from the imf, the commission seems determined to take us to the wall. it is simply slowing down the pace, giving some states a little respite in the pace of recovery of public accounts. the european semester mechanism was not designed to give the commission new powers. this is to fill a gap in coordination between economic and budgetary policies decided by sovereign states but which, in the euro area, have considerable mutual impacts. to undermine this coordination is to risk fuelling an allergy to europe among our fellow citizens, which will be the joy of the eurosceptics next year. i would like to say a few words about the democratization of this semester. it is a matter of making it a framework for sincere and proactive cooperation with european and national parliamentarians rather than a collective punishment. finally, as regards the future of the union, our debate today has highlighted the place of young people and their essential role in securing the future of our economies and the social future of the union. but if these young people do not have a clear answer, and if our budget does not give us the means to make the 'youth guarantee' a reality, we will have failed. we will have lost the bet of the founders of the union.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, many thanks for a very substantive and wide-ranging debate. the european council is taking place at a critical juncture where we have to do whatever it takes to overcome the unemployment crisis in many parts of europe. as was said by somebody like ms jäätteenmäki, the european council may not be able to solve all europe’s problems but the european council must definitely be able and willing to give a strong boost and strong support to effectively tackling the serious problem of youth unemployment and enhancing the access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises which is so vital for economic growth. let me comment on some key issues related to the growth and investment agenda and then lászló andor will comment on funding for fighting youth unemployment and the social dimension of the emu. the excessively tight credit conditions for smes are a very serious bottleneck to growth today, especially in southern europe. as president barroso explained, we are now working hard and intensively with the european investment bank and the ecb to find a viable, really workable solution to this problem. the european investment bank is the public development bank of the european union and it must be used to the maximum extent for these public objectives that are so essential from the european standpoint. therefore i call on the european council to give a very strong boost and very strong political guidance to the eib, where member states play a key role in decision-making. on banking union it is not correct to say that the commission would be delaying it. on the contrary: overall we have made sound and steady progress on banking union, which is a cornerstone of the future economic and monetary union, and the commission has been the driver of this work together with parliament. i trust the ecofin council will arrive at a general approach on the bank resolution recovery directive next week in order to pave the way for rapid political agreement by parliament and the council on bank resolution recovery and deposit guarantee schemes. we certainly need to maintain the pace and momentum for completion of the banking union. before the summer recess, the commission will make an ambitious proposal for a single resolution mechanism. we definitely need to ensure its adoption during the current parliamentary cycle, before the european elections and campaign take place. finally, i am pleased to be coming to the committee on economic and monetary affairs next week to discuss country-specific recommendations and economic policy more in general. i will just refer to one issue which is a key issue on the agenda of the european council. this concerns the adoption of the euro by latvia. last week, the commission concluded in the convergence report that latvia has achieved a high degree of sustainable economic convergence and is ready to adopt the euro on 1 january next year. i warmly invite the european council to endorse the commission’s proposal and welcome latvia into the euro area as its eighteenth member. latvia has come a long way. determined policy implementation has helped latvia to return to robust growth and emerge much stronger economically than before the crisis. the prospective adoption of the euro by latvia sends a very strong signal to the region, to the euro area and to the global community and the world economy at large. it emphasises the integrity of the euro and proves that determined policy action for sustainable public finances and sustainable growth and job creation do generate concrete results.
mr president, i have a question for mr rehn. is the commission, the commission representative ... (the president cut the speaker off)
commissioner, as everyone here knows, the greek public television was shut down yesterday by order of the greek government. the greek government says it was a condition of the troika. since there is a representative of the european commission in the troika, i ask the commissioner responsible for that representative: is it true that the european commission has instructed its representative in the troika to ask for the closure of public television and radio in greece? if that is true, it is a scandal which we will have to discuss in this parliament. i humbly ask you, commissioner, to give us a clear answer to this very clear question. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. some think that the june summit will not be an event. however, the concerted suspension of the stability pact, which will be endorsed by the council, is an important step towards the establishment of a genuine economic government, which will be called upon to implement convergence and competitiveness instruments. in defiance of the community method, the commission proposes that this be done by bilateral contractual arrangements with each state, whereas the member states in the council would like to stick to purely intergovernmental arrangements. this is unacceptable at a time when our citizens are rightly protesting against the austerity policies and the lack of democracy in europe. the european parliament, elected by universal suffrage and the depository of the general will of the european citizens, is for the moment excluded from this new stage of emu. it is urgent that the european parliament should have its own structure dedicated to the euro area, to weigh in against the eurogroup, whose questionable choices have too often remained unchallenged.
mr president, i may not have understood very well, but mrs ayala sender's report - if i am not mistaken - recommended voting against the appointment of mr neven mates. i am in favour of this appointment, and i therefore voted against the report by mrs ayala sender. the fact that a majority voted against this report necessarily implies that the report's conclusion to the contrary should be adopted and therefore that mr neven mates should be appointed.
mr president, i should like to know the commission's opinion on this basis.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission always answers when asked. we take note of your vote on the amendments and we do indeed appreciate parliament’s report on the creation of a fund for european aid to the most deprived. yesterday commissioner lászló andor outlined the commission’s position on the main elements of parliament’s report, both on political and technical grounds. now that you have a position, the commission agrees that we now need to start discussions with the council and we need to conclude them swiftly so that the fund can be operational on 1 january 2014.
mr president, i thank the commission for its favourable attitude to the very important vote which has just taken place here in the european parliament, which we welcome, and which constitutes a good basis for opening negotiations with the council. i therefore ask you to postpone the final vote on the legislative proposal to allow the opening of negotiations, which we hope will be as conclusive as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the appointment of neven mimica, the new croatian commissioner. currently deputy prime minister of croatia, mr mimica will be in charge of consumer protection until the 2014 european elections.
in writing. although his june 4 hearing failed to convince meps, approving his appointment sends a strong and positive signal to croatia on the eve of its accession to the european union. in view of these factors, i have voted in favour of the appointment of mr neven mimica.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr mimica's nomination to become the croatian commissioner of the european commission. it will now be responsible for consumer policy, which we have decided to give a central place in european legislation. in accordance with the formal procedure, any new eu member is allowed to appoint a commissioner to the european commission. as croatia joined the eu on 1 july 2013, the european parliament heard the candidate in june. after this vote of confidence by parliament, he will be formally appointed by qualified majority vote at the european council in june.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr neven mimica as the croatian european commissioner for consumer protection, with a view to croatia's accession to the european union on 1 july. mr mimica is an honest politician, highly respected in his country, and one of the main architects of croatia's accession to the union in recent years. having been disappointed by mr mimica's answers to his hearing before the imco committee of the european parliament on 4 june, i fully support the epp group's request for written clarification from mr mimica on certain points relating to the commission's consumer protection policy.
in writing. we supported the appointment of neven mimica, the croatian candidate for the post of consumer protection commissioner. following the reservations we expressed after mr mimica's hearing, the candidate answered our questions. the enlargement of the european commission's college is part of croatia's accession to the union on 1 july. in order to respect the institutional balance where each member state has the right to appoint a commissioner, mr mimica will join the college of commissioners as its 28th member until the 2014 elections.
in writing. i have always been opposed to this commission and its policy as a whole, which is the result of the agreement between the epp and the pse. the change of commissioner would not alter my position in any way. i vote against this nomination.
in writing. i voted in favour of the appointment of neven mimica, croatian candidate for the post of european commissioner for consumer protection. in the context of croatia's accession to the european union on 1 july 2013, the european parliament delivered a decisive and friendly message to the croatian people by supporting its candidate for the post of commissioner. we have seen during his hearing in parliamentary committees that neven mimica has good general skills in the field of consumer protection: internal market, medical devices, food safety, etc. moreover, although the croatian candidate needs to deepen his knowledge in detail, he has in the past shown a genuine desire for european integration by holding the post of minister for european affairs on the one hand, and negotiating the conditions for croatia's accession to the union on the other. finally, we were impressed by the candidate for commissioner, mr neven mimica, who was very frank, very determined and very humble. i hope that the summit of heads of state and government on 27 and 28 june will follow parliament's opinion on the appointment of the commissioner-designate.
in writing. the european parliament voted on wednesday 12 june on the calendar of plenary sessions in 2014. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i deplore the manipulation of elected officials who do not hesitate to publish false figures and data and to spread these lies in order to secure the support of their public opinion. strasbourg is the symbol and history of european construction. to deny this symbolic and historical significance is to deny the meaning of this building and the ties that bind us together. i regret that in these times of european division, the elected representatives of the european parliament no longer remember the legacy of our founding fathers and give in to personal interests at the expense of a necessary and urgent unity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the calendar for the european parliament's plenary sessions in 2014. there will therefore be only 11 plenary sessions in 2014, instead of the 12 sessions provided for in the treaties, as is the custom in election years. however, i was wondering about the presence of three additional sessions in brussels, since the treaties and the judgments of the cjeu of 1997 and 2012 stated that there cannot be additional sessions in brussels if parliament has not held 12 ordinary plenary sessions in strasbourg. to avoid any possibility of further appeals against the european parliament, even though the last judgment of the court was delivered in december 2012, i tabled an amendment in plenary. unfortunately, he did not win a majority of the votes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2014 calendar which organises the legislative work for the 2014 election year. i voted in favour of the amendment to abolish mini-plenary sessions in brussels, which are unnecessary and affect the efficiency of parliamentary work.
in writing. i voted in favour of changing the numerical composition of the standing committees. the number of parliamentarians serving on committees was to be increased because of the forthcoming arrival of croatian meps. not all committees are affected by these changes, the calculation has been made in such a way as to ensure that the political balance within the committees and their respective workloads are respected.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft on the numerical composition of the standing committees. in parliament, work is divided into committees dealing with the various areas of competence of the institution. i am a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) and the committee on women's rights and gender equality (femm). on 1 july 2013, croatia will become the 28th member state of the eu and 12 new croatian meps will enter the european parliament. in this context, we have decided to rearrange the numbering of committees to accommodate our croatian colleagues.
in writing. i voted against the appointment of mr neven mates, the croatian candidate for the post of member of the court of auditors (the eu body whose purpose is to improve the eu's financial management and to report on the use of public money). indeed, the hearing of mr mates was inconclusive. he did not appear particularly motivated by the post in question.
in writing. i voted against the appointment of this croatian candidate to the court of auditors. my choice was motivated by his disappointing performance during his hearing, which we perceived as lacking interest in the position of member of the court. he would have been the first croat member of the court of auditors, so it was necessary to validate the candidacy of a person who was competent but also very motivated by this opportunity offered to croatia.
in writing. on wednesday i voted against the appointment of the croatian candidate, mr neven mates, to the european court of auditors. for this position, within the institution responsible for improving the financial management of the european union and for reporting on the use of public money, we considered that mr mates did not have the required skills. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. i voted against the nomination of mr mates as a member of the european court of auditors because the candidate did not have all the necessary qualifications for the post.
in writing. i agree with the opinion of the parliament which, during the consultation on the appointment of neven mates to the court of auditors, gave a negative opinion. mr mates has spent his entire career in the service of institutions whose line is fully and exclusively in line with the liberal logic of austerity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the nomination of mr george pufan, romanian candidate for the post of member of the court of auditors. the court of auditors is an eu body whose purpose is to improve the financial management of the eu and to report on the use of public money.
in writing. i voted against the nomination of this romanian candidate to the court of auditors, who showed a relative experience in auditing. he is the subject of allegations of incompetence and suspicion in romania over his graduation. although his hearing before parliament went well, i chose to disapprove of his appointment because of the many mistrust and allegations of corruption in his country.
in writing. i voted against the nomination of the romanian candidate, mr george pufan, to the european court of auditors. for this post, in the institution responsible for improving the financial management of the european union and for reporting on the use of public money, the epp delegation considered that mr pufan did not have the required skills. however, a small majority won in parliament in favour of the romanian candidate (334 votes in favour, 290 against). we are now awaiting the final decision of the council.
in writing. i voted against the nomination of mr pufan as a member of the european court of auditors because the candidate did not have all the necessary qualifications for the post.
in writing. georges pufan is a romanian technocrat who is committed to fulfilling his duties at the court of auditors in accordance with the requirements of the latter. however, his interview clearly shows that he is satisfied with the lisbon treaty and his argument is a neoliberal argument: "economy, efficiency, efficiency" and "performance audits". i therefore vote against the report supporting his appointment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on illegal fishing. the text aligns a 2008 regulation with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, in particular as regards the actions that the european commission can take to limit illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very important one.
in writing. this report sets out the commission's responsibilities in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the commission may adopt delegated acts, in particular to establish different notification periods, to amend the list of products not covered by the regulation, to modify the deadlines for submitting fishing authorisations depending on the type of fishery product, the distance to the fishing area, the type of vessel used, etc. the commission may adopt implementing acts concerning the technical provisions of the regulation. i voted in favour of the report because of the division between delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to classify the commission's powers in terms of delegated and implementing acts in the area of illegal fishing. the delegated act procedure allows the commission to adopt binding acts itself without waiting for parliament and the council to give their consent, which allows it to be more reactive and to have more room for manoeuvre. the commission is now the body which classifies third countries as non-cooperating with the eu in fisheries, but this delegation of power is limited in time to avoid distorting parliament's powers in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by raul romeva i rueda, which provides for alignment of the regulation establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eradicate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. the proposed classification of the commission's competences between delegated acts and implementing acts is not problematic and the changes introduced do not give the commission disproportionate competences. like the rapporteur, i am very much in favour of the delegation of powers to the european commission not being unlimited in time, so as to allow parliament to assess its prerogatives regularly.
in writing. this text enables the commission to take the necessary measures to deal with the consequences of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing for biodiversity and food security. this is an important step forward, but the commission will have to remain vigilant to ensure that these measures do not lead to price increases, supply disruptions or loss of profits for operators.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it will make it possible to combat illegal fishing effectively without destabilising the european economy. illegal fishermen sell fish at a lower cost, while fishermen who respect eu rules and quotas are forced to sell their fish at higher prices to cover their costs. this unfair competition cannot be accepted and the european union must protect legal fishermen and thus ensure the quality and monitoring of the product. the text will also help to safeguard certain species threatened by non-compliance with quotas.
in writing. today, the european parliament has approved a new procedure concerning the list of countries that do not cooperate in the fight against illegal, unregulated and unreported (iuu) fishing. this is good news and i voted in favour of this text because this blacklist is an essential tool to tackle illegal fishing. we had to give the green light to a faster procedure to add countries to this list. this will allow the commission to add further countries to the current list of non-cooperating states and to publish the list of vessels involved. with iuu fishing, vulnerable fish stocks are under serious threat. transparency of the states and the vessels involved is a crucial measure to tackle this problem. if the countries on the list do not make rapid progress, the commission must propose sanctions.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague raül romeva i rueda in the plenary on 12 june. this report concerned the classification of the powers currently conferred on the commission by regulation no 1005/2008 as delegated or implementing powers. as the report called for, it was important to limit the delegation of powers proposed to a certain period. it was a single vote and the report was adopted by 668 votes to 7, with 10 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted for the parliament's report on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. these illegal activities are lucrative because they allow their perpetrators to sell fish cheaper by avoiding quotas and environmental criteria. they have a significant cost for fishermen who comply with european rules and thus find themselves in a situation of unfair competition. parliament therefore adopted new rules to strengthen inspection operations during landings and transhipments of vessels, including those from third countries. the text also provides for a set of sanctions at european level.
in writing. the aim of this report is to make the commission's powers under the regulation compatible with the new rules on the functioning of the european union. the proposals reinforce the provisions to prevent, deter and eradicate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in a consolidated legal framework. in this sense, no authority is withdrawn from the european parliament. i vote for it.
in writing. antonio masip hidalgo recommended that the council's position at first reading be adopted on this text, which aims to improve the reception conditions for asylum seekers in europe and to bring eu legislation into line with european standards in this field. the commission's initial text proposes in particular to facilitate access to employment for an asylum seeker and to prohibit the detention of a person solely on the grounds that he is seeking international protection. i, like most of my colleagues, approved of this recommendation.
in writing. the objectives of the report are of several kinds. the first step is to ensure that persons applying for international protection are provided with the best possible conditions (access to the labour market, duration of asylum processing, detention and conditions of detention, etc.) for treatment in accordance with international standards. the second step is to harmonise the reception rules in order to limit the movement of persons seeking international protection within the eu in order to obtain better protection. i voted for the report because of the points made in it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 'asylum package', which, although it does not meet all the expectations of the socialist group, makes it possible to modernise and make the rules on asylum in europe fairer. we now call on the council to abandon its accounting approach to asylum and to adopt minimum rules applicable throughout europe. the current system is unfair to asylum seekers, as the chances of their application being successful vary considerably depending on the country in which it is lodged. in addition, the conditions under which applications are received and processed are sometimes not in keeping with the values which europe stands for. the texts adopted by the european parliament provide an initial improvement by creating common standards. i would like to mention in particular: - the setting of a six-month deadline for examining applications, and the right to an effective remedy; - better access to information for applicants; - the strengthening of the rights of unaccompanied minors and the most vulnerable people.
in writing. i voted in favour of a new structure for european asylum policy. the text introduces common rules for processing applications and ensures minimum rights for asylum seekers entering the union. more readability and simplicity is a given if we really want to help those who need it most and are in a situation of emergency and distress. a more efficient system is also, and above all, a system which is better able to manage the flow of applications properly and to ensure that all the rules and criteria we set are respected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it allows for a clarification and strengthening of the standards for the reception of asylum seekers at european level. the text sets out minimum standards for reception so that applicants can live with dignity and equality in each member state. this measure establishes a clear and reasonable system of solidarity and will allow the eu to assert itself in its role as defender of human rights.
in writing. after more than four years of tough negotiations with the council, this vote on the remaining four items of the asylum package marks a remarkable step forward and finally gives the green light to the establishment of a genuine european asylum system. the new system provides for common time limits for processing asylum applications, stricter rules on staff training, better access to information, better supervision of detention, the widespread use of suspensive remedies, responses tailored to vulnerable persons such as victims of torture or unaccompanied minors, etc. - all improvements that will address the identified shortcomings and take the process of harmonising asylum further. i regret that we have not achieved an even more ambitious and protective reform (since several points were lost in the negotiations with the states), but i welcome these votes which mark a historic step forward! the transposition of these regulations and directives and the effective application of these rights of applicants for international protection will now have to be monitored. we have a duty to welcome these people into the european union, respecting their dignity and fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the revision of the directive on reception conditions. the conditions of reception and living conditions for asylum seekers in europe today are extremely disparate, so it was essential to reform the existing legislation. the text adopted at the end of the discussions is not as ambitious as parliament had hoped and defended in the council. but in the face of strong opposition from the states, we have succeeded in shifting the balance towards an upward harmonization of protection standards. the revised directive introduces clear rules on detention and the conditions applicable. the legal vacuum that has persisted until now has allowed some states to have quite scandalous practices in the matter of detention. in addition to this improved framework on detention, the amended directive establishes that it will now be the responsibility of states to identify vulnerable persons, to determine the nature of their needs and to meet them in their reception system. that said, we will have to be particularly vigilant in the transposition of the amended directive at national level in order to check that no misinterpretation or incorrect application of these provisions is made.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the asylum package on wednesday 12 june, five years after the european pact on immigration and asylum which i proposed and championed under the french presidency and which was adopted by the european council in october 2008. we recognised then that international migration could be an opportunity in a comprehensive approach, but that poorly managed immigration could undermine the social cohesion of destination countries, which were not always well equipped to cope with increasing flows of migrants, including asylum seekers. france is the second country to receive asylum applications in europe with over 60,000 applications in 2012. this is no minor phenomenon. i therefore hope that the standards adopted will be balanced and compatible with the evolving capacities of our national asylum systems. the effective operation of our system and the best possible european cooperation will not only serve the interests of our states but also those of asylum seekers for whom the minimum standards for reception have now been clarified.
in writing. i supported the recommendation of my colleague antonio masip hidalgo in the plenary session of 12 june. this recommendation concerned the raising of treatment standards for reception conditions for asylum seekers. it also concerned the harmonisation of national rules on these reception conditions in order to limit the movements of asylum seekers between member states. although the initial report was somewhat unrealistic, the compromises subsequently found were fully satisfactory and i am pleased that parliament has adopted this text.
in writing. on average, the european union deals with around 300 000 asylum applications per year and this number is increasing year by year. it is therefore necessary to establish common and effective legislation on the reception of applicants for international protection. i voted in favour of this text because it aims to set up minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers throughout the european union in order to guarantee them a decent standard of living while avoiding the phenomenon of asylum-shopping and administrative burdens too heavy for the member states.
in writing. on wednesday, i voted in favour of a european asylum policy. it provides for common standards for all member states for the treatment of asylum seekers entering the european union. these harmonised rules should improve the management of flows at the union's borders, avoiding abuses linked to divergent national systems. in view of the difficulties encountered by several member states in the face of the massive influx of migrants during the so-called 'arab spring', the european parliament, in line with the european pact for asylum and immigration, initiated by brice hortefeux, under the french presidency of the european union, is taking up its responsibilities.
in writing. the adoption of the asylum package allows us to have common rules to ensure decent treatment of asylum seekers while putting in place clear rules to prevent and deter abuse of our asylum system. these common standards guarantee that every asylum seeker in europe is treated with dignity. but this common base also allows us to better combat the practice of 'asylum shopping', which is the practice of choosing the country with the most favourable reception conditions to apply for asylum. by making the reception conditions uniform, we prevent such practices.
in writing. the report proposed by mr hidalgo gives precise conditions for the reception of asylum seekers. the report proposes an increase in eu funding for member states dealing with large arrivals, which place a disproportionate burden of asylum seekers on their reception services. the report also provides for the unification of european rules in this area, which is entirely in line with the wishes of the european parliament. i am therefore very much prepared to see this report continue on its way to implementation, which is why i gave my vote a positive direction.
in writing. while the aim of this text is to establish more harmonised and humane standards for the reception and treatment of asylum seekers by the member states of the european union , it is far from that goal. on the contrary, by legislating on the conditions and grounds for detention, this report accepts and legitimises detention as a way of managing people seeking asylum in the european union. it thus trivializes the confinement of asylum seekers, including minors and particularly vulnerable persons in situations of great distress, in centres and prisons. i, for my part, advocate humanizing the reception conditions for asylum seekers. the right to seek asylum is a right, and it is particularly shocking that an individual should be deprived of his liberty for the sole reason that he is seeking international protection. i therefore oppose this report.
in writing. 330 000 asylum applications were registered in the union in 2012. to meet these demands, i voted in favour of the new rules proposed in this report, which call for more humane treatment but also for more stringent measures in the handling of cases. these rules provide for common time limits for asylum procedures which should not exceed six months, and minimum rights for applicants in respect of housing, subsistence and health benefits. in the event of doubt as to the age of an isolated young person, the latter shall be considered a minor, to enable him to have a representative accompanying him in his activities. however, it will be possible to keep applicants in detention under certain conditions, in particular where there is a risk of absconding. finally, in order to combat organised crime, the police will have access to the eurodac file which stores the fingerprints of asylum seekers over 14 years of age and irregular migrants apprehended on the territory of a member state or when crossing a border. this will enable europe to defend its humanist values while protecting its citizens from uncontrolled immigration.
in writing. i am very pleased with the outcome of the vote on the european asylum system, which creates a genuine common regime for all member states. the previous legislation was often referred to as the 'asylum lottery'. depending on the nationality of the asylum seeker and the state in which the application was lodged, the chances of recognition of the right to asylum varied from 1 to 90%. we have created a maximum period of six months to examine asylum applications where there was none before. the authorities will no longer be able to remain silent and refuse to respond to an asylum application. in addition, vulnerable asylum seekers such as unaccompanied minors, pregnant women and victims of torture will be better protected. finally, the detention of asylum seekers will be more supervised. administrative detention can only be used in certain specialised centres and in special cases. applicants will be able to benefit from a medical and psychological assessment. they will also have faster access to employment. in the end, this new european asylum system is not as ambitious as i wanted it to be. it does, however, make excellent progress in relation to the existing disparities in national legislation.
in writing. cecilia wikström recommended that the council's position at first reading and the joint statement by the european parliament, the council and the commission annexed to the resolution be approved. the commission proposal concerns the dublin ii regulation, which makes it possible to identify rapidly the member states responsible for examining an asylum application and to prevent certain persons from abusing the procedures in place. the commission proposes in particular to extend the scope of the regulation and to make certain amendments to make the procedures more efficient. i, like most of my colleagues, approved of this recommendation.
in writing. the evaluation of dublin ii implementation has shown that there are a number of shortcomings which the report proposes to address in order to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of the system. improvements have been made: the distribution of procedures between member states, the clarification of the sole reason for detention - the serious risk of absconding - the extension of family reunification opportunities for unaccompanied minors to siblings, uncles and aunts and grandparents (at the same time, a clarification of the definition of 'family member' is made), a new early warning mechanism and free legal assistance in case of a challenge to the transfer decision to another member state. i voted for the report because of the improvements it proposes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the revision of the dublin ii agreements which determine which country is responsible for processing asylum applications. the reform aims to ensure that an asylum seeker can no longer be transferred to an eu country where there is a risk of inhuman or degrading treatment. the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing, and it was essential to ensure that they were welcomed and their applications processed in a proper manner.
in writing. i welcome this text, which will improve the functioning of our asylum system while strengthening the protection of the persons concerned. the emphasis on the protection of unaccompanied minors seems to me to be particularly important in this area.
in writing. after more than four years of tough negotiations with the council, this vote on the remaining four items of the asylum package marks a remarkable step forward and finally gives the green light to the establishment of a genuine european asylum system. the new system provides for common time limits for processing asylum applications, stricter rules on staff training, better access to information, better supervision of detention, the widespread use of suspensive remedies, responses tailored to vulnerable persons such as victims of torture or unaccompanied minors, etc. - all improvements that will address the identified shortcomings and take the process of harmonising asylum further. while i regret that we have not achieved an even more ambitious and protective reform (because of some of the points that were lost in the negotiations with the states), i welcome these votes which mark a historic breakthrough! the transposition of these regulations and directives and the effective application of these rights of applicants for international protection will now have to be monitored. we have a duty to welcome these people into the european union, with respect for their dignity and fundamental rights.
in writing. i supported the recommendation for second reading by my colleague cecilia wikström in the plenary on 12 june. this recommendation was aimed at increasing the efficiency of the dublin system and ensuring the highest standards of protection for persons falling under the dublin procedure. at the same time, it aimed to address situations where reception capacities and asylum systems are under particular pressure. the compromises reached with the other political groups were satisfactory. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text by parliament.
in writing. the dublin ii regulation establishes the criteria for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for international protection. however, there are cases where the application of this regulation is so complex that a revision is now necessary. i voted in favour of this text because it provides for greater clarity on the distribution of procedures between member states and a single ground for detention (a serious risk of absconding). i also welcome the text in that it guarantees procedural rights for applicants, such as extended family reunification opportunities for unaccompanied minors and free legal assistance in the event of a challenge to a transfer decision to another member state.
in writing. the adoption of this revision of the dublin ii regulation is fundamental. it provides for greater clarity as to the distribution of the examination of applications for international protection between member states. i also welcome the establishment of an early warning mechanism which will enable us to detect problems that may arise as a result of high migratory pressures in advance so that we can anticipate them and, if necessary, provide assistance to the countries concerned.
in writing. sylvie guillaume recommended that the council's position be adopted at first reading. the commission's proposal on the granting and withdrawal of international protection aims to address certain weaknesses in the system which have been identified. i, like most of my colleagues, approved of this recommendation.
in writing. the report is part of the project to create a european asylum system common to the member states. in order to enable member states to respond to and process asylum applications, the rules currently in force have been amended on the maximum duration of asylum procedures, on the clarity of the procedure to be followed, etc. in view of the objectives of these improvements, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of a new european asylum system, which will set common procedures and time limits for processing asylum applications and minimum rights for those arriving in the european union. at present, there is no time limit imposed on member states to decide on an asylum application, we had to regulate this area of legal vacuum by imposing common time limits on the processing of asylum applications and stricter rules on the training of staff in contact with asylum seekers. the number of asylum seekers in the eu is increasing, and it was essential to ensure that they were welcomed and their applications processed in a proper manner.
in writing. with this text, we are putting an end to some of the weaknesses in our current system of granting and withdrawing international protection. now our protection standards will be clearer and more uniform, so this is a first step towards a common asylum procedure, which would greatly simplify procedures for those who urgently need it. i particularly welcome the emphasis on speeding up procedures and protecting minors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to fill the gaps in the procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status. the establishment of a clear and simple procedure is beneficial both for asylum seekers and for the member states. in order to improve the situation of asylum seekers in europe and to respect their rights, they must be able to benefit from a fair, fast and efficient procedure. the harmonization of the procedure at european level also helps to strengthen the capacity of member states to report potential abuses of our asylum system.
in writing. after more than four years of tough negotiations with the council, this vote on the remaining four items of the asylum package marks a remarkable step forward and finally gives the green light to the establishment of a genuine european asylum system. the new system provides for common time limits for processing asylum applications, stricter rules on staff training, better access to information, better supervision of detention, the widespread use of suspensive remedies, responses tailored to vulnerable persons such as victims of torture or unaccompanied minors, etc. - all improvements that will address the identified shortcomings and take the process of harmonising asylum further. while i regret that we have not achieved an even more ambitious and protective reform (because of some of the points that were lost in the negotiations with the states), i welcome these votes which mark a historic breakthrough! the transposition of these regulations and directives and the effective application of these rights of applicants for international protection will now have to be monitored. we have a duty to welcome these people into the european union, with respect for their dignity and fundamental rights.
in writing. i supported the recommendation for second reading by my colleague sylvie guillaume in the plenary on 12 june. the aim of this recommendation was to simplify and clarify the rules on asylum law while ensuring higher quality and more uniform standards for the reception of asylum seekers throughout the union. it also aimed to better combat potential abuses and to improve the quality of decisions from the outset of the procedure. i'm glad you did.
in writing. in order to avoid divergent legislation between member states, the european union may adopt directives which set a framework to be respected while leaving a margin of manoeuvre for the states to achieve this. as regards asylum, each state still has its own procedure, which creates obvious differences within the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this text because it seeks to fill these deficiencies in the procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status by introducing minimum standards which considerably improve the situation of all asylum seekers.
in writing. by adopting the asylum package, we are establishing common european rules to ensure decent treatment of asylum seekers, while at the same time putting in place clear rules to prevent and deter abuse of our asylum system. i welcome the introduction of individual interviews with each asylum seeker and the identification of the most vulnerable asylum seekers. this is a big step. but we also have given ourselves the means to better prevent abuse of asylum systems. accelerated procedures for processing asylum applications are possible in cases where an application is manifestly inadmissible or unfounded, or where false documents have been submitted.
mr president, we are experiencing a violent economic crisis, the term of which no one here knows. that is the importance and the need for a european food solidarity system and, more than ever, europe must give concrete expression to this solidarity by maintaining its existence in line with the needs that are increasing every month. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of a mandatory contribution by the member states to the fund for food aid to the most deprived. today, 18 million europeans depend on meals distributed by associations, the vast majority of which are made up of volunteers. the volunteers should not be penalized for their work by an increase in administrative burdens, as is foreseen in the next aid programme. i also reiterated the need for the programme to be at least as large as the previous period, i.e. eur 3.5 billion. the united states spends $100 billion on aid to the poorest of the poor. why should the programme be reduced by 40% compared to the previous period, when the union budget would only be reduced by 3% for the period 2014-2020? solidarity is one of the most challenged european values today. the negotiations now under way between the european commission, the member states and the european parliament must express, reaffirm our commitment to this value.
in writing. in its europe 2020 strategy, the european union set itself the target of reducing by 20 million the number of european citizens living in poverty or social exclusion. to achieve this priority objective, the eu can and must rely on the fead. like my group, i believe that the sum of eur 2.5 billion allocated to the fead will not be sufficient to deal with the disastrous social consequences of the economic crisis. on the other hand, there has been a major debate within my own political group on whether participation in the fead should be compulsory or voluntary. the french delegation and i agree that no state should be able to shirk its responsibilities in the fight against poverty. that is why we have committed ourselves to a strong fead with mandatory participation by the member states. i would like to commend the outstanding work and unwavering commitment of my colleagues elisabeth morin-chartier and philippe boulland, and more generally of the entire french epp delegation. i am proud to be part of a delegation which has fought tirelessly to ensure that europe stands by the most deprived, to provide them with protection and support.
in writing. i welcome the vote in favour of a new 'mandatory' fund for the poorest, with €3.5 billion over the next seven years. that is a strong signal that we are giving today as a co-legislator. the stakes are high, given that almost a quarter of the european population is at risk of poverty and that in france 8.6 million people live below the poverty line. in the face of a social emergency affecting all european countries, the european fund for aid to the most deprived (efad) is of paramount importance: it is one of the only solidarity instruments directly targeted at the most deprived in the eu. the efad should be appropriately funded for the period 2014-2020, i.e. at least eur 500 million per year. the fund must also remain 'mandatory', i.e. it must be available to all europeans, as the fight against poverty and social exclusion is one of the eu's fundamental objectives. that is the message we are sending to the council, where the negotiations are about to begin. the heads of state and government must now assume their duty of solidarity towards the most vulnerable. in order to cope with the absolute emergency in which more and more europeans find themselves, the future of aid to the most deprived must be secured.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in 2010, some 160 million people, or 25% of europeans, were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in 2011, 19 million europeans benefited from the european fund for aid to the most deprived and the number of countries participating in the fund increased from 9 in 2001 to 20 in 2012. in view of the precarious situation and extreme poverty in which millions of europeans live, it was decided to allocate 3.5 billion to this fund. the european fund for the most deprived has a positive impact on the health, employment and social inclusion of the most deprived. although the report contains shortcomings, particularly as regards the amount of 3.5 billion allocated to the fund, which is insufficient to achieve the objectives pursued, namely to help the poorest europeans and the idea of compulsory participation by the member states, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the report calls for the budget allocated to the fead to be at least €3.5 billion instead of the €2.5 billion proposed by the commission and the member states. participation in this fund will be compulsory, as in the case of any european fund. and most importantly, if the member states decide not to use the fund, the budget must remain available for the poorest. the co-financing rate for the programme is set at 85% of eligible expenditure, with a possibility to increase this rate to 95% for the member states most affected by the crisis. the scope of the fead will be extended to allow not only food distribution but also to address the basic material needs of the poorest citizens of the eu. we will now begin discussions with the council. the threat of a council majority in recent days has not prevented parliament from expressing a clear and firm position today on the need for the fund to be set up by the beginning of 2014 and to have a budget commensurate with the solidarity stake it entails.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the costello report on the european fund for the most deprived. a number of points for which i have fought alongside my french colleagues in the epp have been taken up in the report. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the work of the european external action service. i also felt it was very important that this fund should not be set up on a voluntary basis: unfortunately, all member states have people in need, and that would have given the impression of european solidarity in several ways.
in writing. at a time when 80 million europeans are at risk of poverty, i supported the parliament's report, which, in the context of the multiannual budget negotiations, sends a strong signal to the council on the european fund for the most deprived (efad). the report adopted today takes up many of the points for which the french socialists have been fighting since 2011. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also called for european co-financing to be set at 85%. i am also glad that we have asked for compulsory participation in the fund by all the member states: to accept the optional nature of participation was to deny that poverty affects european citizens in all countries and to jeopardize the very existence of the fund. parliament also called for the management of the fund to be simplified in order to reduce the administrative burden on the organisations managing the fund, which is crucial for the associations to be able to concentrate on the very heart of their mission.
in writing. by voting in favour of maintaining the european fund for the poorest, parliament has made a clear gesture towards the most vulnerable citizens. the amount of €2.5 billion proposed by the commission is totally insufficient, and at least €1 billion more will be needed to enable the fund to fulfil its missions. i have been mobilized throughout the procedure to ask that it be given sufficient budget and that its missions not be dispersed to enable the associations to continue to carry out their primary mission of food aid. i will remain active in this case to defend the interests of those who suffer, and the needs of the associations.
in writing. in 2011, almost 120 million europeans, or nearly a quarter of the total european population, were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in the face of such a social emergency, the creation of a european fund for aid to the most deprived (fead) was essential. it is one of the only solidarity instruments in the european union that is directed at the poorest and it is a concrete expression of europe's commitment to solidarity with its most vulnerable citizens. for the period 2014-2020, the fead must be appropriately funded, i.e. at least eur 500 million per year. it must also retain its mandatory character, i.e. if member states decide not to use the fund, the budget must remain available to the poorest. it is essential to show citizens that the fight against poverty and social exclusion is at the heart of the european union's objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which establishes the european fund for the most deprived. the national or local organisations providing food aid in our regions operated for a large part of their activities through the €3.5 billion european food distribution programme. as the programme is coming to an end at the end of 2014, and in particular in order to establish genuine european solidarity, it is important that the european union maintains the budget of eur 3.5 billion for the poorest european citizens. this will enable food aid organisations to continue to help the most deprived citizens.
in writing. i voted for the costello report in favour of simplifying and extending aid to the poorest. but i fear that the final result, even if bitterly negotiated, will not live up to expectations, especially those of charities. i fear that we will end up with reduced amounts, even as poverty explodes. i am afraid that the mechanisms for accessing the fund will remain extremely complicated, because it is the european union's nature to build up complex mechanisms to ensure a parsimonious and clientelist distribution of member states' money. i am afraid that the food aid, which is of the utmost importance, will be diluted in all the other important but less vital measures which can be financed by this money. for reasons both legal and selfish, you have abolished a system which was satisfactory and replaced it with another, which will, i am sadly convinced, be much less effective. if this were the case, the best solution would be to transfer not only the entire responsibility for this area but also the corresponding sums to the states. and ask the european commission to stop meddling in this.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european fund for the most deprived (efad). the fund will be used to finance food banks, replacing the former food programme for the most deprived (pead). the european parliament has sent a clear message to the council: the budget for this fund must be at least equivalent to the last two years of the programme. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. meps also voted in favour of solidarity: with this text, not 18 but 28 countries will be involved in the distribution of food and material goods to the most deprived people, especially the homeless. negotiations will be initiated with the council. the latter will have to hear the strong message from parliament.
in writing. our european parliament has just reaffirmed its support for aid to the poorest, voting in favour of a new 'mandatory' aid fund for the poorest of the poor, with €3.5 billion over the next seven years. i welcome this vote, which i strongly supported along with my colleagues. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. it is a victory which is essential to the maintenance of solidarity in europe. but our fight is not yet over. while parliament has sent a clear message about its commitment to the most disadvantaged, negotiations at eu council level are currently blocked by several member states refusing to contribute sufficiently to the fund. we must therefore continue to fight for the budget for this programme.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european fund for the most deprived (fead) for food and material assistance to the poorest citizens. it will replace the european food aid programme for the most deprived (eafp) and will be linked to the european social fund. parliament considered that the fead budget should amount to eur 3,5 billion for the period 2014-2020 to contribute to the europe of solidarity. it would have been unacceptable for this fund to become optional and the vote confirmed its mandatory nature for all countries. the fund will target the poorest individuals or households directly. it will thus enable the union to continue its efforts to reduce social exclusion in europe. i would also like to express my satisfaction and gratitude to the charitable associations which work for the most deprived and which must be able to benefit from this fund. forty-three million europeans cannot afford to eat meat, poultry or fish (or the vegetarian equivalent) every other day, which the who defines as a basic need. children are particularly vulnerable to malnutrition and poor eating habits can affect their health.
in writing. since the start of the negotiations on the european fund for the most deprived, i have always supported an ambitious position. 80 million citizens are at risk of poverty and it is the duty of the member states to provide for their needs. by voting in favour of this report, we have achieved several major advances, including an increase of €1 billion bringing the total budget allocated to the fund to €3.5 billion, the mandatory participation of member states, the priority given to food aid and administrative simplification which will make it easier for associations, often made up of volunteers, to benefit from this aid. we will remain firm in the negotiations with the council. while some member states continue to oppose this aid, the european parliament has adopted a clear position, determined to defend the principle of solidarity.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's broad support for the creation of the fund for the most deprived, although the socialist group has not always had a very clear position on this subject. we have reached a new stage here. the adoption by the european parliament of the text authorising the creation of a fund to help the most deprived on wednesday 12 june comes at the end of a difficult struggle which began in 2011 and in which president sarkozy had invested a lot of his time. i myself tabled many amendments in favour of restoring a significant budget of at least eur 3.5 billion and giving priority to food aid. however, we still have to win the council battle where some member states continue to block, but i am hopeful given that a majority of elected representatives and citizens are defending this fund, the most eloquent symbol of european solidarity, which could help to relieve the more than 18 million europeans and 4.8 million poor french people.
in writing. the report on the european fund for the most deprived (efad) was adopted by a large majority. the negotiations in the european parliament focused on two main points: the amount of the envelope and the voluntary or compulsory nature of the fead. i am pleased to note that parliament has opted for the fead to be made compulsory. however, when it comes to helping more than 40 million europeans, i regret that parliament has not taken a tougher stance on the eafrd budget. it should be borne in mind that, unlike the eafrd, the eafrd will now have a wider scope of intervention: food deprivation, homelessness and material deprivation of children. the new fund would therefore have been entitled to a budget of more than eur 3.5 billion. this is all the more damaging since parliament will now have to negotiate with the council the amount of the envelope. however, a blocking minority in the council is doing everything possible to reduce the budget to below 2.5 billion. parliament should have taken a tougher stance on this before confronting the council in the trilogue negotiations. i'm sorry for what i did. that's why i decided not to.
in writing. the economic crisis we are experiencing highlights the importance of a european solidarity system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food aid is distributed in a fair and equitable manner. it is therefore necessary for the european union to set up a new food aid system which is as effective as the previous one. the text i voted in favour is a step in this direction, as it maintains european food aid at eur 3.5 billion for the next period and reduces the administrative burden of the aid programme. it also provides for mandatory participation by the member states in the fund, which is essential to ensure its sustainability and to avoid blocking minorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european fund for the most deprived (efad). first threatened by a blocking minority in parliament campaigning for the reduction of the fead, we managed to maintain the budget for the current period, namely an amount of 3.5 billion euros for 2014-2020. in addition, all member states will be able to benefit from this fund in order to meet the needs of people who have fallen into extreme poverty, a phenomenon which the economic crisis is only exacerbating. i welcome the position of the european parliament, which is promoting a europe of solidarity.
in writing. this report allows for the continuation of european financing of aid to the poor, by creating a new european fund for aid to the poor (fead). the activities of the large associative networks of aid agencies depend to a large extent on the establishment of this fund. the funding guarantees required by the amended report should avoid any reduction in the allocations to associations, in order to mobilise a minimum of eur 3,5 billion from 2014 to 2020. this parliament's position should lead the council to reconsider its commitment of €2.5 billion, which is totally inadequate at the moment. this report does not go far enough, however, in simplifying the procedures proposed by the european commission for implementing the fund. these should not jeopardise the work of the associations, nor should they become hidden constraints to prevent the payment of aid.
in writing. the programme of aid to the most deprived (pead) set up in 1987 by the european union consisted of using the unsold cap to redistribute it to approved charitable associations. it was essential to maintain such a programme, because europe must now, more than ever, strengthen solidarity, which is one of its founding principles. the creation of a new aid programme was therefore a necessity for europe, not without reluctance. we had to send a strong signal to the remaining reluctant member states. however, the transition between the two programmes had to be smooth, and we had requirements: its budget was not to be cut drastically (the states wanted to reduce it by 40%!). food aid for the poorest could not be an option, it had to be a reality. with this vote, we have won a decisive victory. solidarity is and must remain a pillar of the union. negotiations with the council will now begin. i'll keep an eye out.
in writing. as an instrument of european solidarity, the european fund for the most deprived must be supported without reservation. by guaranteeing a vital fundamental right (access to sufficient, quality and balanced food), it creates a social link for its beneficiaries, while encouraging the exchange of good practice across europe. in addition to maintaining the envelope at the level of the current programme, i have spoken in favour of compulsory participation by the member states in this scheme. the financial contribution from the eafrd to the financing of the european solidarity corps is intended to cover the costs of the european solidarity corps in the event of a disaster, including the cost of the necessary equipment and supplies. finally, given the budget allocated to it, this fund must remain focused on food aid.
in writing. currently, 116 million people in the union are at risk of poverty or social exclusion and 40 million of them suffer from acute material deprivation. following the announced end of the european programme for aid to the most deprived (pead) in 2014, it was essential to find a new solution. the european fund for the most deprived (efmad) is intended to support the operation of the schemes set up by the member states to provide food, clothing and other basic goods to the most deprived persons. my colleagues and i have worked very hard to maintain the level of funding for this fund in relation to the eipp (eur 3.5 billion) and i am very pleased that we have achieved this. we now await rapid approval by the council so that the eafrd can take over from the eafrd without interruption.
in writing. i voted in favour of keeping the european fund for aid to the most deprived (fead) at eur 3.5 billion, against the heads of state and government, including françois hollande, who in february last year imposed a substantial cut of almost 30%. 116 million people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union. of these, some 40 million suffer from acute material deprivation. the meps sent a strong political message: europe cannot let its citizens starve to death. the mobilisation of the ump elected representatives among their colleagues, in collaboration with the charitable associations, paid off. however, the fight is not over and negotiations with the council are about to begin. citizens must know that it is not the eu that threatens food aid but the sum of their own governments!
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the european fund for the most deprived (efad). it's a victory for the socialists. sarkozy had agreed to make him disappear, but we forced the commission to reopen the case. we have also obtained an increase of eur 1 billion in the budget allocation, bringing it to eur 3.5 billion. another important point is that the participation of the member states in this fund will be compulsory and not voluntary. voluntary action would have weakened it, since not all the member states would have contributed to it, and would have emptied it of its meaning: european solidarity. finally, we wanted to simplify and streamline procedures. first, the criteria for eligibility are broadened. the fund will then be financed by the eu to the tune of 85%, which will simplify its implementation. finally, administrative constraints, operating rules and management systems will also be simplified. 80 million europeans are at risk of poverty. it was inconceivable in these times of crisis that the union should abandon its most deprived citizens. we must nevertheless remain vigilant and ensure that the council respects parliament's vote.
in writing. in 2010, almost a quarter of europeans were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the union therefore needs strong solidarity policies more than ever. that is why the socialists fought to replace and extend the european programme of food aid to the most deprived which has existed since 1987 by creating the european fund for aid to the most deprived (fead). the outcome of the votes in plenary is in line with our ambitious position: the increase of €1 billion in the budget allocation to €3.5 billion was supported, as was the compulsory participation of the member states. in addition, the eligibility criteria have been broadened to be able to help as many citizens as possible, and the administrative procedures for the voluntary and charitable sector have been simplified. the edf is vital for nearly 80 million citizens at risk of poverty, but the adoption of the report sends a strong message to all europeans. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − almost 120 million europeans are still at risk of poverty and social exclusion. although latvia has successfully overcome the financial and economic crisis, the country still has a significant number of poor people. the european central bank has provided large loans to member states in financial difficulty. however, the standard of living in these countries is still significantly higher than in the new eu member states. for example, both cyprus and greece have gdp per capita twice that of latvia, and the same was true of the minimum wage. this is why all eu member states need to show solidarity by supporting first and foremost those member states whose population is the most economically deprived. the new european fund for the most deprived is an important instrument to mitigate the impact of the economic and social crisis and a practical demonstration of the concern for the most vulnerable people in the eu, which is why i supported its creation with a positive vote in the plenary. the fund will replace the current food distribution programme in 2014-2020, under which the poorest in latvia also received food packages to provide themselves with a daily meal. it is also important that the funding allocated ensures that, in addition to food, the most deprived people receive a wider range of support, including clothing, footwear and other humanitarian aid items. i therefore supported the proposal in the report to increase the funding from the commission's proposed eur 2.5 billion to eur 3.5 billion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the european fund for the most deprived. i should like to return to the vicissitudes of this fund, which some states have wanted to abolish and which the council wants to reduce in a way that i would like to call shameful in view of the economic and social consequences of austerity policies. today, almost 120 million europeans are at risk of poverty, and the number is growing there is therefore an urgent need to act, even if this fund is only a palliative. i welcome the hard work that my colleagues younous omarjee and patrick the hyaric have put into their committees over the last few months. they have got the european parliament to vote in favour of keeping the fund at 3.5 billion and support the need to simplify procedures as the associations wanted. this text, adopted by a large majority, is therefore a strong signal to the european council. the battle is not over, however, and negotiations with the council will be difficult. let's keep our eyes open.
in writing. i welcome the very good result of the vote on the european fund for the most deprived (efad), which confirms parliament's wish for a budget of eur 3.5 billion for the next seven years. the increase in the fund will help provide homeless people and children with sufficient, quality and balanced food. in the current context of economic and social crisis, the fead needs to be renewed because it is a symbol of european solidarity, which has long been defended by charitable associations and their volunteers. i voted against the reduction of the european budget for the fight against poverty and for a mandatory fund for all the member states. european mutual aid is not an option but a duty in a community of destiny. the work is not finished, however, because parliament must now negotiate with the council and the commission. i am, however, hopeful that a genuine solidarity fund for the poor will finally be established in a few weeks' time, and i have confidence in french ministers marie-arlette carlotti and thierry repentin to impose on the council a vision of solidarity and social cohesion in the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which updates a 2000 regulation establishing eurodac (european dactyloscopy), the european database for fingerprints of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. the main purpose of the text is to incorporate the provisions of the lisbon treaty into this regulation. i voted against an amendment by the gue/ngl and greens/efa groups which sought to remove all the provisions allowing access to eurodac for law enforcement purposes.
in writing. the eurodac system allows fingerprints to be compared of asylum seekers from third countries or stateless persons. the system aims to prevent, detect and investigate potential terrorist threats and serious crime. the revised text will allow immediate access to the eurodac database, without prior and mandatory checks, to data on approved asylum seekers, and access to eurodac for law enforcement authorities. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the macovei report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the creation of the 'eurodac' system, a fingerprint database to allow comparisons between european countries. police forces in the member states and europol will now have access to the fingerprints of asylum seekers in order to combat terrorism and serious crime. we have ensured that personal data is protected, including by ensuring that these safeguards are used only for this purpose of fingerprint comparison and thus prevent any form of misuse.
in writing. eurodac allows the european union to record the fingerprints of asylum seekers: it is an essential tool for us to manage applications, effectively protect applicants and prevent abusive applications. in order to respond to the developments, particularly technological, which have taken place since its entry into force, we are adapting it to improve its functioning, particularly in terms of data protection. this is a necessary step forward for the efficient and fair processing of asylum applications in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which extends the possibility for member states to use eurodac. this database would allow member states to compare the fingerprints of asylum seekers across the european union and to determine whether an asylum seeker or an irregular migrant has already lodged an asylum application in another member state. in order to combat terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences, national police authorities really need an effective european system for comparing fingerprints and this is exactly what this text is now putting in place.
in writing. after more than four years of tough negotiations with the council, this vote on the remaining four items of the asylum package marks a remarkable step forward and finally gives the green light to the establishment of a genuine european asylum system. the new system provides for common time limits for processing asylum applications, stricter rules on staff training, better access to information, better supervision of detention, the widespread use of suspensive remedies, responses tailored to vulnerable persons such as victims of torture or unaccompanied minors, etc. all these improvements will address the shortcomings identified and further the process of harmonising asylum. i regret that we have not achieved an even more ambitious and protective reform (since several points were lost in the negotiations with the states), but i welcome these votes which mark a historic step forward! the transposition of these regulations and directives and the effective application of these rights of applicants for international protection will now have to be monitored. we have a duty to welcome these people into the european union, with respect for their dignity and fundamental rights.
in writing. access to the eurodac database by national police forces and europol has long been requested by the states, which have clearly conditioned their efforts on the other files in the asylum package. the s&d group welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of eurodac to law enforcement agencies, but felt that it was not appropriate to do so. access to the file will only be possible as a last resort, when the law enforcement agencies have failed to find the information they need in their own systems or in those of other member states. eurodac will also be allowed only if an asylum seeker is suspected of serious crime or terrorism. the consultation of eurodac will therefore not be systematic. parliament will now have to ensure that the commission closely monitors eurodac, and in particular to assess the reality of stigmatisation of applicants and the negative impact on the integration of refugees into their host society.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague monica luisa macovei in the plenary on 12 june. this report focused on the redesign of eurodac on fingerprint comparison in order to update it, make it more efficient and more consistent with the eu asylum acquis. it stresses in particular the need for access to eurodac to be strictly regulated. it also stressed the need to delete immediately data which had been transmitted to eurodac, as soon as the results of the comparison of data had been transmitted to the member state of origin. the report was adopted by 502 votes in favour, 126 against and 56 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the eurodac regulation, which has been in force since 2003, stores the fingerprints of asylum seekers over the age of 14 and of irregular migrants apprehended on the territory of a member state or when crossing a border. this database provides valuable information to member states on the quality of asylum seekers already listed, but is not accessible to europol and the police services. however, it is necessary that law enforcement agencies have access to this database in order to be as fit as possible to combat terrorism and serious crime. i voted in favour of this text because it provides for this possibility.
in writing. i supported the report on the creation of the eurodac system for comparing fingerprints. created in 2000, eurodac is now a key database to be used in the fight against organised crime in europe. we have therefore authorised access to eurodac resources by member states' services and europol, to support their actions against criminal activities. in this context, eurodac should facilitate the prevention and detection of terrorist offences, trafficking in human beings, criminal networks or other serious criminal offences.
in writing. the commission proposes to extend the use of the eurodac system for comparing the fingerprints of asylum seekers for law enforcement purposes. this is a misuse of a tool which is intended to enable the right of asylum to be properly applied. this leads to all asylum seekers being suspected of crime and even terrorism. the need for police or judicial authorities to access the system has not been proven. the parliament's report makes some timid corrections. the commission has also proposed to amend the data protection rules to include the right to access data for law enforcement purposes. but these marginal improvements are not enough to remove the text's stigmatizing logic for asylum seekers. i vote against it.
in writing. the creation of the eurodac system for comparing fingerprints will allow for better care of migrants within the european union, in particular by moving towards the harmonisation of asylum law for the different member states on this issue. this text, which was the result of long negotiations between the european council, the european commission and the european parliament, preserves the sustainability of reception systems in each member state and ensures respect for and safety of migrants. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to improve the efficiency of the system for recording the fingerprints of asylum seekers which has been in use since 2003 under the dublin convention. however, it goes far beyond the mere issue of asylum management, by giving national law enforcement authorities and europol the possibility to use these databases, containing the fingerprints of asylum seekers, in order to prevent and combat crime and terrorist acts. this opens the door to many deviations and shows an undeniable distrust of asylum seekers, who are in fact considered potential criminals and terrorists. these same asylum seekers are also receiving poor reception conditions on european soil. i am opposed to this stigmatising process and i am against this text.
in writing. i voted against this agreement between the council and the european parliament revising the eurodac regulation on the fingerprinting of asylum seekers. eurodac was set up in 2000, even before the attacks in new york, which, in the name of the fight against terrorism, have served as a pretext for so many regressions in public freedoms. the revision will, in particular, allow member states' law enforcement agencies and europol to have access to the eurodac database, which will be kept for three years after the applicant's refugee status has been recognised. this legislation therefore creates a total confusion between asylum seekers and irregular immigrants. as all ngos say, this is a challenge to the right of asylum and therefore a violation of the eu's international obligations. the negative opinion of the edps on the grounds that it constitutes a serious intrusion in the rights of these persons did not change the inflexible attitude of the member states. i cannot, in principle, support such a system and i regret that a large majority of the european parliament has adopted this revision. asylum seekers are thus criminalised and the european union increasingly considers asylum seekers as fraudsters.
in writing. in 2011, at the instigation of former president nicolas sarkozy, the european commission presented two texts aimed at improving the functioning of this area. the first text, followed by my colleague renate weber, expands the situations in which member states are allowed to re-establish internal borders. at present, internal borders can be re-established in the event of serious threats to public order or internal security. in addition to these situations, there are serious and persistent shortcomings in external border control. i voted in favour of this text, which will improve the functioning of the schengen area and thereby promote the free movement of european citizens. let us be clear: this is not a question of turning europe into a fortress closed in on itself. however, i believe that the dysfunctions that occurred in 2011 following the popular uprisings in tunisia and libya have demonstrated that a re-design of the schengen system was unavoidable.
in writing. in order to respond to critical situations, such as the massive influx of immigrants following the arab spring, the amendment of the schengen borders code became a necessity. the changes made concern the rules on external border controls, the possibility of reintroducing internal schengen border controls, which should only be reintroduced as a last resort and with a view to adopting measures stabilising the situation at the relevant part of the border. the aim was to strike a balance between respect for the prerogatives of the states and the establishment of common rules between all the states. the result was satisfactory and could ensure solidarity between the states, so i voted in favour of the legislative resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reform of the schengen borders code, as part of the overhaul of the schengen governance package. the border code already allows for the reintroduction of border controls in the event of exceptional circumstances that constitute a threat to public order and national security. the reintroduction of controls therefore remains an exception and a measure of last resort. if member states reintroduce controls, justified by a serious threat to public policy or internal security for more than 30 days, the commission, after consulting parliament, will have to decide on the appropriateness of such controls and their possible extension. free movement is one of the eu's most impressive achievements. 62% of the european population believe that this is the most positive result of 50 years of european integration.
in writing. we have demonstrated that it is sometimes necessary to temporarily reintroduce controls at our national borders to deal with a particularly difficult situation for our security or for public order. the aim of this text is not to go back on one of the foundations of the european union, it is not to call into question our freedom of movement, it is above all to guarantee our security and public order in exceptional situations. i therefore support the measures contained in this text and the ambition for a decision-making system that is both flexible and responsible, and which includes the european parliament. the aim is to ensure effective democratic oversight of this mechanism.
in writing. the lack of solidarity shown by some european countries in april 2011, considering that the management of tunisian refugees on the island of lampedusa was the sole responsibility of italy, has seriously challenged the schengen acquis, one of the eu's major achievements. more recently, the syrian tragedy and its consequences in terms of refugees have also once again demonstrated that securing the external borders must be everyone's business. it is high time to renew the spirit of european solidarity. europe must have a common immigration strategy, which is humane and reasonable. a state cannot unilaterally decide to close its borders even exceptionally as denmark did in 2011. this is not legally or politically acceptable. the establishment of a european mechanism for the reintroduction of temporary control based on the analysis of the schengen acquis is therefore a more appropriate solution. this new mechanism will thus help to preserve the schengen area as an area without internal borders. subject to the democratic control of the european parliament, its implementation will have all its democratic legitimacy, an indispensable prerequisite for the proper functioning of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which specifies the conditions for the re-establishment of internal borders. by giving member states the possibility of reintroducing internal border controls on a timely basis, the schengen area now has the means to react quickly to the various threats to public policy or internal security, without calling into question the acquis of the convention which european citizens hold so dear.
in writing. i did not vote for the weber report or the coehlo report on the possibility for states to re-establish controls at all their borders because in fact this possibility is abusive. the compromise reached does not go as far as the commission's aberrant claims that it alone decides on the re-establishment of internal borders. but giving him the right to make an unannounced inspection on the spot to ensure that there was no actual control is inadmissible. nor is there a 'collegial' assessment of the need for safeguard measures, or the strict limitation of such measures in the event of a serious and unforeseeable event. we cannot trust institutions that consider that an influx of migrants at the external borders cannot by definition be considered a threat or that a wave of terrorist attacks can be contained in 10 days. the schengen agreements must be abolished and, as a first step, the absolute right of the member states to enforce safeguard clauses according to their own assessments of the threats and circumstances must be recognised.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation. it is necessary to provide a common response to situations having a significant impact on the internal security of the european union or of one or more of its member states by allowing the reintroduction of internal border control in exceptional circumstances. the current schengen system, which is based on an intergovernmental peer review system, is not strong enough to address the weaknesses of some member states. the regulation allows a member state to re-establish border controls for a limited period of time when a serious threat to public policy or internal security requires immediate action. any extension of the period will then be decided in a coordinated manner.
in writing. in september 2011, at the instigation of nicolas sarkozy, the european commission presented two proposals for reform of the schengen area. the current migratory pressures and successive enlargements called for urgent adaptations of the schengen system. it's a done deal now. the european parliament adopted on wednesday 12 june two recommendations on schengen governance and the clarification of the conditions for the reintroduction of borders in the event of a failure to control external borders. we cannot put at risk the principle of free movement of european citizens, which is one of the pillars and cardinal principles of the european union. this reform reaffirms the principle of free movement while strengthening border security and allowing the temporary reintroduction of internal borders when public order and the security of our citizens are threatened. we must, however, remain vigilant about the effectiveness of these reforms, which must be assessed rapidly, and consider, if necessary, complementary measures, particularly as regards the role of the frontex agency, which must be placed at the heart of the system.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague, renate weber, in the plenary on 12 june. the report aimed to amend the schengen borders code established by regulation no 562/2006 in order to extend the possibilities of temporarily introducing border controls. the report was adopted by 506 votes in favour, 121 against and 25 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the creation of the schengen area is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of the european union. the schengen code states that the abolition of internal border controls remains the principle, while the temporary reintroduction is the exception. however, at a time when illegal immigration is being debated within the european union, it was necessary to revise the code. i voted in favour of this text because it provides for reintroduction if there are serious threats, foreseeable or not, to public policy or security, or when the member state concerned does not bring its external border management into line in a serious or persistent way.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the reintroduction of internal border controls. within the schengen area, which comprises 22 member states and 4 non-eu countries, the principle of free movement allows citizens of the states parties to cross borders without being subject to permanent border controls. however, in certain exceptional cases where there is a clear threat to public order, governments may decide to re-establish these controls for a maximum period of six months. in order to preserve the integrity of this fundamental right, we recommend that this decision be taken in a collegial manner at european level, with uniform rules for assessing threats to public order.
in writing. we have gained two things with this reform of schengen governance: the fundamental freedom of movement of european citizens is preserved and the security of the schengen area is strengthened. we have given ourselves the means to react and to reinforce border controls if necessary, so that citizens do not have to bear the price of porous borders. if a shortcoming is found at our borders, it will be remedied: the member state concerned will have to act immediately and put in place an action plan to strengthen border control at the borders in question. if such a failure were to persist, and if the borders were to give way to too much migratory pressure, then it would be possible to temporarily reintroduce internal border controls to protect our european citizens from uncontrolled flows. it is not to be naïve to say that there are very specific situations which call for the temporary and careful re-establishment of frontiers. that is why the member states are also rightly free to temporarily re-establish internal borders for reasons of security and public order, because the safety of european citizens must come first.
in writing. the possibility of temporarily reintroducing internal border controls already exists for the states. this report extends the powers of the commission, which has no legal authority to decide, validate and renew such decisions. this text reinforces the cases of restrictions on the freedom of individuals. at the same time, the european union continues to encourage the full free movement of capital and goods and to encourage the posting of workers to enable the exploitation of the poorest. this hypocritical imbalance is unbearable. i vote against it.
in writing. this text takes a responsible approach by giving member states the possibility to temporarily re-establish borders within the european union, in particular in the event of a threat to public policy or internal security, while giving the european commission the power to monitor the impartiality of inspections and thus to strengthen mutual trust between member states. i have always imagined the european union in this light and therefore voted in favour of mrs weber's report.
in writing. freedom of movement for european citizens is a fundamental freedom guaranteed by the treaties. it should therefore not be subject to any restrictions. a limitation of the rights granted to european citizens would in fact be a challenge to the acquis communautaire. the text allows member states to reinstate border controls in the event of 'threats to public policy or internal security', but does not specify what is meant by this term, thus leaving member states a certain latitude in this relatively vague framework. this is tantamount to leaving the reintroduction of controls to the discretion of the member states, which could abuse this possibility to control large migratory flows at the borders. although safeguards have been introduced, i doubt that they will be sufficient in the face of states which never lack imagination when it comes to circumventing the law. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. since 1993, citizens of the schengen area have been able to move freely. it is an inalienable right that we cannot question. but this system was almost obsolete. the de facto solidarity between all the member states was not very real. we had to complete the system, so as not to leave it to the eurosceptics. with this vote, we have won a battle. on the one hand, we are preserving our model of free movement, but on the other hand we are strengthening the security of our borders. that is what the people asked for. effective border control can now be examined at european level. in return, member states will be able to impose the closure of a border with another state which is a little too lax on its own borders. and each member state is in control if an extreme emergency situation forces it to temporarily re-establish border controls. the essential thing we must always keep in mind is to strike a balance between free movement and the safety of our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of a report which endorses the changes to the governance of the schengen area that nicolas sarkozy wants to see in order to allow for better border controls. this reform was a response to problems encountered at the french-italian border in the face of the massive influx of tunisian refugees to whom italy had issued non-compliant residence permits. in the event of a member state's failure to control the external borders, recommendations shall be adopted by the council on a proposal from the commission. the member state concerned must then present an action plan to remedy it after one month or three months depending on the severity of the deficiencies identified. similarly, border controls may be reintroduced in exceptional circumstances which may represent a serious threat to public policy or internal security. these measures do not in any way call into question the schengen acquis, but rather make it possible to correct its shortcomings.
in writing. although i regret that the final texts are less ambitious than the s&d group wanted, i voted in favour of the asylum package as it brings considerable advances compared to the existing texts. until now, european legislative instruments allowed a wide margin of appreciation, which explains the differences between member states in asylum matters, in particular on the reception conditions of applicants. the texts therefore have the merit of fixing certain rules that were lacking, by establishing a strategy combining quality of asylum systems, respect for rights and efficiency of the decision-making process. i would stress, however, the need to ensure close monitoring of the interpretation and implementation of the package at national level. in particular, vigilance is needed on issues relating to unaccompanied minors, the effectiveness and efficiency of the identification mechanism, detention, access to eurodac data by police forces and access to the procedure.
in writing. in 2011, at the instigation of former president nicolas sarkozy, the european commission presented two texts aimed at improving the functioning of this area. the text in question sets up a more transparent mechanism and more objective rules for evaluating border management within the schengen area. it includes unannounced visits by national experts to inspect the management of internal borders. i voted in favour of this report, which will improve the functioning of the schengen area and thus promote the free movement of european citizens. let us be clear: this is not a question of turning europe into a fortress closed in on itself. however, i believe that the dysfunctions that occurred in 2011 following the popular uprisings in tunisia and libya have demonstrated that a re-design of the schengen system was unavoidable.
in writing. the schengen area allows european citizens to move freely within the area without being subject to border controls. this system can only function on the basis of mutual trust and respect for and application of the rules laid down in the schengen borders code. only an effective, i.e. more transparent, control mechanism based on community cooperation will make it possible to ensure that the schengen acquis is implemented by the states, and in the absence of it, to formulate recommendations. the objective of the mechanism is to guarantee and strengthen the free movement of european citizens within the schengen area. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the legislative resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the schengen evaluation mechanism, as part of the overhaul of the schengen governance package. the new evaluation mechanism aims to strengthen the free movement of citizens, reduce intergovernmental procedures for more european involvement and strengthen cooperation between the commission and the member states. free movement is one of the eu's most impressive achievements. 62% of the european population believe that this is the most positive result of 50 years of european integration.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which aims to address the weaknesses of the current intergovernmental system for evaluating schengen rules. the member states are thus not guaranteed to apply the schengen rules consistently. this report is a step in the right direction: the free movement of citizens should be strengthened by the new evaluation mechanism proposed, with more community involvement. the report also includes a requirement for transparency, with better access to information for parliament.
in writing. i support the ambition that we should develop a mechanism to ensure a more effective implementation of the schengen area. greater efficiency means not only unhindered travel for europeans, but also real control of immigration and concrete results in the fight against illegal immigration. it is essential to make these results more visible, to strengthen citizens' confidence in the european union.
in writing. the lack of solidarity shown by some european countries in april 2011, considering that the management of tunisian refugees on the island of lampedusa was the sole responsibility of italy, has seriously challenged the schengen acquis, one of the eu's major achievements. more recently, the syrian tragedy and its consequences in terms of refugees have also once again demonstrated that securing the external borders must be everyone's business. it is high time to renew the spirit of european solidarity. europe must have a common immigration strategy, which is humane and reasonable. a state cannot unilaterally decide to close its borders even exceptionally as denmark did in 2011. this is not legally or politically acceptable. the establishment of a european mechanism for the reintroduction of temporary control based on the analysis of the schengen acquis is therefore a more appropriate solution. this new mechanism will thus help to preserve the schengen area as an area without internal borders. subject to the democratic control of the european parliament, its implementation will have all its democratic legitimacy, which is an indispensable prerequisite.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for an improvement in the evaluation and monitoring mechanism for the application of schengen and thus an improvement in the governance of the schengen area. the schengen acquis, such as free movement, which is so important to european citizens, is essential to the functioning of the internal market and to european mobility. freedom of movement is an essential element of european citizenship. in order to ensure the efficiency of the system and the safety of citizens, the commission will now have to ensure that the member states respect the principle of freedom of movement.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague carlos caelho in the plenary on 12 june. the report aimed to create an evaluation mechanism to ensure that schengen rules are applied consistently by each member state, in particular to strengthen the free movement of citizens. the report was adopted by 526 votes in favour, 101 against and 55 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. for almost 20 years, the european union has created the schengen area, which allows european citizens to move from one state to another without internal border controls. however, when a state does not adequately control its external borders, the question of illegal immigration arises. i therefore voted in favour of this text because it creates a new mechanism for checking that the member states are properly managing external border controls, through visits, whether announced or not. the obligation for the state to present an action plan in the event of a failure has convinced me of the effectiveness of such a mechanism.
in writing. we have gained two things with this reform of schengen governance: the fundamental freedom of movement of european citizens is preserved and the security of the schengen area is strengthened. free movement is a foundation for the peoples of europe and for many it is a tangible expression of european citizenship. it is a fundamental freedom that our fears or quarrels cannot compromise. but this reform also enables us to strengthen the security of the schengen area. we now have an effective european mechanism for evaluating the schengen area. we can monitor our border control objectively, through european assessments by small groups of experts and field visits. this gives us better control of our external borders.
in writing. i reject the extension of the european commission's powers in the procedure for the reintroduction of temporary internal border controls. i cannot therefore support this report which endorses this procedure and devotes the commission's all-powerful powers to inspections.
in writing. the coelho report reflects my view of the european union and my beliefs. this report, which is the result of negotiations between the european council, the european commission and the european parliament, proposes to move away from purely intergovernmental control systems towards a more centralised mechanism for monitoring and evaluating policies in relation to the schengen agreements. this is an advantage and a step forward for the citizens of the european union, because they are protected from any bias from a member state which does not respect the rules in force. the reasons for this and the new guarantees it provides for the member states and the citizens of the european union lead me to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. the evaluation mechanism for monitoring the application of the schengen acquis, hitherto the responsibility of the member states, is transferred to the european institutions. the european commission would thus play a major role in the development of evaluation programmes and would be given new prerogatives. in addition, the report's many references to the frontex programme show that the use of force at the borders is being condoned in the unequal war against migrants. i can therefore only express my opposition to this report.
in writing. since 1993, citizens of the schengen area have been able to move freely. it is an inalienable right that we cannot question. but this system was almost obsolete. the de facto solidarity between all the member states was not very real. we had to complete the system, so as not to leave it to the eurosceptics. with this vote, we have won a battle. on the one hand, we are preserving our model of free movement, but on the other hand we are strengthening the security of our borders. that is what the people asked for. effective border control can now be examined at european level. in return, member states will be able to impose the closure of a border with another state which is a little too lax on its own borders. and each member state is in control if an extreme emergency situation forces it to temporarily re-establish border controls. the essential thing we must always keep in mind is to strike a balance between free movement and the safety of our fellow citizens.
in writing. i supported this text by my german colleague klaus-heiner lehne which amends the current accounting directives to replace them with a single directive. this directive will in particular reduce the administrative burden on small businesses and ensure that all small businesses benefit from this reduction in administrative burden. i believe that any simplification for european companies can only be beneficial for economic activity, and i supported this text, which has given rise to a very broad consensus in the european parliament.
in writing. the proposal provides for a reduction in the administrative burden on european smes when preparing their financial statements, in particular by harmonising thresholds. in the case of large companies, they should be required to declare the sums paid to governments and the projects to which they were allocated. in addition, the presentation of financial statements is harmonised, and will include the preparation of an income statement, a balance sheet and a limited appendix. as regards micro-entities, they will be exempted from certain obligations. in view of these facts, i voted for the legislative resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which introduces new reporting requirements for large companies active in the extractive industries or the exploitation of primary forests. the principle is that they will have to indicate in their accounts amounts exceeding eur 100 000 in order to pay exploitation rights to the governments of developing countries. in the employment committee i am fighting to develop the concept of csr on a voluntary basis so that it will not one day have to be made progressively compulsory. this approach, which aims to make companies managing strategic resources and national governments more accountable, is therefore perfectly in line with my concept of sustainable and supportive development.
in writing. more transparency means more trust and more growth. harmonizing accounting rules and reducing red tape is not only a guarantee of improved business operations, it is also a protection for our smes. oil, gas and mineral extraction companies and those exploiting primary forests will now be required to provide full details of their payments to the government authorities of the countries in which they operate. they owe this transparency to the countries in which they operate, but they also owe it to european consumers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to simplify accounting legislation by establishing a single text in this area. it introduces a specific scheme for small european enterprises in order to reduce the administrative burden on their operation as much as possible. it is very difficult for a small company to cope with the numerous administrative burdens imposed by the european union and the member states. any reduction in administrative burdens must therefore be supported so that european small businesses can develop more easily.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague klaus-heiner lehne in the plenary on 12 june. this report was concerned with the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and associated reports of certain types of undertakings. the aim was to introduce a special scheme for small enterprises to reduce the administrative burden on them in preparing their financial statements. it also aimed at harmonising thresholds, to ensure that the reduction in administrative burden benefits all small enterprises in the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's proposal on the financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings. the report aims to reduce the administrative burden for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), particularly in accounting. through increasingly harmonised and simplified compatibility rules, we are seeking to create an environment conducive to the prosperity of our 23 million smes in the european union, which are the lifeblood of our economy.
in writing. large companies exploiting strategic resources such as oil, gas, minerals and forests will be obliged, with the adoption of this new legislation, to disclose the amounts paid to the national authorities, in all their forms, taxes, royalties, dividends, bonuses.
in writing. even avoiding the worst, this report provides for further relaxations in the accounting rules of companies. this is unacceptable because it risks further strengthening the financial takeover of the real economy. but this draft directive introduces a positive novelty by obliging companies in the extractive and forestry sectors to declare their payments to the states. despite the accounting problems raised by the text, i shall abstain in order not to impede this progress.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which takes up michel barnier's proposals for more transparency in the exploitation of natural resources. in future, large oil, gas and mineral extraction companies and primary forestry companies will be forced to disclose the amounts they pay to the governments of the countries in which they operate, even if the "local tyrant" forbids it. this will enable the people of the areas concerned to know whether they are receiving a fair share of these extractions. the minimum threshold for declaring this money on each project is eur 100 000. the aim is to achieve a global standard to reduce government corruption and the unfair exploitation of resources by certain multinational corporations. ngos welcomed a historic vote that will finally establish accountability for the mismanagement of a developing country (corrupt leaders or companies that do not pay enough) and ensure more transparency in the distribution of wealth.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will strengthen the transparency and openness of financial markets and impose higher standards of governance. since the financial crisis of 2007 was largely due to dubious practices in financial markets, particularly in the united states, it seems to me that it is essential to tighten the rules on these markets to prevent similar crises from occurring in the future. that is why i supported the report by my colleague arlene mccarthy, which largely echoes the positions of my political group, the epp.
in writing. this report is part of the work on financial market reform undertaken in recent years. the main objectives of this reform are to make financial market transparency the rule and not the exception. in future, therefore, companies will have to comply with these new rules on enhanced transparency. in view of the 2009 crisis, the effects of which are still being felt in 2013, it was imperative to take a firm stand on financial markets, which is why i voted in favour of the legislative resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to introduce more transparency criteria for companies. a country-by-country assessment will be established, based on strict principles and criteria, with effective and dissuasive sanctions to improve the transparency of information provided by companies. in this report we also denounced the slow pace of the member states and the commission in adopting the reform of the financial services sector, which is creating uncertainty and hindering growth and job creation.
in writing. the europeans have clearly expressed to us their desire for more transparency in the practices of investors and companies in the markets. with this text, we are taking another step towards greater transparency at global level: this would be a huge step forward, because the more global these rules are, the more difficult it will be for companies to escape them. but above all, these global rules are a real asset for our companies, because they are clearer, simpler, and so they do not hinder the activities of those wishing to export. that is why i welcome the adoption of this text, which is a key step in our longer-term goal of genuine transparency on a global scale.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to increase transparency in the markets and in the companies that invest in them. the logic of this text is simple: the administrative burden on businesses, and in particular smes, must be reduced, while ensuring greater transparency in this market. investing firms are in fact demanding more information, in particular to be able to better understand the risks in the market, without, however, wanting to increase their obligations. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for legislation, both community and national, and it would be illogical for the european union to increase their obligations.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the excellent report by my british colleague, arlene mccarthy, and the adoption of new european anti-corruption rules in the key natural resources sector. the major oil and gas companies, but also mineral and forestry companies, will be required to publish all information on sums paid to national, regional or local governments. all payments above eur 100 000 will have to be made public in all countries where they operate and for each project. this will give citizens around the world powerful tools to hold their governments to account for the exploitation of their countries' natural resources. this is a great victory for the european parliament and for the social democrats, who have long campaigned for full transparency and greater corporate social responsibility.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague arlene mccarthy in the plenary on 12 june. this report was on the amendment of directive 2004/109/ec on the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market. the aim of this amendment is to enhance the level of investor protection and thus contribute to the overall objective of strengthening financial stability. the report was adopted by a very large majority, 655 votes in favour, 18 against and 11 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i supported the report on the transparency obligations of large oil, gas and mineral extraction companies regarding the amounts paid to governments for the exploitation of these primary resources. following tough negotiations with the council, parliament obtained strict rules on the obligation of transparency on production rights, certain taxes, royalties, dividends and bonuses paid by extractive companies. in particular, we have got the so-called "tyranny veto" clause removed, whereby companies could refrain from disclosing this information.
in writing. i oppose the 'cost-benefit' logic which prevailed in the preparation of the commission's proposal and which calls for the rules to be restricted as much as possible. the 2008 crisis showed how regulation and control were not costs but indispensable safeguards against the follies of finance. the report, while correcting the most perverse effects of this logic, confirms it. progress in the area of the inclusion of derivatives in the publication of financial statements is not sufficient. there is no indication that this directive will allow the investigations necessary for the production and disclosure of the financial statements in question to be carried out. it remains vague on the means and leaves the states to carry out the control, 'with the help of the competent authorities' (in particular esma), without proposing new methods of investigation. all of this is not up to par. i vote against it.
in writing. direct payments, established under the common agricultural policy (cap), aim to stabilise farmers' incomes by providing support independent of production and enabling farmers to cope with fluctuating prices for agricultural products. the purpose of the text is to adjust these direct payments in so far as the expenditure ceiling which was foreseen will be exceeded. as the commission proposal emphasizes, the aim of this text is to 'bring planned expenditure below the ceiling'. i am concerned about the preservation of this cap, which is one of the great achievements of the eu, and i voted in favour of the adjustment rates proposed by the rapporteur, as did a large majority of my colleagues.
in writing. initial estimates foresee a reduction in 2013 of eur 1,4714 billion due to budgetary discipline. the adjustment rate is based on the european council conclusions on the multiannual financial framework of february 2013. the adjustments should apply to direct aid of more than eur 5 000, which the rapporteur rejected. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the legislative resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which regulates the status of direct payments for 2014, as pending the vote on the multiannual financial framework, the situation of all beneficiaries of direct payments had to be regulated to guarantee them financial security for 2014. in this report we also denounced the slow pace of reform of the financial services sector by the member states and the commission, which is creating uncertainty and hindering growth and job creation.
in writing. without a rapid agreement on the multiannual financial framework, a whole series of issues will be inexcusably delayed. this is another example of such a case, and it is our farmers who will pay the price for this uncertainty.
in writing. the modernisation of the european common agricultural policy must pursue two objectives: firstly, to distribute funding in a more equitable way and secondly, to encourage farmers to make their activities more environmentally friendly. the adjustment of direct payments to farmers, which is one of the key aspects of the cap reform, must be the result of a joint budgetary effort by all member states. in the long term, direct payments should be directed to active farmers and the european funding rates between member states should be gradually harmonised. the outermost regions of the union, because of their particular geographical and insular character, should continue to benefit from an exemption in order not to be unfairly affected by the reduction in payments.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague luis manuel capoulas santos in the plenary on 12 june. that report concerned the fixing of the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 for the 2013 calendar year under the common agricultural policy (cap). the report was adopted by 506 votes in favour, 147 against and 28 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's proposal on the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in regulation (ec) no 73/2009 for calendar year 2013. in the context of financing the common agricultural policy (cap), parliament defended direct aid to farmers for 2013, which was threatened by budgetary discipline.
in writing. in its text, the commission anticipates decisions not yet taken by parliament. this is an intolerable encroachment on the budgetary debates under way. on the other hand, i share the idea of reorganizing direct aid from the cap to promote a better distribution of aid between large and small farmers. but it is the cap itself that needs to be changed to make it fairer, and also to provide better quality food while respecting the ecosystem. it is not enough to simply cut the highest aid by almost 5% - especially if the savings are not being made for small farmers. the capoulas santos report is a step forward from the commission's text; i vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which clarifies and improves the schengen borders code adopted in 2006. the code lays down common rules on the checks to be carried out by the member states at the external borders. it was therefore important to build on the experience gained over seven years by the member states to improve the schengen border code and promote the free movement of citizens.
in writing. four years after the implementation of the regulation establishing a community code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by persons, technical amendments were necessary, as the time allowed. these amendments are intended to respond to the problems encountered in the last four years and to reduce the possibility of divergent interpretations of the current text. in addition, a legal framework has been developed for bilateral agreements on the implementation of joint border checks in road traffic. the definition of 'residence permit' has also been clarified in legal and semantic terms. i voted in favour of the resolution because of the positive effect that these amendments could have.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment to the schengen code, which is part of the revision of the schengen governance package. the new schengen code will strengthen the free movement of citizens, reduce intergovernmental procedures for greater european participation and strengthen cooperation between the commission and the member states. free movement is one of the eu's most impressive achievements. 62% of the european population believe that this is the most positive result of 50 years of european integration.
in writing. i welcome these amendments to the community code on the crossing of frontiers, which will make it clearer, more uniform and, in short, more effective. this is therefore a step forward for europeans, who will benefit from greater legal certainty when travelling within this area. the more legible the rules, the better the guarantee of free movement.
in writing. the schengen agreement is extremely positive in that it allows mobility for all citizens across europe. i supported this text because i thought it was essential to adapt the schengen borders code to the present requirements: this proposal will make cooperation between member states more effective. the text proposes to simplify the common border control measures. it will thus provide better protection for our territory and our fellow citizens.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague georgios papanikolaou in the plenary on 12 june. this report dealt with the amendment of the schengen borders code and the convention implementing the schengen agreement. after four years of application, it had become necessary to make a number of technical changes. the commission proposal and the report have made sensible improvements. so i'm glad he was adopted.
in writing. the schengen borders code entered into force following the adoption of the regulation of 13 october 2006 by the council and the parliament. after a few years of practical application, it became necessary to evaluate its effectiveness and activity. i therefore voted in favour of this text because it provides answers to the practical problems of using the code by clarifying it and reducing the possibility of divergent interpretation. it provides for a number of technical amendments, including clarification of the legal framework applicable in the case of joint checks on the roads and a clear definition of the method of calculating stays of no more than three months in a six-month period.
in writing. on wednesday i voted in favour of amending the schengen code and the convention implementing the schengen agreement. on the one hand, we want to strengthen the rules that facilitate and promote free movement within the schengen area. on the other hand, we support the establishment of a rigorous framework for control and security at the external borders of the european territory. by strengthening the capacity of the european agencies for immigration control and control, schengen provides a mechanism for the objective evaluation of the quality of external border controls by the member states.
in writing. this text mainly deals with highly technical issues and aims to harmonise the application of the law in the schengen area. i could vote for it if it did not, by way of an amendment by parliament, include a reference in the schengen borders code to the return directive adopted in 2008 and which i voted against. i'm not going to.
in writing. since 1993, citizens of the schengen area have been able to move freely. it is an inalienable right that we cannot question. but this system was almost obsolete. the de facto solidarity between all the member states was not very real. we had to complete the system, so as not to leave it to the eurosceptics. with this vote, we have won a battle. on the one hand, we are preserving our model of free movement, but on the other hand we are strengthening the security of our borders. that is what the people asked for. effective border control can now be examined at european level. in return, member states will be able to impose the closure of a border with another state which is a little too lax on its own borders. and each member state is in control if an extreme emergency situation forces it to temporarily re-establish border controls. the essential thing we must always keep in mind is to strike a balance between free movement and the safety of our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted against this report on the temporary reintroduction of internal border control in exceptional circumstances. this report is a reaction to the events of april 2011, when france closed its borders to refugees from the north african revolutions coming from italy. now, in the event of an 'imminent threat', member states can 'invite' the commission to discuss the temporary reintroduction of internal border control. the free movement of persons within the territory of the european union is a fundamental right, recognised by the treaties. once again, the free movement of persons is less real than that of capital, services and goods. this text confirms the european union's security vision and the lack of democracy and transparency in the management of the schengen area. even if the ep and the commission have limited the possibilities of reintroducing these controls to the greatest possible extent, despite the pressure from some member states, i think this is a matter of principles from which we should not depart. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the reform of the schengen area preserves the freedom of movement of people within european borders. the commission will have to consult parliament before sending an inspection team to control the borders. this control procedure will neutralize any objectionable initiative by member states, such as nicolas sarkozy's unilateral decision to close the border between france and italy on 17 april 2011 following the arab spring. moreover, any reintroduction of border controls by states will have to be justified by exceptional circumstances. in no case may immigration be used as a reason for threatening public order and internal security to justify the reintroduction of controls. moreover, if member states reintroduce internal border controls, they cannot last for more than six months. the free movement of persons within the borders of the member states is a fundamental pillar of the european union, one of those 'concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity' that robert schuman wished for. the movement of people must therefore be facilitated, while safety and confidence must be improved through cooperation between member states.
in writing. my colleagues rafal trzaskowski and roberto gualtieri recommended that meps give their approval to the draft european council decision setting the composition of the european parliament. the adjustment was legally necessary to integrate the new croatian meps, while not exceeding the 751 limit. however, i consider that this proposal was not fully satisfactory because it deviates from the strict application of the principle of proportional degressivity. nevertheless, i voted in favour of the report for two reasons. the first was that a compromise solution had to be found quickly, and this proposal provides in particular that no state should lose seats. secondly, the recommendation provides that by the end of the next parliamentary term, in 2019, the european parliament will look more closely at the issue of the distribution of seats by member state. this proposal was the subject of a broad consensus within most political groups. the draft now needs to be approved by the heads of state and government.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new distribution of the european parliament, which will take effect after the next european elections in may 2014. the lisbon treaty has fixed the number of 751 parliamentary seats for 2014, and in order to allow the arrival of croatian members of parliament, we decided that 12 member states would lose one seat and none would gain. germany loses three, austria loses one and france is spared. i found this new distribution fair, it does not lead to heavy losses for the medium and small states and increases for the large ones. the distribution of seats will be revised before the 2019 elections in order to redistribute them according to demographic trends in the member states.
in writing. article 14 (2) of the treaty on european union provides that the number of seats in the european parliament allocated to each member state is to be fixed in accordance with the principle of degressive proportionality. the report on the composition of the european parliament for the 2014 elections adopted by the european parliament at first reading denied this principle of representation of the peoples, which is one of the foundations of the european parliament. while confirming the method of calculation used for the 2014 elections, the council also stressed that for the 2019-2024 and subsequent legislative elections, the distribution of seats should be carried out in an objective, fair, sustainable and transparent manner, reflecting the principle of degressive proportionality. this is the minimum.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this recommendation even though i regret that, for fear of not being able to meet the unanimity requirement for such a decision, the so-called 'pragmatic' approach has been imposed, not allowing strict compliance with the principle of degressive proportionality, and according to which france should have had additional members. however, it is clear that this distribution will only be valid for the 2014-2019 parliamentary term and that the european parliament will have to decide within a limited period (before the end of 2016) in order to avoid the scenario experienced during this parliamentary term, which did not allow us to calmly discuss a new distribution of seats more in line with the principle of degressive proportionality. i therefore support the inclusion of a cut-off clause so that the problem of the strict application of degressive proportionality is resolved by the 2019 european elections. the future distribution can only be done in an objective, fair, sustainable and transparent way, reflecting the principle of degressive proportionality, all of which are elements to prevent any unfair reform in the future. parliament must therefore allow itself sufficient time for discussion to establish this future distribution, in order to avoid any criticism of partiality.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleagues rafal trzaskowski and roberto gualtieri at the plenary session on 12 june. this report dealt with the redistribution of seats in the european parliament for the next parliamentary term. the rapporteurs have applied the principle of degressive proportionality as laid down in the lisbon treaty. the important thing is that france will not lose any elected representatives in this reconstitution. the draft decision now has to be adopted by the heads of state or government at the next european council on 27 and 28 june. the report was adopted by a very large majority, with 574 votes in favour, 71 against and 39 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the composition of the parliament in 2014. the treaty of lisbon sets the number of meps in the european parliament at 751. the european council has already decided that the european union should be able to take part in the next european elections, and that the european parliament should be able to vote on the accession of croatia. 12 eu countries will therefore lose one seat in the next european elections, and no member state will gain one. this new distribution respects the principle of lamassoure-severin degressive proportionality and will only be valid for the next parliamentary term. the population/seat ratio of each member country will need to be reviewed before the end of 2016. france, for its part, retains all 74 seats.
in writing. the new composition of the parliament reduces the gap between france and germany. from 27 mps elected in 2009, the gap has been reduced to 22. this is a significant improvement, but it is still proportionally higher than the population gap between our two countries in favour of germany. to be strictly identical to the demographic gap, and considering that germany has 96 meps, france should have 77 meps instead of 74. the lisbon treaty has therefore not corrected the imbalance. in any event, only a perfect equality between france and germany is tolerable in accordance with the well-understood interests of europe and the lessons of history.
in writing. the council needs to confirm the decision on the fixing of the seats of the european parliament for the 2014-2019 term of office as soon as possible. for this reason i supported the adoption of this recommendation, even though it is unfavourable to french parliamentarians. the method used should have respected the principle of degressive proportionality as provided for in the treaty of lisbon, according to which france should have additional seats. however, we have obtained that this allocation can only be valid for the 2014-2019 parliamentary term, and that the european parliament should take a decision within a limited period - 2016 - for the next parliamentary term in order to discuss a new allocation more calmly.
in writing. unlike some members of my political group, i voted in favour of this motion, which is in response to a commission communication entitled 'investing in social policy for growth and cohesion, including through the european social fund, over the period 2014-2020'. as the text states, i believe it is necessary to stress 'the need to improve the coordination of economic and social policies at union level, so as to avoid disparities, develop synergies between them and enable them to reinforce each other's objectives'.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which follows a question from the employment committee of which i am a member. to get out of the economic crisis we are in, we need to invest socially. it is therefore extremely important that 25% of the cohesion policy funds can be devoted to the european social fund. that is also why i support this proposal for a guarantee of eur 6 billion for the youth employment initiative, but it must not be the only investment in social matters. we need to invest in getting everyone back to work, in fighting poverty in and out of work and above all we need to invest more and better in education and continuing training. we can no longer leave millions of young people on the sidelines. they are the future of our society, let us not sacrifice them, let us invest today in the social areas that will ensure our cohesion and our sustainable growth.
in writing. to make our actions more effective, and above all more visible to europeans, we need to develop targeted social investments. these social investments include the youth employment initiative, which should soon be able to help millions of young people throughout europe. a scoreboard of indicators could be a good tool to help us measure and evaluate our actions: we need to analyse our spending to judge whether or not it is effective, and to be able to adapt it to the real needs of europeans.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which finally gives priority to social investment in the european union and recognises its decisive role in social spending to overcome the crisis. the european social model has made it possible to significantly offset the losses linked to the crisis and the rise in unemployment, exclusion and poverty on the continent. nevertheless, it is unacceptable that more than 80 million europeans are living below the poverty line today. the european union must take a new step and lay the foundations for a more social and more united europe. this is the battle being waged by the european socialists and democrats and the european citizens expect concrete measures such as the youth guarantee or the safeguarding of the fead. similarly, there is a need for better integration of employment policies with the economic policies of the european semester and for a real scoreboard of social indicators.
in writing. i supported motion for a resolution b7-0255/2013 in the plenary on 12 june. this proposal suggested investing in the social field in order to develop growth and social cohesion. i am glad that this motion for a resolution has been adopted by parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on investment in the social field, in favour of growth and cohesion. as we have said, the fight against exclusion, poverty, unemployment, the promotion of youth employment and social entrepreneurship are major challenges in europe. the mobilisation of european funds in these areas must become an investment for sustainable eu growth.
in writing. there is a need to improve the coordination of social and economic policies at union level, in order to avoid disparities and develop synergies. social entrepreneurship and access to microfinance, including for vulnerable groups, are important elements in support of growth and cohesion.
in writing. i voted for this report on the basis of the opinion of my colleague, mr oldřich vlasák, on regional policy in the wider context of state aid schemes. i share the analysis that 'the application of cohesion policy and the rules on state aid schemes to strengthen local and regional investment and public-private partnerships is of fundamental importance for promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion, regional and local development, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and job creation'.
in writing. while the community framework on regional state aid will expire on 31 december 2012, the commission has exclusive competence on the guidelines for the next framework (proposals made in january 2013) i voted in favour of this report, which is concerned about some of these proposals, in particular the reduction of aid and the discrepancy between the zoning of regional aid and that of cohesion policy. regional state aid is designed to encourage public investment in the most disadvantaged regions of europe, so it is essential to clearly define and recognise the special needs of certain types of regions, such as outermost and cross-border regions, so that they can benefit from this aid and boost their growth and employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the vlasak report on 'regional policy in the wider context of state aid schemes'. like the rapporteur, i am concerned about some of the commission's proposals for the next community framework for regional state aid (the eafrd), which will come into force in 2014. the reduction in the volume of aid advocated by the commission, the prohibition of aid to large firms in areas c without distinction, do not seem to me to be conducive to a less strict approach to competition policy, which is necessary in times of crisis. moreover, the discrepancy between the zoning of the eafrd and that of cohesion policy prevents greater synergies between the latter and competition policy, whereas they should be encouraged.
in writing. the current reform of regional state aid must be realistic and effective, and to do so it must be ensured that it emphasises greater simplicity and readability. the regions are a key category of beneficiaries in this area and we must be careful not to subject them to arbitrary or inadequate categories which would only make it more difficult for them to carry out their tasks.
in writing. as part of the process of modernising state aid rules, the european commission published draft guidelines on regional state aid. the decision to modernise with a view to simplifying and making state aid more effective was welcomed by the european parliament, which wished to express its views on the subject, although it was not involved in the negotiations. however, regional state aid is a tool to support growth if it is applied with discernment and articulated in coherence with cohesion policy. i believe that the competitiveness of our economy depends mainly on smes but also on large companies which have a knock-on effect. we must not, in any case, restrict investment in research and innovation by imposing restrictive measures and additional tax burdens. the territorial coverage and intensity of these forms of aid should therefore not lead to a flight of firms to regions with more favourable incentive practices, in particular to countries of the european economic area (eea). the specific character of the outermost regions and regions with natural handicaps must also be taken into account.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague oldřich vlasák. this report dealt with regional policy in the wider context of state aid schemes. the report was adopted by 551 votes in favour, 42 against and 67 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. - the european parliament's approach to cohesion policy and, in the wider context, to state aid to the eu's least developed regions has been clearly outlined and defined. the european parliament, although only playing an advisory role on the modernisation of state aid, has put forward and defended its own motion for a resolution. improving and strengthening the dialogue processes between the european institutions and the member states in order to make the uncommitment of funds an increasingly rare occurrence and, at the same time, to ensure that the allocation of funds is increasingly appropriate and targeted to the needs of growth and development of the eu territories, are the main objectives of our action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the review of regional policy in the context of state aid schemes. the objective of european cohesion policy is to provide financial support for development projects in europe's regions. state aid is a second mechanism of support for these regions. in this context of crisis and in order to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, parliament wanted to simplify the rules on the management and use of this aid. in addition, better coordination of these instruments has been introduced to make them more useful for the competitiveness of the european union.
in writing. the community framework for regional state aid expires on 31 december 2013. the european commission is proposing new guidelines for public investment in europe's most disadvantaged regions. these are of concern in view of the reduction in the volume of aid proposed by the commission or the discrepancy with the zoning of cohesion policy.
in writing. this agreement will make the management of regional funds unnecessarily complex. it leads to a further restriction of state aid and thus of the power of nations in planning the territory. i vote against it.
in writing. this aid was set up to support the economic development of the most disadvantaged regions of europe. and with the crisis, they have proved even more useful, as they have helped to stimulate investment, job creation and the creation of new establishments. it would be absurd for europe, out of sheer ideological excess, to decide to go back on this arrangement. this aid has benefited many of our small, medium and large european companies, which, because of their location, are the most affected by the crisis. some third countries are not afraid to support their economies outrageously, while respecting the principles of the wto. it is therefore legitimate to extend this aid until 2020 without reducing territorial coverage! europe must strengthen its global competitiveness. this has to go through all the territories.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by antolin sanchez presedo, which gives an overview of eu competition policy. the report recalls that competition policy is a fundamental element of the eu and that it is therefore necessary to combat cartels and abuse of dominant positions and state aid controls. i think, however, that the european parliament should have a greater role in defining this competition policy.
in writing. as every year, the commission publishes its report on the competition policy of the european union, which provides an overview of the commission's actions in this field. it can thus be seen that competition policy will allow new players to enter the single market, and will combat cartels and abuse of dominant positions. the european parliament plays a fundamental role in defining eu competition policy. this is why the latter stresses the importance of monitoring financial actors such as credit rating agencies, but also the monitoring of health actors due to the impact of their activities on consumers. in view of the points made by the commission and the analysis and recommendations of this report, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i have approved the commission's use of competition policy to contribute to the objectives of growth, employment and competitiveness of the european economy. in this report we stressed the priority to be given to consumer protection, closer monitoring of certain sectors (pharmaceuticals, health, insurance) and the need to improve the coherence of competition policy in certain sectors, in particular transport, electronic payments, energy, while taking into account the impact of this policy on employment and social affairs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which makes recommendations on the development of european competition policy, on the basis of the actions undertaken by the european commission in this field, to combat the crisis. i particularly agree with the rapporteur's wish to give parliament a more active role in defining competition policy, including through legislative powers, as a matter of democratic imperative.
in writing. competition policy is a key tool to help us end the crisis and restore growth, jobs and competitiveness. i support the ambition of a competition policy which gives itself the means to bring about economic recovery, by ensuring close supervision of certain sensitive sectors, in order to guarantee the best possible protection of consumers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this annual report on competition policy as it highlights the central role that competition has played in the fight against the economic crisis. competition policy has proved its worth by avoiding, in particular within the union, any form of protectionism and market fragmentation which would have had serious consequences for the economies of the member states. in times of economic crisis, competition allows new players to enter the market and thus create jobs, but also offers european citizens affordable and high-quality consumer goods. the text also recommends that competition, a fundamental principle of the european union, should be further promoted.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague antolín sánchez presedo at the plenary session on 12 june. this own-initiative report dealt with the annual report on the european union's competition policy. it stressed in particular that competition policy was the key to the european social market economy. it also called on the commission to strengthen and strictly enforce the rules on the fight against cartels and abuse of dominant positions and the measures to control state aid and mergers. the ultimate objective is to ensure economic efficiency. i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report by parliament.
in writing. on wednesday i voted in favour of the annual report on competition policy. the guarantee of a free and competitive market is one of the foundations of the internal market. it allows businesses to develop freely on equal terms and guarantees the lowest prices for consumers. parliament insists on being involved in the establishment of competition policy, which must be at the heart of the reconstruction of the european economy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive.
in writing. unlike the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleagues in the gue/ngl, the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the epp, s&d, alde and greens/efa does not call into question the austerity policy pursued by the troika, which has recently been called into question by the imf itself. the joint resolution calls on the commission to implement swiftly anti-democratic measures which will limit the prerogatives of national parliaments in budgetary matters (european semester) and defend the interests of the banks against those of the people (esm). i can only strongly oppose this resolution. it would be incredible if the members of parliament would approve the financial coup d'état at work in europe. i vote against it.
in writing. european citizens too often feel excluded from european decision-making systems. everything must be done to make decision-making procedures less opaque in order to increase the democratic legitimacy of our community institutions. economic and monetary union (emu) is no exception to this rule. the member states do not seem to be in a hurry to increase the democratic legitimacy of emu. the european parliament therefore 'is deeply alarmed that the question of the democratic accountability of emu (the fourth essential element) has not yet been properly addressed in the council's deliberations; it considers this to be absolutely deplorable'. i share these conclusions and that is why i supported this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which calls for a more important place for parliament to ensure democratic control over emu. the improvement of democratic legitimacy and control requires a strengthening of the role of parliament, which is a prerequisite for any progress towards a banking, budgetary and economic union. i am satisfied with the direction the negotiations for the creation of a future emu are taking, since we have succeeded in including a social pillar in a strategy which was designed exclusively for economic and financial reasons.
in writing. the europeans expect us to take concrete action to respond to the crisis. however, even though important decisions were taken last june, the commission has not yet submitted all the relevant proposals in one year. i regret this and call on the commission to show more ambition in order to enable the creation of a genuine banking union.
in writing. europe is still in the throes of the economic crisis, and its effects continue to hit european citizens very hard. in view of the urgency of the situation, it is regrettable that the european council is still unable to find an ambitious and rapid solution to the crisis. the postponement of much-awaited decisions on the future of economic and monetary union for two times is unjustifiable. it is equally regrettable that the democratic responsibility of emu has still not been addressed. we cannot have a deeper, more integrated, stronger, more united governance of the euro area without more democracy, and it is therefore essential that the monetary union project be fully anchored in the european legal framework and respond to the community method. the council cannot continue to arrogate to itself the power of initiative. in future, the council will be accountable to the european parliament for emu and the stability mechanism. it is high time that the management of the economic crisis in europe responds to the democratic principles on which the union is based. the european heads of state or government and the commissioners must take their responsibilities seriously. only then will the union regain the confidence of its citizens.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on democratic decision-making in the future union. the resolution was adopted by 528 votes to 114, with 30 abstentions. i have high hopes for the guidelines that will be adopted by the european council in this area.
in writing. in the run-up to the next european council meeting on 27 and 28 june, meps and i wanted to ask the heads of state and government about the future economic and monetary union (emu). the banking crises in the euro area over the past five years have demonstrated the urgency of reforming emu and coordinating banking supervision at european level. parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's powers to adopt legislative acts are exercised in a democratic manner.
in writing. unlike the motion for a resolution by the gue/ngl group, this joint motion for a resolution does not in any way call into question the austerity policy pursued by the troika, although it has recently been called into question by the imf itself. the joint resolution calls on the commission to implement swiftly anti-democratic measures which will limit the prerogatives of national parliaments in budgetary matters (european semester) and defend the interests of the banks against those of the people (esm). i can only strongly oppose this resolution.
in writing. unemployment is one of my biggest concerns. and young people are the most affected: 22.8 percent, and in some countries this figure rises to 50 percent. the member states must act quickly to avoid an even more critical situation, in which this youth, a treasure for all of us, could be lost. the answer is simple: more and more europe. we have already set up the erasmus (students) and leonardo da vinci (workers) programmes, but we need to go further. so i am not counting on the fine promises of mr hollande, who has already disappointed us enough with his growth plan, which we have never seen the colour of the promised 120 billion. let's be practical about this. the fight against this scourge must be fought through policies which favour private investment. we must not discourage our companies from hiring. we must not forget that it is the return of growth that will create jobs, not the other way around, as is increasingly being argued in the debate.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution, which was adopted by a very large majority. young people are among the main victims of the economic crisis we are experiencing. almost 27% of young people in france are currently unemployed, with these figures reaching dramatic levels in other member states (62% in greece, 56% in spain, 40% in italy). it was therefore necessary to send a strong signal to these young citizens that we refuse to be a "lost" generation. that is why, as a member of the european parliament, i have been keen to put pressure on the european council to find concrete solutions to combat this phenomenon. i suggest, in particular, the creation of a european employment agency to create a genuine european labour market by promoting the mobility of workers. it would work in conjunction with the national agencies by keeping statistics by member state which would allow the supply of and demand for employment to be cross checked. the union could also launch a 'new european deal' comprising 15 major european investment projects to be implemented by 2025-2030 to boost the economy, promote competitiveness and attractiveness of the territories by strengthening european infrastructures.
in writing. i voted for the joint resolution of the epp, s&d and the greens and i regret that the alde did not co-sign this resolution. as youth unemployment in europe is taking a very worrying turn (62.5% in greece and 56.4% in spain), it is essential to make a united front in order to bring this issue to the european level. first, the member states must implement the youth guarantee and confirm the budget of eur 6 billion allocated to the fight against youth unemployment. there are now good practices which in some member states limit unemployment to rates below 8%. the commission's role should be to encourage these good practices: traineeships, alternance, training, the fight against school drop-outs, etc. and to make them as widespread as possible throughout the union. the union is not just a common market: it must also be a place for the exchange of effective policies. the franco-german plan to combat youth unemployment must be implemented. as i have said on several occasions, measures for young people must not be a 'com effect'. the urgency calls for swift and determined action.
in writing. investing in youth employment is investing in the growth and employment of tomorrow. youth employment must be a priority, and this requires a realistic view of the state of the labour market. these challenges can only be met by looking at youth employment as a whole, which is primarily concerned with their education and training. i am committed to developing proven methods, including learning. the youth guarantee is a good thing, because it will enable them to be offered a job, a training or an apprenticeship when they need it most. but the six billion promised by the heads of state and government is vastly underestimated: we all know that much more investment will be required if we are to guarantee jobs for our young people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which recalls the european parliament's determination and strong commitment to invest heavily in youth employment. it is imperative to support europe's young people, who are today the first victims of the recession and unemployment. almost one in four young people in europe is looking for a job. this huge waste, which costs the european economy nearly €150 billion a year, must be stopped. the urgency of the social situation must lead the european institutions and all political currents to work hand in hand to offer new prospects to young europeans. the agreement reached by the european social democrats on the youth guarantee must not be left untouched and must be properly endowed to meet this immense social challenge. the 6 billion allocated to this flagship initiative must be rapidly mobilised by the member states and supplemented by national actions.
in writing. the eurostat statistics for april 2013 on youth unemployment are alarming: 62.5% in greece, 56.4% in spain, 42.5% in portugal, 40.5% in italy and 26.5% in france. it is more urgent than ever that the member states take up this matter and propose concrete and immediate solutions to this scourge. the rapid inflation of the number of young people out of work is sinking our economy and putting more and more young people in an unacceptably precarious situation. the commission has already proposed a number of measures, but the member states will have to take their responsibility at the european council on 27 and 28 june by encouraging the employment of young people through measures which help to reconcile enterprises with young people through education and training, but also through a taxation of enterprises more adapted to current realities.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the european plan to combat youth unemployment. the resolution was adopted by 539 votes in favour, 103 against and 16 abstentions. i have high hopes for the guidelines that will be adopted by the european council in this area.
in writing. in view of the forthcoming european summit of heads of state or government on 27 and 28 june, i supported parliament's resolution on the european plan to combat youth unemployment. since the start of the crisis, the unemployment rate for young people has been growing exponentially in the eu (23.5%), with very alarming rates in some member states such as greece (62.5%), spain (56.4%) and portugal (42%). today's young workers are tomorrow's wealth creators. it is therefore essential that the european council should decide on concrete measures and a comprehensive strategy for youth employment. in particular, we call on the member states to establish an effective strategy for youth in their national employment plans. priority should also be given to vocational training for unemployed young people. the house also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. it is important to strengthen voluntary mobility among young people by removing existing barriers to cross-border apprenticeship, training and traineeship contracts. with the establishment of a youth guarantee, all unemployed young eu citizens should be offered a job, continuing training or a good quality apprenticeship within 4 months of losing their job or leaving school.
in writing. this resolution calls for an increase in the financial resources devoted to the fight against youth employment in the next european budget. that's good. that's good. but why not demand a specific amount? perhaps because the epp and the pse have approved the budget in their countries which they hypocritically contest at european level. the resolution also supports the merkel-hollande initiatives and the old liberal approaches to combating unemployment. it does not propose any new solution. and she says nothing about the austerity policy, which is the main cause of the explosion in youth unemployment. i vote against it.
in writing. access to documents and transparency of information in the eu should be a priority, and in voting in favour of this proposal we deplored the resulting deadlock. the institutions of the union must try to work together to find a solution and a compromise that is acceptable to all.
in writing. i gave my full support to this resolution because the impasse in which the revision of the regulation on access to documents of the european institutions has been since 2008 is no longer tolerable. the commission and the council must also commit themselves to greater transparency in the decision-making process. on the eve of an important election for the european union, it is their responsibility to show european citizens who have lost their confidence that europe cannot be reduced to a large bureaucracy that takes decisions away from their concerns and in the greatest opacity. the absence of an ambitious agreement on this text would be a real failure and would greatly undermine the legitimacy of the union's decision-making process. it is regrettable that the conservatives have refused to join in this effort, thus endorsing the obstacles to achieving real transparency at the expense of our fellow citizens.
in writing. the joint resolution dealt with the revision of regulation no 1049/2001 on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents, which is currently in a deadlock. although i am in favour of the principle, i did not support the joint proposal. i preferred the wording of the resolution tabled by the epp.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution stating that the negotiations on the revision of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 had been closed. this text, which aims to ensure greater transparency of the union's decision-making process for european citizens, has been blocked in the council since 2011, following negotiations and trilogues. transparency has been a new priority for the union since the treaty of lisbon. greater access to union information is a key condition for ensuring european citizens' trust in their institutions and increasing their involvement. we therefore call on the commission and the council to make every effort to find appropriate measures to bring about a political agreement on this text.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am glad that we have a plenary debate today, because it shows that we all understood that something was happening in turkey. the question is what exactly is going on. i have the impression that something is happening that is both exhilarating and, at the same time, disturbing. this is encouraging, because we feel that we are seeing the emergence of a new actor - civil society and citizens - that holds great promise for the deepening of democracy. at the same time, we are worried because we can see that the response chosen by the authorities at the moment is authoritarianism, repression and security logic, which leads us rather to a brutal democracy, "russian-style", if you will. the question we must therefore ask ourselves as europeans, in this parliament, in the council and in the commission, is what can we do to ensure that this situation, which remains open, sensitive, dynamic and full of energy, which is expressed in taksim square, develops into a real deepening of democracy. i think that is the only question we as europeans can ask ourselves. i am surprised and i think that act i consists of considering that the words spoken in taksim square and the demands made by the taksim platform are simple and clear, and i do not see why they should not be widely supported within our ranks: stop police repression i think we might be in agreement on this; the termination of a project for which there has been no consultation; the willingness to be consulted, to participate in the planned development of the centre of istanbul i believe that we could meet again around this request; the commission has not yet received the request for an inquiry into the serious facts that have occurred. why are they so serious? because there were dead, because there are injured, because there are people in prison, because there are people with no record, because there are journalists, lawyers and protesters, still today, in prison there too, i believe that the movement that expresses itself in taksim square requires merit, carries what we hope for the future of turkey, namely that it becomes a society of citizen actors who freely express their opinions. that is what is at stake today. i am glad that the gezi park is bringing together the various elements of turkish civil society. they are meeting around this cause and they are also meeting because they have to confront a regime which, for the moment, has not found - not yet, because i hope that we will be able to weigh on these authorities and this government - the path of consultation, debate, dialogue and appeasement, which is not the situation yet as we speak. it is absolutely necessary to emphasize what happened in the media. it is a very disturbing situation and it finally confirms all the concerns we have expressed on several occasions in this european parliament and in our reports. it is incredible to think that almost all the major newspapers, the mainstream media, for three or four days did not report on what was happening in taksim square. this is absolutely incredible! i believe that to be useful, we europeans must make this proposal for political dialogue by saying: 'to support, let us open the chapters'. let us open the chapter against centralisation, which is that of regional development. let's open chapter 2324 to support and start a dialogue on the fundamental freedoms that the people of taksim square are demanding today.
mr president, madam high representative, the european external action service and the post you hold today are positive creations of the lisbon treaty, despite the imperfections, despite the necessary adjustments, despite our frequent criticisms. let us not forget that when we ask our citizens in which areas they would like to see the european union play a more active collective role, diplomacy and the security and defence sector are among the priorities they give us. it is therefore positive to see this development and it is not in three years that we can create a common diplomatic corps, a common diplomatic culture, but progress is there and it is undeniable. however, while i agree with all the recommendations made by our excellent rapporteurs, gualtieri and brok, i would like to stress in particular the civil and military missions of the european union. i have met with all the heads of mission in my capacity, i have visited all the missions. the same thing happens, unfortunately, all too often: planning is often too heavy and sometimes inadequate, coordination is inadequate, flexibility is almost non-existent. we have to improve on this. it's about our credibility in the outdoor theater and our visibility. i would like to emphasize in particular, madam high representative, your role as vice-president of the commission. the commission's circuits, the commission's machinery and the commission's funding must be used much more effectively in the service of our external missions.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the european union's annual report on human rights and democracy, as we can discuss it today, shows the progress made. for the first time, we do not have a catalogue, we finally have a report that looks like something, in two parts: one thematic, as we had wanted, and one by country. we have finally a document which allows us to monitor the european union's activities in a real way. the european parliament must not only be mentioned, it must be heard. and here we still have a long way to go before the european parliament's positions are actually taken into account, even if some progress has been made. i will take only one example, the clause on democracy and human rights. many of us here are very keen on the implementation of this clause and ask that it be made a condition for the implementation of any agreement between the european union and a third country. what is the situation on page 133 of the report? this clause was not used as a basis for any restrictive measures against a third country in 2012 and we are promised that in the future the requests of the european parliament and civil society in favour of - quote - a more consistent and more constant application of this clause will be taken into account. what a confession, mrs ashton! as long as the european union does not put its words into action, as long as its economic or diplomatic interests take precedence over its values, the credibility of the european union in this area will be undermined. i would venture to say that the european union must stop being a cultural relativist and put its own interests first. and i am not even talking about the contradictions between the member states. sometimes we wonder whether they really feel that they belong to the union. i should also like to say a word about the universal and, above all, indivisible vision of human rights, which we should have in view of the small share given to economic and social rights. an example also cited in the report is the eu-colombia agreement, a country which holds the sad record for the number of trade unionists murdered and ranks second to last in terms of impunity. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr lambridinis, because i believe that the cooperation we have started is an example in this area, and i thank him very much for that.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr mitchell, i will avoid any comment on abortion rights and women's rights. i just want to ask you a question. you have spoken at length on religious freedom. we are considering a report today. i would like to know if you have read it, because what you have said is in total contradiction with the work we have done with mrs andrikienė. i regret some of the amendments adopted in the committee on foreign affairs, but this report is remarkable in that it respects freedom of religion and conscience and allows everyone to be free to express his opinions. that is what must prevail in this parliament.
madam president, i welcome the report by mrs schaake, which rightly calls for the european union to adopt as soon as possible a strategy on freedom of the press and media in the context of foreign policy. this is to ensure that our policies are consistent and effective, particularly when a partner country starts to enact laws restricting freedom of expression. examples are many of countries adopting freedom-threatening laws. we could talk about russia, moldova, ukraine, burundi, china, but i will stick to the situation in kazakhstan. since the massacre of civilians in zhanaozen in 2011, the country has experienced a constant crackdown by civil society, opposition groups and, above all, the press and media. just two months ago, about 30 newspapers, websites and tv channels were banned. europe must therefore adopt adequate action plans to effectively support journalists and civil society in this country.
madam president, nothing illustrates the actual hypocrisy of european human rights and freedoms better than the julian assange case. this australian activist has informed the world of the secret designs of american diplomacy, a case known as wikileaks. of course, the u.s. is seeking revenge by jailing him for life. but why help them? but london, still subservient to washington, wants to extradite him to sweden, where two young women, who freely entered his bed naked, later filed a rape complaint in order to satisfy their own resentment that they were not the only ones to benefit from his favors. one complains about a missing or broken condom, the other says she consented to the first sex of the night, but not the second. this is ridiculous! in fact, england wants to extradite him to sweden so that sweden can extradite him to the united states. this is the shameful procedure of this europe which says that it is ready, as it did yesterday, to take in all the refugees in the world. julian assange has been living in the ecuadorian embassy for a year. london must let him go free. enough of the hypocrisy! let julian assange go. he is a terrorist.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the guidelines for the promotion and protection of freedom of religion and belief in the world touch on a major source of human rights violations on this planet. because human rights are indivisible, freedom of religion and conscience is an integral part, along with other fundamental rights, of our common frame of reference. the draft guidelines say so, and i want to welcome it. the european union, as an institutional whole, is neutral from a religious point of view. at the same time, europe as a territory is diverse and multi-confessional. we must defend together the two sides of the same coin. so the recommendations say, and i welcome it, that everyone is free to believe, but everyone is also free not to believe. these two freedoms go hand in hand. i would like to emphasize two points. first, the text put to the vote contains a dubious reference to conscientious objection extending to morally sensitive issues. it is leaving the door open to all abuse and we must oppose it. secondly, the text would suggest that the right of parents to provide moral and religious education for their children can be exercised without any limit. it must be strictly observed, yes! but not out of bounds.
in writing. relations between the european union and the united states go far beyond mere trade relations, as one might expect from recent news about the negotiations for a future free trade agreement. and in many areas, they can still be strengthened. this is particularly the case in the areas of defence, security, peace-building and human rights. two examples seem to me relevant: first, the middle east peace process. the european union and the united states are both very much involved in this process. the appointment of john kerry as secretary of state will, i believe, give new impetus to the work we are jointly undertaking towards a two-state solution. secondly, in the context of the syrian crisis, the transatlantic alliance is becoming indispensable and could benefit from further strengthening. i think it is a good barrier to the passivity and the waiting attitude of some members of the security council.
author. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the reconstruction and democratisation of mali are vast issues, but i shall concentrate on three points: the elections, the support needed for victims of sexual violence and our role in the reconciliation process. let us not rush the electoral process so that we can take credit for solving the problem of mali. it would be wrong, it would be dangerous. while mali needs a legitimate authority to rebuild, the situation is still too fragile and the reconciliation body too inoperative to allow a peaceful election campaign. the war has brought its horrors. many women have been raped or forced into marriage. abandoned, without resources or families, these women need to be heard and helped. the european union must support them, particularly through the ngos, which are sorely lacking in resources. we are responsible, because to the risk of violence there is added the question of the refugees' vote and the date of the elections, which was particularly badly chosen at the beginning of ramadan and in the middle of the rainy season. we must not encourage low participation and the risk of contesting the results by multiplying the obstacles. it is the provision of basic public services and the reconstruction of infrastructure that will make the democratization process credible in the eyes of a population that has suffered for many years. the french intervention obliges us europeans to engage in dialogue and to listen to all the components of malian society, even the most critical. the future of mali belongs to the malians. we don't have to choose who we talk to. our intervention, which many malians regard as a liberation, would then, rightly, risk being experienced as a new colonization. my country must protect itself from this and the european union must guarantee it.
author. - madam president, i would also like to say that i am speaking on behalf of elmar brok, who co-authored this resolution but who cannot be here tonight and with whom we share a number of views. the first is that this debate, which is very welcome at an important time for mali, is a debate which, unfortunately, would have been very useful to have had much earlier. and when i say much earlier, it is actually years earlier, since we never forget to recall that the european union, the 27 member states and all the european institutions had, in 2011, more than two years ago, adopted a strategy for security and development in the sahel. and if that strategy had been implemented, we would probably not be here today, defending a resolution that advocates precisely these security, political and development measures, in a context that has become much more difficult than it was two years ago. we must now make up for lost time, and we must do so with a sense of urgency which unfortunately is never very conducive to great achievements. mrs joly has just reminded us that we have many questions about the electoral process. yes, of course, we need an election. yes, of course, there is nothing better than elections to give legitimacy to local actors, with whom we must work and who are, in the end, the people who will be in charge of the destiny of their country. but beware that an electoral process that is blurred for technical reasons, also for political reasons, and that engages in bad debates, does not further alter the legitimacy of the actors. i do not know whether we should really be happy about the haste with which we are pushing for these elections. the conditions are also difficult in terms of security. i would like to commend the work done by the french army, with african allies. i think we should also welcome the work of the european mission eutm. it is a remarkable training effort, but it must be integrated into the duration, because we know very well that it is more than training that the malian army needs, it is a real reconstruction, and a reconstruction that also incorporates strict democratic control. we must have an army that is loyal to its authorities, an army that plays the game of the institutions. all this is far from guaranteed today, even if the european union plays its part. finally, as regards the overall role of the european union, we must also draw the lessons here and in brussels from the failure to function in the pre-conflict phase. the commission and all the eeas structures must really work together to make security and development the two poles of an effective strategy towards mali.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the current situation in mali is exceptionally important. the way in which the question of northern mali is handled in the coming months will determine the stability of this region of the world for the next 15 years. what are the risks? the most pressing is that of a malian army animated by a clear spirit of revenge. it is still cluttered with a very large number of military officers with a coup-minded attitude, whose record in terms of human rights, including since the beginning of the french intervention, is particularly worrying. at a conference to be held in brussels next monday, we will take stock of this with a very large number of ngos, all of whom have sounded the alarm. because our responsibility in mali is now the responsibility of the european union. the military initiative successfully launched by the french army against terrorists and drug traffickers cannot be left without political follow-up. we must now do everything possible to avert the risk of malian military intervention in kidal and to achieve political balance in the territory of azawat. the people of northern mali must be able to enjoy genuine autonomy within a federal malian state. this is the only way to achieve balance and stability in the region.
madam president, a week ago i went to mali and mauritania. the humanitarian situation in northern mali is alarming. it is overshadowed by the presidential elections scheduled for 28 july, which are the priority for the government and the international community in terms of funding at the moment. food insecurity is worsening in the north of the country, but also in the rest of mali. the welding period, which has just begun, is looking very bad. the situation ahead is alarming and raises fears of high rates of acute malnutrition and the spread of epidemics, including cholera. the north of mali remains a conflict zone where terrorists, jihadists, drug traffickers and banditry are still present. the provision of basic social services continues to be mainly provided by humanitarian actors, in the absence of the return of state social services. i also visited the largest malian refugee camp, mbera, in mauritania, where i expressed my concern about the precarious situation in the camp and the tensions there. a week ago, the camp was hit by a major storm and incidents due to food distribution problems. this situation will continue because the refugees have no desire to return to mali until security is assured. as for the elections, since they bring the transitional phase to an end, they are an essential step towards the return to democracy. the smooth conduct of the elections in the north of the country is paramount from the point of view of the credibility of the elections. i saw there that the authorities were genuinely willing to hold credible elections. it's playable, but the challenges remain immense, including security threats, the production and distribution of the maps, the voting of displaced people and refugees, the non-registration of new adults, who will not be able to participate in this vote, and the problems of deployment of the administration in the north of kidal, in particular.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with mali's territorial integrity restored, it is time for reconstruction and peace. i am therefore very pleased that the european union is taking its responsibilities and is working alongside france at this crucial stage. the success of the international donor conference confirmed the european union's support for the malian government's sustainable recovery plan. it has helped to raise financial commitments from the international community to the tune of eur 3.25 billion, which is far beyond our expectations. today, the authorities face several major challenges. first, the crisis has exposed the fragility of institutions and the problems of governance that the country suffers from. this has caused a loss of credibility of the state in the eyes of the citizens, especially in the north. the question of the legitimacy of power is therefore essential and the holding of elections is a necessary precondition. the initiative of the transitional authorities to invite an eu election observation mission for the elections is a very positive sign. we must therefore respond to it to the extent necessary. i would also like to stress the need to involve regional partners as much as possible in the process of stabilising mali. it was the instability in the sahel that brought the previous malian government to an end. the union's involvement, in particular through the sahel security and development strategy, must, as a matter of priority, provide a lasting solution to the challenges facing the region, in the interests of malians, the saharan region and thus europe.
madam president, commissioner, a few months ago many of us regretted that the european union had not been more committed to preventing the crisis that erupted in mali, alongside france, at the time of the military intervention. the question now is to ensure peace and the return to democracy and, above all, to avoid a new crisis. all the reasons, all the causes, that led to the crisis that we have experienced still exist. with this prevention, we are faced with a full and complete competence of the european union's development policy. the financial and human efforts of france will have been in vain if the european union's commitment to prevention is not massive. we know, as my colleagues have said, that holding elections in july and august will not be enough to restore stability to the country, let alone the sahel region. we must therefore fully engage not only in the democratic process but also in preventing a new crisis.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have just returned from afghanistan, where i have been regularly for the last year. what i see and hear there arouses in me feelings of indignation and revolt. the intervention of allied forces has helped to plunge afghanistan into widespread corruption. the massive influx of funds has not allowed the development of this country, which has been ravaged by years of conflict and lacks sound economic and administrative structures. the european union would like to sign a cooperation agreement and continue sending funds without drawing any conclusions from this failure, or looking at whether the funds have been used properly and whether they have had a positive effect on the afghan population, which continues to lack everything from access to education to basic health care. and what about the thousands of war victims who have no accompaniment? let's stop being politically correct! the afghan people deserve better than this development policy of bad conscience. no, additional funds will not make up for the waste of a bad war. poorly managed and distributed, it will continue to provide comfort to some members of the afghan elite who have profited greatly from this financial windfall, while the population has to put up with widespread corruption and struggle for survival. we obviously cannot abandon afghanistan. we must pursue aid and development policies in health, education, agriculture and women's empowerment, as we did before 2001, but not blindly, not without first learning from our failure. in future we must ensure that european aid does not fuel corruption and that it really benefits the people. the future of afghanistan is at that price.
madam president, at a time when we are talking about leaving afghanistan, withdrawing from afghanistan, when everyone is trying to assess whether what has been happening for the last 12 years is a failure, not a failure, a semi-failure or a total failure, i believe that the european union would be better off looking ahead and asking itself what kind of partnership should be established with afghanistan. because we have to stay in afghanistan. we must continue to help the afghans. we must continue and, above all, not repeat the mistake we made in the 1990s when we left this country too soon to its fate and were then forced to return to conditions that were, without doubt, the worst possible. what we need to do for afghanistan, of course, is work on governance. that's what's at stake for the next few years. security will of course be one of the elements of this governance and, from this point of view, let me include in the partnership, which must be signed, the eupol mission which we have deployed under the common security and defence policy. a mission which will probably have to be assessed a little more closely, to draw lessons from it and to see how we can redeploy it, on the one hand geographically, probably, because it has to be as close as possible to the needs of the afghans, including in the provinces, and on the other hand also at the institutional level, because the police alone could not be the core target of this mission. i believe that we need to look stronger and broader in terms of institution building, but our presence in afghanistan is absolutely essential for the future.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this epa with central africa is contrary to the objective of regional integration which is at the heart of the epa process. the title of the agreement is misleading, since it concerns only one of the seven countries of central africa. to put it in the extreme, it is as if one member state were signing an agreement on behalf of the whole european union. the fact that equatorial guinea is no longer participating in the negotiations leads us to believe that the other central african states will not want an agreement that was negotiated in cameroon's sole interest. the method chosen by the commission is therefore not the right one, since it favours the rapid ratification of national agreements which reinforce a narrow specialisation around low value-added products, more for the world market than for regional trade. the recent amendment to the market access regulation will therefore only amplify this trend as the prospect of finalising regional epas before 1 october 2014 seems highly unlikely.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be deceived. while some progress has been made since the 2000 commitments, the achievement of the eight millennium development goals by 2015 is today, at best, a sad utopia, at worst, pure cynicism: drastic budget cuts, unfulfilled commitments by donor countries. in addition to agreeing on new goals, there is now the need to think about how to do more - or better - with less and less. this is firstly achieved through policy coherence for development, which must be at the heart of this development framework for the period beyond 2015. it is no longer a question of pursuing harmless foreign policies but of pursuing trade, financial and agricultural policies that contribute to the eradication of poverty. states must formally commit themselves to this. there is no development without sustainable development. sustainable use of natural resources and energy is essential to achieving a world free of hunger and poverty. the conclusions of the rio+20 conference will therefore have to be largely reflected in the next mdgs. this is the ambitious, voluntary and united message which the european union must take to the un next september.
madam president, we have known since last year that the target of reducing extreme poverty in the world by half has been achieved. this is very good news as the mdg initiative comes to an end. and while we have not yet reached all the goals we set for the year 2000, the good news is scarce enough to be welcomed today. however, some figures should encourage caution and perseverance, since 20% of the world's population today still lives in extreme poverty. the new international framework for the period beyond 2015 should therefore maintain the global objective of total poverty eradication as a priority. this new agenda will also have to address the new challenges that have emerged over the last 15 years, with the fight against inequality and sustainability to be at the heart of our concerns by 2030.
member of the commission. − madam president, this has been a very interesting debate. i would like to divide it into two parts, because there have been a lot of issues relating to development cooperation. filip kaczmarek’s report is about how we would like to see the world for ourselves, our children and our grandchildren. this is a report based on universality. it is not just about the eradication of poverty somewhere; it is actually about ensuring each human life has decent prospects. that is a huge goal and a huge ambition, but we also know that we cannot live if we do not support the poorest and most vulnerable. we need to build a society that is just. the whole framework is universal. it is not only about sub-saharan africa; it is about latvia as well. second is the sustainability element. sustainability, in its most limited form, is always seen as environmental sustainability, but there is also social sustainability. this involves questions of human rights, media freedom and inequality: to what extent society can allow wealth to go to the richest while the poorest live with what is left over. that is also an issue of sustainability. the report addresses environmental, social and also economic sustainability, because there are limits to that. i believe the debate will continue, but this report is on the right track. concerning eu development policy, yes, it will make an impact, and i am very grateful to charles goerens, alf svensson, gay mitchell, and to others who have influenced us, for the important achievements made in terms of mdgs. that has given us courage: if there is a focus, and we know what we would like to achieve, a global community, through national states, can achieve a lot. this definitely requires the national authorities also to be concerned, which is why we have peer review. pressure from civil society could enable this to be achieved in each and every society, in each and every country. i will give just one example, because some speakers have said that the road will not be easy and sometimes you have to face all kinds of additional challenges. i recently received an invitation commemorating an event which happened 25 years ago. this was the ‘baltic way’, when the people of the baltic states demonstrated for their freedom. now it seems that the baltic states in this parliament have been here forever, and yet their accession occurred so recently in historical terms. they have been huge supporters of the eu. there have been good days and bad days in terms of that support; there have been mistakes, there have been corruption cases, but at the end of the day the countries, because of support and their own will – which was very important – achieved change. we should have trust in our partner countries when they deserve that trust. there are mistakes, there are dishonest people in the world who sometimes compromise the support we give, but it should not discourage us from supporting people and countries where they need our support. the report has ambitious aims in terms of development policy. i welcome this. it is not the first report on the post-2015 development framework but it is an initial report, a starting point. it will be a process, because at the end of the day we need a bold and practical framework in place in order to move forward globally.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank the rapporteur michael cashman and the deve committee for recommending that this house give its consent to ratification of the second revision of the cotonou agreement. as you know, before it can enter into force, this second revision has to be ratified by the acp states, eu member states and the eu itself. so far, 54 of the 75 acp states parties to the agreement and 20 eu member states have done so. as the rapporteur clearly highlighted in his explanatory statement, the second revision of the cotonou agreement has much to recommend it. for instance, it puts international aid effectiveness principles into practice to seek greater impact and value for money; it promotes regional integration and trade issues; it highlights the interdependence between security and development, the importance of the mdgs and the global challenge of climate change, and it recognises the role of national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and the private sector. it supports better policy coherence for development (pcd) as a key element of the partnership and recognises the need for mutual accountability. as you would expect with negotiations of this kind, this second revision is the result of lengthy work and not all the results are satisfactory. in particular, the eu side was very keen to expand the list of themes for dialogue on specific political issues of mutual concern to include traditional grounds for non-discrimination, in line with provisions by which the eu and the acp countries are bound under international conventions. i understand the dissatisfaction concerning in particular the non-discrimination clause and the non-inclusion of a specific reference to non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. on this i would like to reassure this house and the rapporteur that the eu considers human rights to be non-negotiable issues. i participated in the last stages of negotiations and i really regret that we have been stalled in these negotiations. it is true that in these negotiations, when you have all parties round the table, unfortunately on the acp side it the lowest common denominator that prevails. not all acp countries are against the inclusion of such provisions, but as some of them were very clearly opposed we did not succeed. i believe that we need to work with the partner countries that understand our position on sexual minority issues, in particular, to help us to convince the acp parties in general that it should be reflected in our next-generation treaty with the acp countries. this means that there is still work to be done, but i would like to reassure the rapporteur that we will not abandon the issue for that reason. our own credibility is at stake: if we support countries, we support them on the basis of a shared understanding of human rights. i believe these are really crucial issues that need to be dealt with. it also matters when you discuss these issues. our relations with the acp states have been rather nervous for different reasons – not just this one. however, i feel the atmosphere is improving now. the latest acp-eu ministerial meeting was much more positive; there is much more coherence and i believe that, with the right preparation, we can deal with this issue. it is work in progress. however i would like also to say some positive things about it. the new wording of paragraph 4 of article 8 gives us the option of discussing lgbt rights with acp partners, and so far the eu has made full use of this. discussions are already taking place locally, through the eu delegations and with eu member states’ support. i would also like again to make a commitment to take concrete measures to exert pressure on this issue and to raise it in our relations and dialogues with third countries. i have been personally involved in trying to step up dialogue on non-discrimination; it is a recurring issue in my meetings at the highest level. at a more general level, the eu welcomes the resolution adopted by this house on 5 july 2012 on violence against lesbians and lgbti rights in africa. the eu delegations have been instructed to use our 2010 toolkit promoting lgbti rights proactively in instances of discrimination. under the new eu human rights action plan, adopted by the foreign affairs council last year, the toolkit will be upgraded to eu human rights guidelines. through the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly many members of this house have also raised the issue. i think it is important to discuss the issue even if we sometimes get a negative response. it is an issue which is very close to us. our partners should understand that we need to be credible in the eyes of our citizens; without this issue we are not credible, and that is the end of the story. so i think it is a partnership, it is an understanding, but partners need to understand each others’ concerns. i am also ready to listen to our partners if they say well, there is a reason for this, and let us speak about it: i believe that is the way forward. i agree with you that we must find the best way of tackling this issue and i suggest that together we could pursue the dialogue on non-discrimination. we will, for instance, step up new awareness and protection initiatives through the call for proposals i announced in june last year. we will keep lgbt rights as a priority in our article 8 political dialogue with those countries where the situation is particularly difficult. the cotonou agreement will expire in 2020. since its entry into force our world has undergone some of the fastest changes it has ever seen. our relationship with the acp countries is changing as fast as they and the rest of the world are changing, and our development policy is changing too. however, from what i have seen in recent times from the acp countries –because it is up to them to answer – they would like to keep a relationship with the european union. there have been acp summits and ministerial meetings; there are very clear signals that they would like to continue our relationship and it is important that we, the european union, also reflect how we would like this relationship to be. there are more than 70 acp countries. it is a huge international force; it is a game-changer in the world. i believe this partnership has a lot to offer, but some of the issues that michael mentioned today should belong to the past and we should be able to look more towards the future. i believe that our relationship with the acp through the cotonou agreement helps those countries a lot but also helps europeans to understand better our partners’ needs and our partners’ aspirations.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cotonou agreement is a unique model of multidimensional cooperation between the member states of the european union and the acp states. this agreement has often been described as exemplary, serving as a model for other agreements between the european union and third countries. the political dimension of the partnership plays a central role and the involvement of civil society contributes to improving the effectiveness of this cooperation. the review of the agreement confirms that it is of long-term strategic importance to both parties. it was necessary to adapt it to the recent changes in international relations and in relations between the union and the acp countries, and to examine in depth a number of issues of vital importance to both sides. i would like to highlight the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which is part of this agreement, in promoting political dialogue and greater understanding between the peoples of the european union and the acp countries in particular. the revised agreement better reflects the trend towards greater regionalisation and pan-african development. the european union must promote and foster regional integration. in addition, the agreement strengthens the role of local authorities, non-state actors and national parliamentarians in the acp countries in making the cotonou process more democratic. i would like to commend the work of my colleague, mr michael cashman, for his persistence in the fight against the serious discrimination faced by homosexuals in the acp countries. this is a key point in our relations with the acp countries. negotiations to strengthen the principle of human rights clauses, which are in fact non-negotiable, and the sanctions applicable in the event of non-compliance with these clauses have failed. article 8 (4) has not been reformulated to reflect the values of the european union. the acp states have refused to include sexual orientation in the scope of article 8 (4). homosexuality is still considered a crime in thirty-eight acp countries and homosexuals face the death penalty in five of them. commissioner, we cannot compromise on this. since when has europe been willing to accept such a violation of human rights? human rights are non-negotiable in the political dialogue with our acp partners.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the cotonou agreement is by far the only international partnership that brings together so many countries and covers such a large number of subjects. we should be proud of it, but that should not prevent criticism when it is justified, and this second revision is not exempt from it. while i welcome the fact that the achievement of the mdgs and policy coherence are now at the heart of our partnership, i deeply regret the failure of the negotiations on the human rights clauses. the most notorious example is homosexuality, which continues to be criminalized in too many acp countries. in the run-up to the third review in 2015, the union will have to be more assertive in its dialogue with its partners. this is in line with the treaty on european union, article 21 of which states that 'our external action shall be directed to promoting in the rest of the world the principles which have guided the creation, development and enlargement of the european union'.
in writing. like the other members of my political group, i have decided to approve the agreement on the transition to an economic partnership agreement between the european community and central africa. i think it was necessary to send a positive message to the central african states. such a partnership agreement could in particular encourage integration between the central african states which could be beneficial in the long term for the stability of the region.
in writing. an economic partnership agreement is a first step towards deeper regional integration with central africa. the two sides should pay attention to several points: taking into account the inherent diversities of each side and, especially, on the part of central africa, respecting the commitments made in this field. several countries will play a leading role in ensuring that cemac is transformed into a genuine customs union: cameroon, which will have to continue its efforts in the economic field, gabon and guinea. in order for this partnership to be successful, it will be necessary to stimulate intra-regional trade, particularly in the fields of energy and transport. voting in favour of this report is a strong signal to central africa, demonstrating the importance of trade with this region for the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the acp countries to bring them into line with the wto. the trade preferences enjoyed by these countries had expired in 2007, so a new transitional economic partnership agreement was needed for them to continue to benefit from a specific tariff preference. as an alternate member of the eu-acp parliamentary assembly, i encourage economic and social development projects for responsible cooperation between the eu and acp countries
in writing. this agreement is a crucial step towards developing our relations with the whole of the central african region. i am hopeful that we will soon be able to reduce the barriers to trade and create the necessary networks. our cooperation will work all the better if the region strengthens its cohesion and unity, and if the union learns to speak with one voice to send clear messages to its partners.
in writing. i supported this agreement with central africa because it is essential to support our partners but it must nevertheless be done in accordance with our values of reciprocity. the european union must better control spending in this area so that every euro spent actually contributes to the development of these regions, and thus enables us to increase our trade.
in writing. i supported the recommendation of my colleague david martin in the plenary on 13 june. the aim of this recommendation was to obtain parliament's approval for the conclusion of a stepping stone agreement towards an economic partnership agreement covering the whole of the central african region. its adoption is a strong signal to central africa. so i'm glad he was adopted.
in writing. i supported the progress agreement on the ec/central africa economic partnership agreement (epa). the epa aims to promote sustainable growth by offering third countries privileged access to the union market. the epa allows a third country to be exempted from customs duties on the entry of its products into the internal market. since only cameroon is prepared to negotiate such an agreement, this first step is intended to enable the country to benefit from trade opportunities with the union from now on. parliament therefore called for the partnership to be signed, while recalling the importance of concluding a comprehensive partnership including all the central african states.
in writing. this agreement is necessary to bring the eu into line with wto rules as previous trade preferences were found to be contrary to wto rules. this agreement is a step towards a comprehensive regional agreement with the central african region that would benefit both parties and recognise cultural and developmental differences.
in writing. this report endorses the blackmail of the odious trade preferences that the eu-cameroon interim agreement is the fruit of. it also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the trade war, and to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the trade war. the misleading title of the agreement is a most unworthy indication of this: it is not an eu/central africa agreement but an eu/cameroon agreement! i denounce this report and the despicable methods of which it is the standard-bearer.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the stage agreement towards an economic partnership agreement in central africa. i condemn in general the trade agreements and free trade agreements and the gradual liberalisation of customs tariffs which protect the interests of large european companies at the expense of the general interest. cameroon has committed to liberalising 80% of its imports by 2023. this is worrying for the populations concerned. it is only the liberalisation of trade, trade in services or agriculture. this is not synonymous with development in the light of the conditions stated. it is simply a tool of domination by the rich countries. i call this neocolonialism. for example, the opening up of the cameroonian market can only be detrimental to the nascent local industries. moreover, signing an agreement with cameroon only weakens central africa as a whole, undermines the fragile balance of the region and undermines the principle of promoting regional integration mentioned in the cotonou agreement. this is the opposite of the development and regional cooperation policies which should be at the heart of the eu's relations with the countries of the south. that is why i voted against this resolution".
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement amending the cotonou agreement for the second time. this agreement governs the existing trade relations between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific states. this revision was necessary in particular to take account of developments in international relations between the eu and the acp states.
in writing. at the acp-ec council of ministers on 28 and 29 may 2009, the second revision of the cotonou agreement was launched. several factors justified this revision: the desire of each party to deepen certain aspects of the agreement (political, institutional, economic, trade, development aid, regional integration) and the changes that have taken place on the international scene and between the two parties. this revision reflects the evolution of the links between the two parties and makes it possible to develop the partnership between the acp countries and the european union. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft revision of the cotonou agreement. this new version of the agreement emphasizes the exceptional nature of the agreement, which will have to be amended when the acp states are able to assume their full wto obligations. as a member of the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i support this initiative to deepen development programmes and aid with the acp countries.
in writing. the cotonou agreement is a cornerstone of our relations with the countries of the african, caribbean and pacific region and needs to be updated regularly to ensure that it is in line with market developments. with this amendment we are strengthening our cooperation in several areas, but we are calling for vigilance on a number of issues and values which are of particular importance to europeans.
in writing. i voted in favour of the redefinition of the cotonou agreements because i believe it is important to adapt our position to geopolitical changes. promoting deepening economic cooperation and regional integration will allow the acp-eu relationship to continue and deepen in the interests of both parties.
in writing. i supported the recommendation of my colleague david martin in the plenary on 13 june. the recommendation was aimed at getting parliament to approve the conclusion of the cotonou agreement after a second review had taken place. this second revision is fully satisfactory. i therefore welcome the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. on thursday i voted in favour of the second amendment to the cotonou agreement of 23 june 2000. signed in 1970, this agreement established a unique model of development cooperation between the eu and the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific). in 2000, the framework of the cooperation agreement was amended to provide for a review of the agreement every five years. as regards the second amendment of 28 and 29 may 2009, we expressed reservations on certain parts of the agreement which do not reflect the values of the union and the position of parliament. among these reservations, we regret the lack of commitment to respect for human rights by the acp countries and the non-inclusion of homosexuality in the non-discrimination clause.
in writing. the report endorses the second revision of the cotonou agreement, but has reservations. this is a position which defies all logic: if there are reservations, why approve the agreement? i am opposed to this new version of the cotonou agreement. it does not change the underlying free trade logic, to the benefit of multinationals and to the detriment of the peoples of the african, caribbean and pacific states. the economic partnership agreements are not in any way called into question, the control of so-called 'illegal' migrants is strengthened, and the additions so much vaunted on the fight against climate change are actually confined to the sole participation of the acp states in the carbon market, which has shown its inefficiency and dangers. i am voting against this text and denouncing it.
in writing. while welcoming the positive progress made in the amendment of the partnership agreement with the african, caribbean and pacific countries, the report calls on the council to amend certain grounds considered unsatisfactory, in particular with regard to human rights and discrimination based on sexual orientation, in a future review. it is regrettable that the european union does not take greater account of the respect for human rights in these agreements. homosexuality is still considered a crime in 39 acp countries and is punishable by death in five of them. to say nothing, to condemn, or even to discuss such matters is to approve of such practices in silence. this is a huge affront to the most fundamental principles of the eu. i regret that the commission, which is very insistent when it comes to liberalizing trade with the acp countries, is not more committed to the issue of discrimination and crimes based on sexual orientation. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i am glad that parliament has thus approved the amendments to the cotonou agreement. the agreement between us and the acp states must be regularly adapted to the changes and challenges we are facing. but it is true that we must think now of the post-cotonou period and of the links which will unite us with the acp states from 2020 onwards. i believe it is crucial that the european union maintains a privileged relationship with all the acp states, while paying particular attention to the most fragile and poorest countries. we also need to be more effective in delivering our aid. the european union has committed to allocate more than 31.5 billion euros for the 11th edf which will cover the period 2014 - 2020, which is a good thing. i'm glad you did. but now we need that money to make it possible for millions of africans to lift themselves out of poverty and lay the foundations for sustainable and inclusive development.
mr president, as usual, our parliament is giving lessons to the world but fails to sweep the member states' doors. in my country - france - freedom of expression is constantly restricted by a number of laws that are imposed on politicians and journalists alike. for example, the pleven act, under the guise of fighting racism, actually forbids the issue of immigration to be raised except to speak well of immigration in general and immigrants in particular. the gayssot act, under the pretext of combating denialism, imposes a one-sided view of history due to a communist mp, which exists in germany, where people are imprisoned. the hateful has even been pushed to imprison the defendants' lawyers, such as the courageous sylvia stolz. the perben law, under the pretext of combating homophobia, actually forbids making moral judgments about sex and preferring sex based on the love of a father and a mother to give life to their children. finally, the taubira slavery act deals with slavery but not the slavery that whites have also suffered from throughout history. this is completely unacceptable... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. in view of the importance of freedom of the press and media, i voted in favour of this report, which recalls in particular that 'the right to freedom of expression is a universal human right, which is the foundation of democracy, and is essential for the realisation of other rights which people are striving to uphold in the world'. it is unacceptable that journalists are still being murdered or oppressed. as a member of parliament, i firmly believe that it is our duty to oppose such practices wherever they take place. the union must therefore be vigilant and constantly promote freedom of the press and media in its relations with third countries.
in writing. respect for freedom of the press and media worldwide is fundamental to our societies: a free media is the sine qua non of a well-functioning democracy. all over the world, and more specifically in countries at war, the freedom of journalists is threatened. it is the responsibility of all governments to guarantee freedom of the press and media. europe, through its engagement in numerous multilateral international fora, can play a leading role in promoting press and media freedom with international decision-makers. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which shows the way towards guaranteeing the protection of journalists at international level. freedom of expression is at the heart of free societies, so it is vital that the press and media are able to operate independently from political or financial pressure. we have also asked the commission and the council to take a stronger stance towards countries which do not guarantee the safety of journalists. the european institutions should be more forceful in condemning the serious abuses of press freedom in third countries and in the eu.
in writing. protecting freedom of expression around the world is protecting democracy and therefore the most fundamental rights of each of us. the development of digital technology is a turning point and, while we can welcome the use of it, for example, during the arab spring as a springboard for freedom of expression, we must remain vigilant to the censorship, abuse and controls that still exist in many parts of the world. the european union has a role to play here, and i hope it will take it up.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague marietje schaake in the plenary on 13 june. this report was about press and media freedom in the world. he was alarmed by the general downward trend in the rankings of press and media freedom in different countries, both inside and outside europe. it denounced the increasing use of pressure, physical violence, murder and other serious abuses, which are not always followed by criminal prosecution. it is essential that the press and the media can operate independently. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. freedom of the press has long been recognised as a fundamental right within the european union. article 11 (2) of the charter of fundamental rights states that 'the freedom of the media and their pluralism shall be respected'. it is therefore essential that the press and the media can operate independently without political or financial pressure. however, there are still countries today where journalists are often subjected to serious abuse and are sometimes seriously injured or worse murdered with impunity. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which urges the european union to adopt a stronger position towards these states in order to guarantee the safety of journalists at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's report in favour of better protection of freedom of expression throughout the world. as a champion of fundamental values, the eu must defend freedom of expression beyond its borders. this fundamental principle is an essential condition for the development of pluralist, democratic, open and free societies. the protection of journalists from threats, pressure and violence is more necessary than ever in view of the increasingly frequent attacks on the freedom of the press and media, both within and outside europe. we deplore the increasing number of violations of the independence of the media, which are subject to political and financial pressure, particularly in some member states of the union.
in writing. the press and media must be able to operate independently without political or financial pressure. the european union should be more firm to ensure that serious abuses against journalists do not go unpunished.
in writing. in the light of greek events, this report appears to be a far-fetched farce. the defence of press and media freedom will remain hypocritical as long as the european union does not recognise the damage caused by its own austerity policies, which are responsible for the regression in media pluralism and the working conditions of journalists. at best, the proposed measures will serve as a pretext against countries whose regimes are not in the good graces of the european union. before the european union gives lessons to the whole world, it would do better to sweep up the dust in front of its own door.
in writing. freedom of the press and media is a fundamental freedom, yet it is subject to many violations. as in the current events in turkey, journalists and citizen bloggers are subjected to intimidation campaigns, imprisonment, torture, and censorship in many states. because of the abuse of the anti-terrorist laws, journalists are condemned for the sole purpose of their profession. however, freedom of the press and media has always been a part of the establishment of democracy and the rule of law. and today, new modes of communication allow for the rapid sharing of information, and have helped to bring about the arab spring, for example. in this resolution, the european parliament commits itself to promoting this fundamental freedom and to supporting all persecuted and imprisoned journalists worldwide. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted for this report on press and media freedom in the world, for which i was the fictitious rapporteur. freedom of the press and, more broadly, freedom of expression are recognized as universal human rights. the need for an independent and pluralistic press is reaffirmed. better yet, the report warns of the dangers of media empires in the hands of political figures and the concentration of media ownership. the need to ensure the financial and political independence of the public service media is not forgotten. this takes on a special flavour in view of what is happening in greece, and makes me say once again that the eu should sweep up its own backyard before it wants to give lessons to the rest of the world. the report nevertheless begins with a self-criticism, and recalls that the eu can only be credible if freedom of the press and media is protected and respected within it. this includes governments that "increasingly resort to legal pressure, for example by abusing anti-terrorism or anti-extremism legislation". good to hear.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which amends a 2003 directive on the reuse of public sector information. the existing rules in this field in the different member states now need to be harmonised to enable businesses to benefit fully from the internal market by being able to easily use public data from other member states.
in writing. the reuse of public sector information differs from one member state to another. the existence of common rules would facilitate the exchange of public sector information (with exceptions) between member states and the activity of undertakings on this market. even beyond the commercial and non-commercial benefits that european businesses could benefit from, facilitating the re-use of public sector information would also be a positive for citizens and governments. the establishment of common rules in the member states could reduce the marginal costs of producing, reproducing and disseminating documents (with the exception of public sector bodies which must generate sufficient revenue). the rules on the digitisation of documents held by cultural institutions will be reviewed at the end of the 10th year. the documents exchanged should also be available in different formats. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. at present, there are no common rules on the reuse of public sector information. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which aims to standardise the rules to help businesses take advantage of the size of the internal market and to facilitate the use of public data from other eu countries.
in writing. public sector information is a wealth of information that is still largely untapped, but which can be useful not only to citizens but also to businesses. they are therefore a potentially important tool for growth, and i therefore support the objective of widening their access, while ensuring a fair system for public institutions which are subject to these obligations of openness and transparency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which establishes common rules on the reuse of public sector information. public sector information (e.g. maps and satellite images, statistics, legislation, etc.) is the most abundant source of information in europe. this information is a real driver of economic activity in the european union. this text will be of real benefit to european businesses, since the harmonisation of the rules on such information at european level will strengthen the internal market and thus enable european businesses to benefit from an enlarged internal market.
in writing. the public sector has a wide range of information in a wide range of fields, including social, economic, geographical, meteorological and tourist information. in 2003, the european union adopted a directive that provides for the possibility of reusing its public sector information. it has had a positive impact on the european economy, in particular by creating new jobs. however, over the last 10 years, digital content has been continuously improving to such an extent that there is now a real data market in europe. it is therefore necessary to revise the 2003 directive to bring it into line with the current context. in addition, the introduction of a new legal framework will stimulate the economy and create new jobs. i therefore voted in favour of this text because it is perfectly suited to this.
in writing. i have approved the parliament's text on the reuse of public sector information. in the course of their activities, public administrations collect and produce information such as statistical or geographical data. this reliable and up-to-date information is a valuable resource for businesses and economic operators. the economic gain from the reuse of this data is estimated at eur 40 billion. the aim of parliament is therefore to promote transparency in public administrations while stimulating innovation and private sector growth. private information is exempt from these provisions and is protected against any illegal use.
in writing. the introduction of common rules on the use of public sector information will improve the internal market and provide an opportunity for both business and the voluntary sector.
in writing. the report is a machine to weaken governments by encouraging them to sell public sector information to the private market. under the pretext of making this information accessible to citizens for the purposes of control and transparency, the eu not only forces member states to entrust the management of their public service information to multinational companies in the sectors concerned (culture, health, statistics, etc.) which will derive commercial benefits from it, but it also asks the states themselves to take care of the accessibility and compatibility of this data. i voted against it.
in writing. currently, the reuse of public sector information is subject to a wide range of national interpretation. it was time to harmonise the rules at european level in order to fully achieve the objective of this legislation: to provide maximum transparency on public sector data. more specifically, the widest possible dissemination of this data would benefit everyone: citizens, businesses and even governments. however, a number of exceptions to confidentiality are necessary in certain cases. but some of this information is still not widely disseminated, due to the lack of resources for the administrations, whereas it is a source of transparency and accessibility for citizens. the harmonisation of rules at european level will therefore allow the market to take full advantage of the commercial (for businesses) and non-commercial (for administrations, ngos, citizens) opportunities offered by the re-use of public data.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which recalls the european parliament's desire 'to complete first readings on at least all the commission proposals on financial services currently on the table before the end of the parliamentary term in spring 2014'. the measures proposed by the european commission are necessary to strengthen the financial sector and to prevent the recurrence of the crises we have experienced. i also welcome the considerable work of european commissioner michel barnier in restoring the credibility and confidence of citizens in the european financial system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal to ask the commission to speed up its work on the pending legislative initiatives in the area of financial services that it has announced for years. the institutions must react swiftly to the difficulties of financial services in order to strengthen the efficiency and robustness of financial markets. reform of the financial sector will ensure its stability, which is a necessary condition for the return of sustainable economic growth and employment in the eu.
in writing. to restore growth, a stable economic and financial system is needed. we shall achieve this stability through banking union, the foundations of which must be laid as soon as possible. the europeans do not understand why we are taking so long to implement these reforms, and i hope that the council and the commission will be able to live up to their increasingly pressing expectations.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution b7-0304/2013 on the lack of progress in the council and the delay by the commission in adopting certain proposals on financial services. the motion for a resolution was adopted by 483 votes to 27, with 65 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i supported the parliament's draft resolution on the lack of progress in the council and the delay in the commission in adopting certain measures relating to financial services. we denounce the lack of proactivity on the part of the council, where the negotiations are stalled. the commission is awaiting a council decision before proposing legislation in this area. the french commissioner michel barnier is in charge of this dossier. the banking union and the guarantee of deposits in banks are reforms that european citizens are looking forward to and are demanding more protection from the eu. parliament called on the council to complete these reforms without delay.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because it is not normal that member states cannot agree on important measures promised in the context of financial market regulation following the crisis. decisions should be taken by qualified majority, not by consensus, where the council rules allow it in order to reform the financial markets sector more quickly.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on the lack of progress on the financial services issue. the growing indebtedness of economic agents is of particular concern. financial engineering multiplies the different types of financial assets. the sums involved are enormous, and while the profits may be enormous, so are the losses. the risks are thus totally out of control in the context of financial slippage and drift. and as we saw during the 2008 financial crisis, the social consequences are dramatic for the people who pay for the bailouts. the text is confined to a technical approach, criticising the current situation in financial services but mainly dealing with delays in the implementation of the instruments. this text could have been an opportunity to strongly criticise the financialisation of the economy and to denounce the shortcomings (and the word is weak) of the european institutions and the member states in curbing this predatory phenomenon. so this is a lost opportunity. so i made the choice to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on turkey, in which the eu expresses its concern at police brutality, condemning the excessive use of force by the turkish police against demonstrators. although this text is rather harsh on the turkish government, i found it to be rather proportionate. as a member of the eu-turkey parliamentary delegation, i am following the developments in the country closely, hoping that this crisis can serve as a springboard for relaunching turkey's reform process.
in writing. in theory, any opening of negotiations for accession to the european union must be preceded by compliance with a number of criteria, known as the copenhagen criteria, in particular with respect for human rights and the rule of law. especially when they started. you could have taken advantage of the events in turkey to draw the necessary conclusions: the cessation of negotiations and a reorientation of our relations with that country towards other forms of cooperation or partnership. of course you didn't. you could have drawn a parallel with the way the french government has suppressed the huge popular movement against the so-called marriage for all: arbitrary arrests and detentions, restrictions on freedom of movement and demonstration, police violence on the orders of the authorities... hundreds of complaints have been lodged to protest against these shameful methods which the government uses only against the "well-bred" french. the trocadero scum who turned a supposedly festive gathering into a night of rioting and looting must be laughing. of course, there were no deaths in france. but the principle remains the same. and for you, all peoples are worthy of attention, except the peoples of europe.
in writing. turkey is a large country and a legitimate candidate for accession to the european union and is recognised as such by the european institutions. in recent days, there has been a disproportionate and excessive repression of protests in the country. that is why our european parliament has decided to express its opinion on the situation in turkey by adopting this joint resolution. recep tayyip erdogan is democratically elected, but this should not prevent him from listening attentively to the legitimate aspirations of a part of his population to respect their rights, freedom of expression and media. turkey is playing an increasingly important role on the international scene and is becoming an indispensable player in the crises affecting the region. but its legitimacy will be complete only when it has improved its democratic institutions, strengthened the rule of law and ensured respect for fundamental freedoms.
in writing. the ongoing protest in turkey has prompted the european union to react because turkey has always been a close partner. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament. we have strongly condemned the intolerable violence and the growing authoritarianism of the government in power. by adopting this text, we wanted to send a strong signal to the turkish people in their fight for democracy.
in writing. i supported the joint motion for a resolution b7-0305/2013 on the situation in turkey. this resolution strongly condemns the events currently taking place in turkey. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report by the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution condemning the use of excessive force by the police against demonstrators in turkey. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in a democratic society, we have recalled, freedom of expression for citizens and the media is a fundamental right. we therefore condemn the turkish government's violations of these principles, as well as the police's severe and disproportionate repression of the demonstrators. we demand that those responsible for police violence be brought to justice and that the government engage in a policy of dialogue and conciliation with civil society. therefore, these violations of eu rights and values prove that turkey is not ready to integrate into the european union and that many long-term reforms are needed.
in writing. the resolution has the merit of condemning the repressive crackdown currently being carried out by prime minister erdogan against the popular and peaceful protests in turkey. the congratulations in this resolution to the other leaders of the conservative religious party in power in turkey (president gühl and deputy prime minister arinç) seem to me to be misplaced. europe does not have to sort out between good and bad "religious conservatives" who have been applying the same policy of imposing religious norms on turkish society for several years at the expense of freedoms. the lessons of democracy and separation of powers addressed to turkey also seem to me to be out of place coming from a european union whose institutions are far from democratic. moreover, the call in this resolution for consensus between the government and the opposition to solve the country's problems does not seem to me to be a democratic solution that respects the will of the turkish people. i cannot therefore support this resolution, even though i share the condemnation of the violence of power which it expresses. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. europe, the cradle of human rights, has decided to condemn the acts committed in turkey in recent weeks. democracy and the fundamental freedoms it provides, such as freedom of expression for citizens and the media, are core values of the eu. turkey has long wanted to join the european union, but these acts remind us of some of the reasons why we are reluctant. it is imperative to remember that fundamental rights and freedoms are unconditional.
in writing. i voted for this resolution condemning the crackdown on protesters in turkey in taskim square. as a reminder, many protesters occupied taksim square on may 31 to protest against the cutting of trees to allow a new real estate project in gezi park in istanbul. this resolution, although imperfect, is nevertheless a resolution of solidarity with the demonstrators and denounces the attitude of the turkish government and in particular of prime minister erdogan. the police brutality is widely condemned, as is the silence of the mainstream turkish media, which i welcome. for me, these events only make erdogan's authoritarian ways visible on the international stage. and that's a good thing because it's been too long. i signed my group's amendments which recalled that this movement was a sign of the deeper problems facing the turkish people, who do not enjoy basic rights and freedoms as citizens and workers and whose living standards are not improving despite the economic growth of their country.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of a resolution on the situation in turkey, expressing our deep concern at the brutal police crackdown on protesters in istanbul's gezi park over the past two weeks. we warn the turkish government against taking harsh measures against peaceful protesters. we also ask prime minister erdogan to choose a position of unity and conciliation so as not to further aggravate the situation. what started as a simple protest against a planned urbanisation of downtown istanbul has become a national revolt against the authoritarian turkish government. police overstepped their law enforcement role, resulting in the deaths of four people and the imprisonment of more than 70 journalists. the denial of freedom of expression and the right to protest shows the authoritarian drift of the regime. those responsible for police violence must be brought to justice, peaceful protesters currently detained must be immediately released and victims compensated. this repression is clearly contrary to the principles and values which the european union is committed to defending, such as pluralistic democracy and the rule of law. the situation in turkey can only have adverse consequences on its eu accession process.
in writing. i fully supported this report by my colleagues elmar brok and roberto gualtieri, which takes stock of the functioning of the european external action service (eeas), three years after its creation. the european union is a global actor and as such, it must make its voice heard beyond its borders. in this respect, the eeas should have more ambitious action. in addition, better coordination between the diplomatic services of the 27 member states and the eeas could bring about significant economies of scale and increase both the effectiveness and the scope of action undertaken at european level. for all these reasons, it is necessary to develop the eeas to make it an indispensable actor in international relations.
in writing. when the eeas was established in 2010, it was expected that its organisation and functioning would be subject to review in mid-2013. the role of the eeas is to conduct the external policy of the european union. the rapidly changing global political and economic situation requires the eeas to adapt its activities, which must be proactive in coordinating its human and financial resources if europe is to have a significant impact on the international scene. in order to enhance the efficiency and visibility of the eeas, it is essential that foreign ministers take part more regularly in european external action. strengthening the coordinating role of the vice-president of the commission/high representative and her leadership should also improve the visibility and the power of action of the eeas. in the future, the eeas will have a key role to play in relations with third countries and external financial instruments. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of simplification and increased synergy between the council and commission services. the eeas, which was set up two years ago, is the eu's chance to see a genuine european foreign policy come into being. it is currently handicapped by structural and political problems, which is why i voted for a revision to improve the functioning with a view to unifying the crisis management units and improving recruitment. the new feature of the eeas was the creation of european delegations abroad, which are still struggling to find their place alongside the embassies of the member states. we have therefore considered the possibility of grouping together certain services provided by the diplomatic and consular services of the member states at european level to provide protection for european citizens not represented in a given country.
in writing. i supported the recommendation proposal by my colleagues elmar brok and roberto gualtieri. this proposal for a recommendation concerned the 2013 review of the organisation and functioning of the european external action service. significant progress has been made in the establishment of the eeas. however, it is clear that improvements are needed in terms of synergies and coordination between institutions, political leadership and visibility. i welcome the adoption of this proposal which highlights these needs.
in writing. the european external action service was launched in 2011. it must be the essential asset in the creation of a genuine foreign policy of the european union. to this end, it is necessary to strengthen the powers of the service, including by enshrining an increased role for the high representative as vice-president of the commission and by adapting the competences of the european delegations to meet the needs of the eu and promote its interests. i voted for this text because it is perfectly in line with this.
in writing. on thursday, i voted in favour of the revision of the organisation and functioning of the european external action service (eeas). the eeas was established in 2011 following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty to ensure the coordination and coherence of the eu's external action. under the leadership of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs, catherine ashton, the eeas promotes the emergence of a european foreign policy that safeguards european interests. with this in mind, we have decided to strengthen the political leadership of this institution and its diplomatic corps. we want to facilitate coordination between the commission and the council and give the high representative more weight. in addition, the structure of the eeas needs to be simplified in order to provide a more efficient command and a more effective crisis response system. the reform comes after the crisis in mali, where the eu failed to provide a rapid and united response.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because we will need to improve the efficiency of the european external action service. duplication with the council secretariat can be avoided and savings made. parliament's control must be strengthened.
in writing. the european external action service (eeas) is essential in the creation of a genuine european foreign policy. yet the eu's diplomatic voice is still struggling to be heard, as illustrated by its slow response to the crisis in mali. the functioning of the eeas needs to be further improved to be more efficient. in this context, this resolution, which i support, calls in particular for: - the eeas decision-making process to be more coherent, clear and cost-effective; - the role of the high representative as vice-president of the commission to be strengthened; - in unstable or fragile countries, eu delegations to be staffed with security and defence officers to have the appropriate skills to be able to effectively defend and promote eu interests in each region; - the eeas' accountability to parliament to be strengthened, with its scrutiny being essential to enhance the legitimacy of eu external action and ensure that it is understood by citizens.
mr president, mrs andrikienė's report on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief contains some excellent things, but it contains many inaccuracies and sets out principles which are so broad and ill-defined that it is difficult to apply them to all the member states. it would undermine the traditional principles of some. for example, the right to observe holidays in accordance with the precepts of one's own religion. in france, by national tradition, the days of rest are fixed according to the calendar inspired by the christian history of that nation, and it would be difficult for the republic to adapt to each religion. similarly, there must be complete freedom of expression, of course, in criticism of religion, of the absence of religion or of atheism. but it cannot be used to ridicule, under the guise of blasphemy, the convictions of everyone, whose violation would undermine the right to respect for the person. i have no sympathy for the charlie hebdo cartoons and i have a lot of criticism of exhibitions such as piss christ.
in writing. i consider freedom of religion or belief to be a fundamental principle of democratic values as promoted by the eu and that is why i voted in favour of this text. the promotion of religious freedom should be one of the pillars of european foreign policy towards third countries.
in writing. in voting in favour of this resolution, i wanted to recall the importance of freedom of religion and belief, as well as pluralism and diversity in the media. recent events have shown once again that freedom of expression and the media are constantly under threat, and it is up to the eu to play a role in promoting the interdependence of cultures and in combating violence in response to free speech protests.
in writing. freedom of belief or religion is a fundamental element of our individual freedom. i support the ambition to adopt european guidelines in this area: this would make it possible to clearly state our ambitions and our action to our international partners. the european union has a responsibility to defend our values throughout the world.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague laima liucija andrikien in the plenary on 13 june. the report recalled the need to create an ambitious set of instruments to advance the right to freedom of religion or belief in the context of the union's external policy. i'm glad you did.
in writing. freedom of religion or belief is a fundamental right of the european union, enshrined in article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights. however, the reconciliation of this with freedom of expression is a frequent source of tension. indeed, modern media tools today contribute to a strong interdependence of cultures and times, which significantly increases the risk of ethnic conflicts. the union must therefore take measures to prevent intercultural violence. i have taken a position in favour of this text because it promotes freedom of religion or belief without threatening other freedoms and rights such as freedom of expression.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief in the world. as a defender of fundamental rights, the european union has a role to play on the international stage in promoting these principles. parliament has adopted a set of objectives and instruments to significantly improve respect for these human rights. these measures will therefore make it possible to identify more effectively and provide practical support to victims of violations of freedom of religion or belief.
in writing. the european union should promote freedom of religion or belief without threatening other freedoms or rights and should place this freedom at the heart of all the union's external action.
in writing. this report makes some concessions to the principle of secularism. he calls for the "secularisation" of public education and the denial of the existence of blasphemy offences. these are principles which are not guaranteed in many eu countries. however, the report prefers the anglo-saxon concept of "freedom of religion and belief" to the more broadly and equally protected concept of "freedom of conscience" that protects the right to believe or not to believe. however, without the protection of absolute freedom of conscience, religious freedom can lead to a strong grip of religions on public space and public debate to the detriment of secularism and the equality of citizens. i would also point out that the report considers that the right to practice a religion in a collective manner should not be limited to places of worship. despite a commitment in principle to secularism, this report does not therefore assume all the consequences. secularism is not a partial operating mode. it's global or it's nothing. i vote against it.
in writing. being fundamentally convinced of the merits and benefits that the eu could derive from a deep partnership with the united states, i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by my epp colleague francisco josé millan mon. the united states and the eu have a special responsibility on the international stage and the common values we stand for must lead us to cooperate in international forums such as the un.
in writing. according to the figures provided by the commission, the free trade agreement with the united states should allow the eu to increase its gdp by 0.5% per year within 15 years. the aim of this report, along with the figures put forward by the commission, was to assess the current state of transatlantic relations - economic, trade, political, environmental and social - not only with the united states and the european union but also with the entire american continent (north and south), and to identify the elements which could strengthen them. the report thus mentions the areas where enhanced cooperation will be essential during the negotiations: governance, human rights, security, energy, social and economic issues, the closure of guantanamo.
in writing. as negotiations for an eu/us free trade agreement have begun, this report looks at the transatlantic relationship and makes proposals to strengthen this partnership. i agreed on the need to strengthen eu-us cooperation, particularly in the areas of governance, human rights, security and energy, in order to adopt common strategies and to form a 'bloc' to maintain a strong presence on the international stage in the face of new emerging players such as china.
in writing. a broad partnership between the two sides of the atlantic is the guarantee of stronger growth and job creation, and that is why i support the conclusion of a free trade agreement, while ensuring that we do not destroy everything that makes up our identity, our specificity, and the standards that protect europeans today. but this partnership must also be political, and i support the proposals in this report, which calls for a common agenda of international objectives, or for the creation of a transatlantic political council. a genuinely strengthened cooperation will only be achieved through a strong and institutionalised dialogue.
in writing. the transatlantic relationship is based on very strong historical, political, economic and cultural links. it is important for the united states and the european union to strengthen their partnership and continue to work together. in many areas, such as global governance, human rights, international security and climate change, europeans and americans can further deepen their cooperation. however, the privileged relationship between the european union and the united states must be balanced. the recent scandal over the us prism spy programme reminds europe of the importance of being demanding in respect of its rights and independence. europe must above all defend its model of society and the interests of its citizens. the commission will have to be vigilant when it starts discussions with the us administration on a future trade and investment agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is about broadening europe's horizons, which will bring about interesting long-term economic benefits for the eu. the creation of a transatlantic political council will help to maintain the eu's privileged relationship with the united states and even to penetrate the asia-pacific region more deeply. the text will thus help our states to maintain a strong position on the world stage.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague josé millán mon at the plenary session on 13 june. this report focused on the eu's role in promoting a broader transatlantic partnership. a comprehensive trade and investment agreement would provide a major boost to the european and american economies. it would also revive the relationship between the european union and the united states. i therefore welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report.
in writing. on thursday i voted in favour of the enlarged transatlantic partnership. on the one hand, we have stressed the importance of bilateral relations between the european union and the united states. trade between the two partners is a source of growth and employment. moreover, these two actors have a common role to play in the fight against organised crime and terrorism at global level. we also want to extend this partnership to all the countries on the atlantic coast, including latin america, the caribbean and africa. with the development of globalisation, we believe that wider cooperation will open up new growth opportunities, exploiting the potential of these emerging trade networks.
in writing. the report calls on the us and the eu to explore 'the areas and frameworks' through which wider transatlantic cooperation could be conducted. while a trade agreement with the united states could be beneficial to the union, it is nevertheless necessary to protect european interests by excluding the audiovisual sector from the negotiating mandate.
in writing. the report proposes to further strengthen the eu-us transatlantic partnership and to integrate the southern shores of the atlantic in the form of 'triangular cooperation'. he grants blind satisfaction to the us, including less credible ones such as welcoming "president obama's renewed commitment to the fight against climate change". it welcomed the launch of negotiations on an eu-us free trade agreement and called for the eu's partnership with nato to be strengthened. this strategy of aligning itself with the united states and nato has put europe in a deplorable geopolitical impasse. the report, which advocates the creation of a common 'geopolitical model' based on the integration of the two largest market economies, expresses an aggressive western imperialism towards the rest of the world, and in particular towards china and russia. i vote against it.
in writing. france has had close relations with the united states since its independence. cooperation between our two countries is paramount and must remain so. it is therefore important for us today that the european union deepen and strengthen its partnership with the americans. the creation of a transatlantic political council would allow the two great powers to discuss and propose common solutions to important global problems. this partnership must also be extended to other states in order to increase its impact, in particular the countries of asia and the pacific. with this enhanced cooperation, key areas of the world today can be addressed, such as human rights, security and economic issues. the us and the eu have a big role to play in the world of tomorrow. but we must remain pragmatic: our discussions with the united states must be conducted on an equal footing. europe is sometimes too timid and too hesitant, and this is detrimental to the assertion of our principles.
in writing. the democratic future of mali depends on the outcome of the situation in the tuareg town of kidal. the presence of minusma could be a solution to avoid any further reprisals feared by the long-persecuted tuaregs and allow the peaceful conduct of the presidential elections at the end of july . we must also ensure that the corruption in the army, which has cast heavy suspicions on the first battalion of the malian army, supervised by the european union mission in mali, is eradicated, even though we must particularly welcome the training work carried out for several months by the french militia. i would also remind you that mali is the scene of the exploitation and massive recruitment of hundreds of children, mainly boys aged 12 to 15, by the various armed movements. and that in february 2013, 86% of the students still in the north were still denied access to education due to damage to schools. i would like to recall that the restoration of mali's territorial integrity and the political transition will also have to be accompanied by a new effort to promote economic and social development.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the reconstruction and democratization of mali. it extends the debates held regularly since the beginning of 2013, which highlighted a strong demand from parliament for the european union to support france's action in that country. in my speech in plenary the day before, i had said that the elections scheduled for this summer would not be enough to ensure stability in mali. it is important that the european union remains committed to maintaining peace in the region. the fight against terrorism involves a long-term effort which must be supported by the international community, particularly in the fields of education and social cohesion. the french socialist delegation welcomed the results of the donor conference, which raised eur 3.25 billion.
in writing. the security and humanitarian situation in mali remains a matter of concern. the european union must therefore not relax its commitment to all those involved in the reconstruction of the country. the eu should engage in broader thinking to develop a strategy for the security and development of the whole sahel region.
in writing. the malian conflict is a global conflict, affecting africa, europe and the rest of the world. the challenge today is to create the conditions for peace and security: the union must draw up a roadmap to ensure the transition to the restoration of the rule of law throughout the country through the organisation of democratic elections. these elections are not an end in themselves but a first step towards a process of national reconciliation. this first political step must be accompanied by a clear and sustainable development strategy that allows mali to provide the services essential to the well-being of its people - and thus to the stability of the country. we must also make progress on the economic front and ensure that the commitments made at the donors' conference are put into practice, with the malians, and provide effective development aid. the question of the malian army is also raised. the union must help the country to set up an army that respects the institutions and is able to protect all malians throughout the country. finally, europe must not let up its ambition to secure the sahel. this means that the two inseparable aspects of development and security must be better coordinated.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the reconstruction and democratisation of mali. the epp had drafted excellent amendments on this issue, which were mainly aimed at recalling the recent events in mali and to harden the language against the national movement for the liberation of azawad (mnla) which still holds the city of kidal and thus endangers the process of reconciliation between the different ethnic groups in mali. i am glad that this excellent parliamentary work has been adopted.
in writing. i supported the report on the reconstruction and democratization of mali. after the military intervention by france, it is essential that the union should embark on a project of development aid and peacekeeping support. parliament stressed the importance of democratisation, which is a prerequisite for stability in the sahel region. with this in mind, an eu election observation mission will be sent this summer to monitor the smooth running of the elections for the new government. the stakes are high, these elections represent the foundation of the future democratic society in mali. finally, we welcome the commitment of the international community to provide a total of eur 3.5 billion in financial assistance, which should allow for the full implementation of the 'strategies for security and development in the sahel' launched in march 2011.
in writing. the french intervention for the reconstruction and democratization of mali must be welcomed. mali is now in the process of political stabilisation. i welcome the establishment of a national dialogue and reconciliation commission. but the european union and the united nations must do more to support mali in this regard.
in writing. this resolution rightly notes that the resolution of mali's political and security problems is inseparable from its economic and social development. it is, however, unaware of the responsibility of the liberalization policies promoted by the imf and the european union in destabilizing the african economies in general and mali in particular. the reconstruction of a sound and just malian economy requires protection against the plundering of multinational firms and markets. although it favours the democratic way of elections to resolve the political crisis in mali, this resolution does not express itself in favour of a rapid and total withdrawal of french troops who have intervened without any real international legitimacy. i cannot support a resolution which welcomes such foreign military intervention. its extension jeopardises the return of full sovereignty of mali over its territory and affairs. i therefore abstain, noting the good intentions expressed in favour of reconstruction and democratisation but deploring the ineffectiveness of the military and trade liberalisation solutions supported by the eu in mali.
in writing. the occupation of northern mali by terrorist groups has led to numerous human rights violations: torture, extrajudicial executions, the imposition of sharia law, rapes... today, the malian president and his interim government have put in place a roadmap that organizes presidential and parliamentary elections starting in july. in addition, a commission for dialogue and reconciliation has been set up, which will bring the ethnic groups closer together and, in particular, put an end to the feeling of rejection that the tuareg feel. the resolution therefore falls within the european union's policy of providing financial support (donor conference for the revival of mali), humanitarian support (agir-sahel), military support (eutm mali) and political support. it is thanks to the efforts of the entire international community, ngos and civil society that democracy and the rule of law will be restored in mali, that human rights will be promoted and that terrorist groups will be repelled. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i abstained on this resolution taking a position on the reconstruction and democratization of mali. it is true that the latter is primarily concerned with the future of the country and has many positive aspects, such as the need to respond beyond security problems by a long-term commitment to tackle the problems of governance, development and humanitarian aid. the resolution also welcomes the replacement of french troops by un troops and the strengthening of misma, which is an undeniable step towards a lasting multilateral solution. however, the resolution also multiplies the appreciation not only to france for its intervention but also to the union for its 'major complementary training role which provides decisive assistance for the long-term capacity building of the malian army'. the positive aspects of this are yet to be demonstrated. so there's no way i'm contributing to this operation of self-gratification. so i decided not to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to support the establishment of an afghan state with democratic institutions, to guarantee the unity of the country, the territorial integrity and the prosperity of the afghan people. although considerable progress has been made in the last decade, international forces are now withdrawing and afghan troops will need to take over to provide security and a stable base to fully take care of themselves after the final withdrawal of international troops in 2014.
in writing. i am particularly committed to the issue of our cooperation with afghanistan, particularly on the issue of women's rights. i am very hopeful that we will soon be able to conclude a partnership and development agreement which will be beneficial to all the partners concerned. the european union's support is crucial to helping stabilise and strengthen a strong and democratic afghan state.
in writing. i supported the joint motion for a resolution on the partnership and cooperation agreement with afghanistan. i opposed the four amendments tabled by the gue/ngl, which had the effect of distorting the text.
in writing. i abstained on this joint resolution because my group which did not co-sign it believes that we need to be more critical of the european engagement in afghanistan. many vital issues were not addressed by this resolution, especially the fate of afghan civilians after 2014, especially women, who collaborated with ngos and international forces. we know that the prospect of western withdrawal raises serious fears of a return of the taliban. in such a context, a system of reception and/or protection for such persons must be put in place as from now. the european union has a responsibility to those who have supported it in the implementation of its programmes and projects since 2001. we cannot abandon these afghans, it is these men and women that afghanistan must rely on to rebuild itself.
in writing. while more than 90% of heroin in europe comes from afghanistan, opium production in afghanistan is a major social, economic and security problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat drug abuse, including support for alternative income for farmers. it is also important to recall our continued support for the establishment of stronger democratic institutions but also our concern about the continuing violence in the country.
in writing. this resolution does not say a word about the withdrawal of foreign troops from afghanistan. the word war does not even appear in the text and the socio-economic effects of the conflict are therefore totally ignored. the few words written about the situation of women or corruption are largely euphemistic and no comprehensive solution is thought to bring the country out of the economic, political and social crisis in which it finds itself. the afghan problem will not be solved by rhetoric: european action on the country must be completely re-examined. i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on the partnership and development cooperation agreement which the eu is about to sign with afghanistan. the commission welcomes the efforts and progress made over the past 10 years by afghanistan, the eu's financial contribution to the reconstruction and development of afghanistan since 2002 and remains committed to the peaceful transition of the country and its comprehensive and sustainable development. the least we can say is that these results on the ground have yet to be demonstrated. neither i nor my group forgets that almost 12 years of war and international engagement have not eliminated the taliban insurgency or brought peace and stability to the country, quite the contrary. we do not forget that the occupation of the coalition forces has led to the destruction of the country, with poverty levels and living conditions of the afghan population now worse than before the military occupation. finally, we should not forget that the eu's policy towards afghanistan has been mainly to align itself with the strategic objectives of the united states. that is why i opposed this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which suggests a framework for the millennium development goals beyond 2015. the millennium development goals were adopted in 2000 with the aim of meeting certain targets in terms of poverty reduction, access to water and access to education by 2015. the un must define a new framework for action in 2013, a process in which the eu will have to be involved by adopting a coordinated position.
in writing. i have approved this report, which shows both the progress made and the enormous work that remains to be done. the union is now the largest donor of aid and has shown a consistent commitment to the achievement of the millennium development goals. between 2004 and 2009, nine million children were able to access primary school and 32 million men were able to access safe drinking water. the target of halving extreme poverty has been achieved and infant mortality has decreased. however, we must not rest on these results: progress is significant, but the scale of the task to be accomplished remains enormous. the current targets do not sufficiently address the root causes of poverty or environmental damage. millions of people are still hungry or at risk of becoming so. the union has committed itself to allocating 0.7% of gross national income to official development assistance by 2015. this commitment must be respected, and it is the minimum. this is the essential role of this report: to be a call to action in the face of indifference. in this spirit, i have co-signed with charles goerens and many other members of parliament from all political parties an appeal to our governments to respect our development commitments.
in writing. adopted by the united nations in 2000, the millennium declaration sets out goals to be achieved by 2015. what can we take stock of in 2013? the target of halving the number of people without reliable access to improved drinking water sources has been achieved, as has the target of halving extreme poverty. while improvements have been made in reducing infant mortality and access to primary education, this should not be a distraction from the fact that millions of people around the world still suffer from poverty, hunger, exclusion and insecurity. it is because the european union has a decisive role to play in this debate that it was necessary to adopt a coordinated position with that of the other european institutions, in view of the united nations conference on the millennium development goals. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the millennium development goals, which list the new challenges ahead, such as poverty eradication, good governance, environmental sustainability and the eu's position on the future development framework for developing countries. i agreed with the need to provide access to health care in developing countries, especially for women and vulnerable people.
in writing. the millennium development goals are for 2015, and although immense progress has already been made, we are still far from having met all our goals. the european union must continue to affirm its strong commitment to development and better coordinate its action with that of its member states: making our action clearer is necessary if we want it to be understood and supported by all. i support the idea that special attention should be paid to the role of women in development, and i am committed to this issue.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague filip kaczmarek at the plenary session on 13 june. this report focused on the definition of the post-2015 framework in the context of the objectives adopted by the united nations in the millennium declaration in september 2000. many of the goals have been achieved, including halving extreme poverty, or halving the number of people without reliable access to improved drinking water sources. however, much remains to be done. the report wisely targets progress beyond 2015. it will enable the european union to engage in this debate with a coordinated position. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. on thursday, i voted in favour of the parliament's report on the millennium development goals (mdgs). launched by the united nations in 2000, the mdgs are concrete targets to be achieved by 2015, such as halving extreme poverty or halving the number of people without reliable access to safe drinking water. the house also welcomed the fact that the eu had already taken action to combat poverty in the region, and called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's policies are consistent with the eu's commitments. in this context, we have emphasised the principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and coherence of development policies. in order to have an impact on the post-2015 negotiations, it is essential that the union adopt a coordinated and coherent position.
in writing. the current rate of child marriage is worrying: if it continues, about 140 million girls will become child wives by 2020. the post-2015 mdg framework should include measures to address all forms of violence against women and girls, such as harassment, rape and sexual abuse, prostitution, slavery, exploitation, murder, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, domestic violence. we also wanted to reiterate our commitment to eradicating poverty, improving access to health and education, and fighting malnutrition.
in writing. the report rightly recalls that poverty eradication is part of the millennium development goals for 2015. strangely enough, he says nothing about the growing poverty in the european union. with 24% of people living in poverty and 9% living in extreme poverty according to the latest eurostat figures for 2011, and knowing that the situation has only gotten worse since then, the european union is backsliding on the goals it says it sets for the world in this text. worse, eu policy is directly responsible for the spread of poverty in europe and where it constrains its partners. i am voting against to support the objective and to denounce the hypocrisy of the text.
in writing. while the millennium development goals (mdgs) expire in 2015, this report underlines that poverty eradication must remain the priority of the post-2015 development agenda. it also stressed the importance of respecting the principle of coherence of the european union's development policies. the report also stresses the need to meet the commitments made by member states to allocate 0.7% of their gni to official development assistance by 2015, a target that is far from being met in the vast majority of european countries. i believe it is essential to remind states of their commitments to global solidarity and to stress the many steps still to be taken in the fight against poverty. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. the united nations has set eight millennium development goals. on a first look, we see that the millennium development goals are a success for developing and middle-income countries. on the other hand, it appears that inequalities continue to grow between the states. in the wake of an unprecedented economic crisis, a redefinition of geopolitical actors, natural disasters (japan), crises in syria and mali, the european union must redefine objectives to adapt them to these changes in order to achieve the objectives set. the millennium development goals are part of the policy of the european union and the european parliament. i voted in favour of a resolution with clear objectives in terms of human rights and the promotion of freedoms. i therefore voted in favour of sexual and reproductive rights, which i regard as fundamental women's rights, in accordance with the guidelines of the french delegation to the epp. i am proud to support this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on on the the millennium development goals. the drastic budget cuts have made it impossible to achieve the eight goals set for 2015. despite progress, 1.2 billion people worldwide still live in extreme poverty. the text reminds member states that they must honour their commitments and devote 0.7% of their gross national income to official development assistance. we must at some point decide to take account of the realities of the world and ensure that the fight against hunger, poverty and the promotion of human rights and equality do not remain mere speeches for the countries that remain the richest on the planet. i am therefore pleased that the amendments tabled by my colleague, mr mikael gustafsson, on gender equality have been adopted. however, i remain sceptical about the association of the private sector with the mdgs as a "development partner". this text, adopted by a large majority, should not remain a declaration of good intentions but a strong signal to the member states and the commission, which will shortly adopt a communication on the millennium development goals.
author. - mr president, since the collapse of the soviet bloc, the least that can be said is that russia has had difficulty finding the path to democracy, with its ups and downs. since mr. putin's return to the kremlin, not only have things not improved, they have regressed. the ngo reports are overwhelming. so, as our resolution says, there can be doubts about the functioning of the judicial institutions in russia and the magnitsky case is just one sad example among many. the word "doubts", by the way, is weak because, for my part, i have no doubts. russia is one of the most corrupt countries in the world, ranking 133 out of 176 according to transparency international. one of the countries with the highest number of violations of freedom of expression: 148th out of 179 according to the reporters without borders report. one of the countries where human rights defenders are most wanted and a real repressive puzzle is being set up against them. the law requiring associations that receive funds from abroad to register with a register of foreign agents is just one of many examples. this is nothing more than vladimir putin's response to the role of these ngos in the protest movements that took place during the last elections. the vocabulary used is reminiscent of the sad memories of the stalinist period. the memorial association, winner of the 2009 sakharov prize, is one of the regime's usual victims. and let us not forget the sad fate of critical journalists, whose courage is to be commended. russia is one of those countries which combine the authoritarianism of the old eastern countries with the worst excesses of unbridled and corrupt ultra-liberalism. therefore, i have only one question. a summit between the european union and russia was held in early june. what is your assessment of democracy and human rights? what is the eu-russia partnership doing in this area?
author. - mr president, it is curious that mr cabrnoch should say that he is not the author of the resolution and that his group has listed him as the author, but i shall not waste my time on such details. a year ago, hundreds of people took to the streets of baku to demand democratic reforms. the government responded with a wave of repression. he has jailed activists and supporters of the opposition who were behind these protests. the harassment of civil society organisations and the media, which had become their mouthpieces, intensified. as a candidate in the october 2013 presidential election against autocratic president aliyev, ilgar mammadov is thus only the latest example of such political arrests. while we rightly protest against police violence in turkey, we must not forget that two months ago the azerbaijani authorities also used tear gas, water cannons and rubber bullets to disperse peaceful demonstrators. this is the fifth time we have looked at the situation in azerbaijan since 2009. we have had partnership relations with this country since 1999. it is a member of the eastern partnership of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and we are negotiating an association agreement with it at the moment - you are negotiating, by the way. what is the outcome of this partnership? how much pressure are we putting on the government to finally bring democracy to this country? what are our requirements? are we finally learning from the mistakes of the past? the same type of negotiations on an association agreement were under way with ben ali's tunisia. the negotiations on an association agreement with that country no longer make sense. mr. lewandowski, please answer the question!
the question is "blue cardboard". i do not know whether this is a "blue card" or a personal fact. i was merely reacting to the comments made by our colleague who was surprised to be listed as the author. if he is listed as the author, it is not the services of this house and his colleagues that he should be attacking but his political group. that's all i said. as for the diversity of political groups, look and sweep outside your door before you attack other political groups. let's respect each other and we'll all be better off together.
author. - mr president, on 11 june the un special rapporteur on burma stated that the human rights violations committed against the rohingya in rakhine state are systematic and widespread and that the perpetrators of the crimes continue to enjoy total impunity. at the last plenary session here, our parliament decided to reinstate burma unconditionally in the generalized system of preferences. the generalized tariff preference system is part of the european union's common commercial policy, but we must ensure that our commercial policy is consistent with the charter of fundamental rights. article 15 of the gsp regulation therefore provides that the benefit of the preferential scheme may be suspended for serious and systematic violations of fundamental rights, where the facts are documented by competent supervisory bodies. in view of the explicit statement of the un special rapporteur and also of the many reports of international ngos documenting the crimes committed against the rohingya, we ask the european commission to temporarily withdraw the benefit of the preferential regime from burma. the political message from europe will thus be clear: the tragedy of the rohingya must end. the rohingya must have access to citizenship and enjoy the same rights as all burmese citizens.
author. - mr president, as the un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in myanmar has just pointed out, the murder of three rohingya women who were taking part in a peaceful demonstration last week is the latest example of the plight of this minority, which the un considers to be the most persecuted in the world. humanitarian indicators - access to water, health, food, education - are at their lowest. the rohingya, who number about 800,000, do not exist in the eyes of the burmese government. an april 2013 report by human rights watch even mentions ethnic cleansing. the rohingya are persecuted by the government, security forces and local authorities, including religious authorities. the whole burmese political class bears its share of responsibility. indeed, the national league for democracy aung san suu kyi's party is doing little better and is at best silent. some of its local branches even support, for example, the rohingya birth control security measures in a mixture of low electoral consideration and real racism. more than 130,000 displaced people now live without food, shelter, and access to basic health care, and thousands of them die every year from treatable diseases. and when they try to flee to thailand and bangladesh, they are turned back or face mind-boggling conditions in detention. this systematic persecution, wherever they go, reminds me of the persecution of the roma in our part of the world. other ethnic minorities, such as the kachins and the karens, have also suffered persecution. yes, we lifted economic sanctions last month and re-established the benefit of generalized tariff preferences. i regret that, because the burmese government is remarkably good at using western interests. the european union's defence of human rights is unfortunately not doing very well. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i don't know if ms. aung san suu kyi protested against this. what i do know is that she is silent on the whole persecution of the rohingya and that her party, representatives of her party, are participating in the persecution of the rohingya. and, unfortunately, the party of mrs. aung san suu kyi is very silent and again, the word is weak on the issue of the persecution of this most persecuted people in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we can all agree that you said it here at the beginning: the situation in egypt is very dangerous. and if you read the military's ultimatum correctly, you can imagine what will happen if the situation is not resolved within 48 hours. that is why i think we should discuss this publicly and adopt a resolution. i think that the situation in egypt is such that this parliament must be able to adopt a resolution to make clear the parliament's view in the light of what is happening in cairo and other cities. that is why i ask that the partisan bickering that has started here again be stopped. mr weber, did you see how we voted? thank you so much for saying thank you. you're not thinking about that! so i am in favour of the debate plus a resolution with the support of the ppe and the socialists and the liberals and the communists, for whom we will get a large majority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i proposed a debate with a resolution. so we voted for a debate with resolution. it is obvious that the resolution will also deal with specific cases which should have been dealt with in the emergency resolution. so in the resolution on egypt, we will talk about the situation in egypt. this is one resolution. in a resolution, there are, for example, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4, and in paragraph 5 or 6 we will deal with exactly the cases that were to be dealt with in the emergency resolution. so in this resolution, we deal with all the problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rules of procedure state that when there is a debate there must be no urgency. that settles it. i just wanted to give you a piece of advice so you wouldn't have to come in the morning with it.
mr president, even if this report only deals with the consequences of evil, it is a step in the right direction. finally, it is recognized that social dumping on the seas exists and that it is a factor of considerable danger to men, to maritime safety and to the future of our planet. how many human and environmental disasters, how many catastrophic floods could have been avoided if we had seriously fought against dumping, which is one of the weapons of ultra-liberal globalisation! the measures recommended in this report are sound. the union and the member states still need to affirm and apply all the same standards, recruit and train the necessary number of inspectors, if these measures are not to remain a dead letter of the measures advocated, which will run counter to the policies of massive reduction in public expenditure imposed by the commission and the council. we will also have to deal very soon with the question of the flags of complacency, which are one of the cancers of our union, as well as tax havens.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, yes, the number of road accident victims must be taken seriously. yes, all european countries must act together to save the lives of many innocent people. if education is to be used to educate people about the consequences of their actions in terms of driving, the safety of all vehicles, but in particular commercial vehicles on the roads of the union, must be improved. technical control is an important tool to contribute to this improvement. it is urgent that the rules should be the same in all the member states. it is urgent to put an end to the bogus checks. with the services directive, which has encouraged all social dumping, we are allowing genuine flags of complacency in road transport, with the danger this represents for the employees themselves, for road users, for the population. the improvement of road safety also requires the maintenance of road infrastructure, which is increasingly poorly maintained and accident-prone as a result of the austerity policies imposed by the union. finally, europe must be aware that, as a result of the impoverishment of its population, it is the poorest workers who are pushed farthest from their workplace, where there is no public transport. they have little money, and they often have old cars. increasing the purchasing power of employees can therefore be one of the ways of combating road safety and of reviving car production in europe.
mr president, the proposals for legislation we are discussing are supposedly intended to contribute to road safety and environmental protection. they want to strengthen the content, frequency and scope of technical inspections. the problem is that the commission's substantive arguments for its intervention do not hold up in the face of the statistics. the causal link between accidents and technical failures of vehicles is marginal. the commission has not yet established the exact relationship between the two types of vehicle. these studies are not only oriented but also refuted by other independent studies. we have been subjected to intense lobbying by companies who are looking for the financial windfall of frequent and mandatory checks, and a bulimic technocracy of pointless and pointless regulations backed by even more rabid rapporteurs. the first victims are the most modest european citizens, those who drive old vehicles because they cannot afford to change them. the french national assembly and senate considered that these texts were contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. it is very curious that the regulation is being used and not simply the directive.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a proposal for a european commission regulation which aims to update the technical requirements of the 2009 directive on the technical inspection of motor vehicles and extends its scope to two-wheelers. i shall now turn to the last point, namely the extension of the scope of application to two wheels. so in the debate we heard some members compare motorcycles and cars, but it is not comparable. a motorcyclist takes much better care of his motorcycle than a car owner. so we need to look at the connection between the victims, the accidents and the motorcycle's mechanical condition. it is clear that out of what i believe to be seven reports, two are from the administrations, which are more or less independent, and three from dekra, which is a major player on the market. however, the motorcyclists have told us, throughout this debate, that the commission's figure that 8% of accidents are related to the mechanical condition of the vehicle was wrong; our insurers tell us it's less than 1%. that is the point we would like to see clarified, commissioner. that is why i support and welcome the work done by my colleague michel dantin in the committee. we would like to see this clarified so that we do not legislate on the basis of data which are false. the accident statistics need to be refined, and we'll probably find that there's a problem with mopeds and mopeds, but not so much with motorcycles. we need to train the bikers, make them wear gloves, boots, jackets. there is also the problem of the quality of the road networks, and if we have deaths among motorcyclists it is because there are accidents, but these are not linked, in the proportions that the commission claims, to the mechanical condition of the vehicles. so it takes a little time. you know that all governments are opposed to this regulation. so the wisdom of mr kuhn's compromise is the right decision that this parliament should make.
mr president, commissioner, i should first like to thank our rapporteur for the work he has done on the technical inspection. we're at the beginning of the tourist season. a large flow of vehicles will thus cross the whole of europe. i come from one of those regions which is a tourist destination, and i want to bring here the testimony of both the security forces and the automobile industry to say that we need, commissioner, a strengthening and harmonization of technical control. too many vehicles are in a deplorable state, and it is too difficult for the security forces today to read the inspection documents of a third country. it is also a question of training the staff, whether it is the staff who carry out the checks or the people who carry out the technical checks in companies which must be independent. on the matter of motorcycles, i want to join with what our colleague audy said. most motorcycle accidents occur in april and may, mainly due to under inflation of tires. this is not a technical problem and the check in this respect can only be carried out before the vehicle is put into service. we don't have the ability to check every motorcycle in march. so it's not realistic.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz, mr president of the council, mr herman van rompuy, mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel barroso, ladies and gentlemen, before commenting on the conclusions of last week's council, i would first like to welcome the irish presidency which is coming to an end, and to thank prime minister enda kenny and his team for the work they have done. but i would also like to commend the work, the attentiveness and the presence of lucinda creighton, who, during the six months, did not miss a single meeting of parliament. i think that needs to be emphasized. it's probably because she's a woman, that she's loyal and that she's been loyal to the post and, most importantly, to the level of listening. but i have to say it, dany, because you know, the benches are often empty, whether it's here this morning or on the other side. i think we should lift it. over the past six months, 80 legislative commitments have been completed. there is of course the completion of major dossiers, such as the common agricultural policy. we also reached agreement on the horizon 2020 package for innovation, research and development. it's a key element in helping our businesses grow. and, most importantly, we have reached agreement on the multiannual financial framework. the intensive work of the negotiators on both sides has made this agreement possible and i would like to congratulate them here again. this work was vital. we in parliament, as a co-legislator, were committed to our responsibility. we have set common-sense conditions for any agreement. we could not accept dragging the european union down the slippery slope of debt. hence our demand to find a solution to the missing 2013 appropriations. and before we vote definitively in september, mr president, we must ensure that the 2013 budget and the missing millions are secured. we could not accept a limited budget without finding a solution to optimize our investments. a more flexible budget was needed to allocate each unspent euro to the policies that need it most, hence the flexibility to use the unused margins. we could not be satisfied with an austerity budget for seven years. europe must be able to react quickly to the changes facing our continent. hence the clause for revision so that in 2016 the next parliament will have a say in the matter. and it was no longer possible to allow such a bargain every seven years to satisfy the selfish interests of some. europe is not a sum of discounts. europe is worth more than that. that is why i am asking the council, the new commission and the next parliament to work immediately, at the beginning of next year, after the elections, on a real budget with real own resources and i am asking that the areas in which europe is more efficient than the member states be defined, and vice versa. we must take this matter to heart right now. we're sick of this bargaining. we have now had 60 years of europe; i believe we have a duty to put everything back on the table, really everything, and to redefine what europe does and what the individual member states do. last week at the european council we focused on youth unemployment. but without our common policies financed by a credible mff, we would still be talking about this scourge rather than acting. i know it is only for a few years, but i hope that if those few years work, the wisdom will allow us to continue this effort. we are all concerned about unemployment in europe, especially among young people. one in four young people is unemployed and in some countries this figure is as high as 50% or even 70% of the working population. we are supporting growth and employment through our funds and the funds devoted to structural policies, and therefore through investment in our regions. with the extra billion euros added at the last minute to the fund for the most deprived, europe shows that it also has a heart for those who suffer the most. with the additional funds for erasmus, smes and research projects, we are giving more resources to the fight against unemployment. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. and to provide more training, more skills, better language learning, more mobility, thanks to the additional 10 billion euros granted to the eib, europe is also helping to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. they are the melting pot of innovation but do not always have the money to finance themselves, and above all they face prohibitive rates in the countries that are most in crisis. ten billion euros that can generate five times that, that's almost our annual budget, just for small and medium-sized businesses, but it's a sound investment because small and medium-sized businesses don't relocate. without this council, and with an agreement on the cfp, these decisions would have been meaningless. we all had to show responsibility, that of giving ourselves the means to act. i would like to thank once again those who have had this european vision, and i would also like to thank the irish presidency for that.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr farage, just one question. for croatia, the croatian people have chosen by referendum. so he freely chose to join. i believe that democracy and referendums must also be respected. the second question, simply. what is your status as a member of parliament? are you paid in european money or british money? (intervention by guy verhofstadt, off the record)
mr president, mr herman van rompuy, i understand that when the european council, with the support of some governments, listens to the european parliament, things get better. this was the case with the priority for youth employment, and in particular the question of how the 6 billion could be used in advance and rebuilt after 2015. this was also the case when you increased the level of the european fund for the most deprived to 3.5 billion. but for the rest, mr president, if the european council is consistent, if it really wants to make youth employment a priority, then other issues must be dealt with. and when i see how you always refer to structural reforms, without questioning the impact of austerity measures and the results we have seen in the countries where they have been implemented in a disciplined way, there is a deadlock that you refuse to see. there is also the belief, mr president, that the return to employment will not take place in the peripheral countries unless you solve the question of banking union, but here, as early as december 2012, you had an agreement in principle for the banking union, and we don't see much progress. what have you done, mr barroso, with the growth pact in the past year? why is it that, a year later, we are told again that there is agreement on a growth pact? where are the results of implementation for which you are responsible in order to mobilise these billions for growth and employment?
mr president, you should change the statement, it is not catch the eye, it is catch the list.
uachtarán-in-oifig sa chomhairle. − a uachtaráin, cuireann sé áthas ormsa a bheith libh an mhaidin seo chun cuntas a thabhairt do pharlaimint na heorpa ar uachtaránacht na heorpa a bhí ag éirinn le sé mhí anuas. of the european parliament, president of the european commission, distinguished leaders of the political groups and members of the european parliament, as taoiseach, i am very pleased to speak here at the european parliament this morning in this review of the irish presidency and the mff. ireland’s seventh presidency of the council concluded on sunday. it was a hectic final week, ending an extraordinarily busy and productive six months. through the support and partnership of the european parliament, ireland’s presidency did achieve very significant results. i want to thank you, the members of the parliament, for your confidence and your commitment as we discharged our presidential duties. when i last addressed this parliament it was to mark a new presidency in a new year. i spoke of what we intended to do and of the urgent need to get results. today i am proud to say in this parliament that we have achieved those. six months ago, i set out on behalf of our presidency our objectives based on the three pillars of stability, of jobs and of growth. we set out to make good on our commitments, in particular those made at the highest level of the european council. we could do no less since at this difficult juncture it was imperative that our citizens and the markets would see clear evidence that our union could and would follow through on commitments made and entered into. such follow-through has been the hallmark of the irish presidency. i believe that what we have achieved in that regard has bolstered the credibility of the european union, its role and its work in the eyes of our people and of our citizens. since we assumed the presidency after a particularly torrid period, achieving and sustaining stability was an obvious and a key objective and goal. banking union was of critical importance. we needed to repair, to restructure and to renovate our banks to do two vital things. firstly to generate sustainable economic growth and secondly to prove to our citizens they could depend on us to do what we said we would do at the meeting of heads of state and government and that was to sever the link between banks and sovereigns. the follow-through achieved in the irish presidency was seen in three further developments. firstly, the new single supervisor; secondly, stronger capital rules for banks; and, thirdly, just last week, in agreeing new rules for the winding-down of banks. these new bank resolution rules will protect taxpayers from having to bail out banks again in the future. equally in our presidency, we also worked to put in place positive drivers for growth and job creation right across europe and, when it comes to those all-important jobs and sustaining our families and our communities, trade is absolutely crucial and fundamental. therefore we concentrated on securing agreement on the mandate for negotiations for the eu-us trade talks. such agreement is essential to what should be a game-changing transatlantic partnership – one based on an equal and open relationship, and in the current circumstances i hope that that can be proven to apply. this will allow us to turn the enormous potential for jobs and growth into reality. you know that small and medium enterprises are the lifeblood of job creation, so we made europe’s small businesses a priority every step of the way. for example, we managed to achieve the political agreement that will make it easier for our small and medium enterprises to access the two trillion euro public procurement market of the european union through a simpler and cheaper bid process and with this everybody wins: more bids, governments get better value for money; our small businesses can really compete and expand and that means jobs in your countries for your citizens. research and development is something that this parliament holds very dear. the eur 70 billion horizon 2020 programme agreed in principle last week is crucial in terms of research and development. the proportion of such funds taken up by small and medium enterprises should go up by one third. but we could have done little or none of this without the close cooperation of the institutions. securing agreement with the european parliament on the eu’s common agricultural policy for the next seven years has been one of the more important achievements of this presidency. it will greatly enhance our efforts to transform our agriculture and fisheries industries into sustainable, green sectors for growth and jobs in the future. i welcome the parliament’s strong support for the eur 16 billion erasmus+ programme. like many here, i have read and understand the theories of umberto eco. we believe that it is indeed our culture and not war that cements our amazing 70-year peace. i am especially happy with work done on the european globalisation adjustment fund. this will provide real support for an important sector of our society, namely our redundant workers. can any politician here be happy with a situation where 26 million people are unemployed across the european union? i know you are not happy with that; nobody can be and this is a small but important help in that direction. we, as politicians, can never underestimate the layers or the depth of trauma and despair and disappointment of a hard worker being made redundant in any of your countries. throughout our presidency we retained and maintained a strong focus on all those important high-potential sectors, like the digital sector. equally, we made major progress on data protection and on e-identification legislation. both of which i know are central to your own parliamentary agenda here. we made headway too on issues like the european protection order, on access to lawyers in criminal proceedings and on insolvency. we concluded, successfully, the historic negotiations that will allow this union to accede to the european convention on human rights, extending the same standards of protection to our citizens in their dealings with the european union institutions as when dealing with their own governments. we have also shown significant leadership in the area of csdp (capability development, maritime surveillance and cyber security) and in addition we have laid the initial groundwork for the thematic discussion on defence at the december european council. but there has been one signal issue of ireland’s presidency, and that was our absolute commitment to ending, insofar as is possible, the blight of youth unemployment. it is an abomination against our young men and our young women, too many of whom have reached working age and have yet to know what it feels like to get up and have a job to go to every day; who have yet to realise the sense of purpose and pride and dignity of a job well done and being well done. our union has to be 100% sure that we will not allow unemployment to lock our young men and women out of their futures, out of the happy and successful lives that they could and should have with this initiative and that they could now be living. i am heartened then that in just the second month of our presidency we managed to secure the commitment of all the member states to the youth guarantee. when implemented effectively, this will give young people under the age of 25 the opportunity and the chance of training or a new job within four months of their becoming unemployed. it is clear to all of us that to tackle the scourge of unemployment among young people we must press ahead with adapting our education and training systems to 21st century norms, including partnerships with employers. to boost employment and employability we have taken important decisions on cross-border mobility, including a stronger eures job-search facility. presidency agreements on the expanded erasmus+ programme and on professional qualifications recognition will make an important contribution to this area, as indeed will agreement with parliament on the proposal on portability of pension rights. in all of this, and in particular in front-loading for the youth guarantee, we worked with you, mr president, and your parliament. everybody knows there was one other fundamental issue here and that was the mff – the multiannual financial framework – and the budget. our work on the mff has underpinned so much of our presidency endeavours and achievements. it was just last thursday in brussels that president schulz and the presidency, along with president barroso of the commission, reached a long and eagerly-awaited agreement on the multiannual financial framework. as a parliament you vote on this agreement and resolution tomorrow. you cast your vote on a complex series of texts dealing with important technical and financial matters that affect every citizen in our union. you know that the negotiations to this point were long, were difficult, were highly sensitive for both the council and parliament and indeed the commission. the results identified the best way to ensure that the almost eur 1 trillion for the mff is released as soon as possible into the real economy. i might say, mr president, that from the outset you made it clear – you made it very clear – that the priorities for this parliament were the arrangements for flexibility, for review, for revision, for own resources and for the unity of the budget. in many ways, those priorities shaped the agenda for subsequent negotiation. the parliament’s insistence on greater flexibility in how we manage our resources was a very significant step forward and i welcome that. this will help to ensure that we get the maximum out of a budget at a time when every single euro counts. but there were times when the council and parliament differed sharply: times when it was very difficult to make any progress on the negotiations; times when there was frustration, deep frustration, and deep disappointment on both sides. we refused to be daunted or to remain divided on the issues and we built on the sense of trust which is very important for this parliament and in political negotiations; we built on that sense of trust between the commission, the parliament and the presidency and on those relationships that we had developed. we did not give up on this. we kept at it and because we did, we got there with you and now the detail of what we did agree is before the members of the european parliament. i want to say here that we did listen to this parliament. we did listen to the membership of the parliament and, by listening actively, i believe we did manage to address the main issues of concern which were identified by you, the members, in the resolution of 13 march. as in all good negotiations, the outcome struck a balance. not everyone in the council was happy; let me assure you of that. let me assure you that it is something of an under-statement to say so. but indeed not everyone in parliament is 100% satisfied either. i am happy to say today here that it was parliament that championed many of the important measures. not least of which was jumpstarting the research and innovation resources earlier than planned; the flexibility you introduced allows us to advance more money for youth unemployment; you worked to ensure that aid for the most deprived people stays at current levels and is not reduced – which we support. no one institution has a monopoly of wisdom and the parliament has made the mff a better instrument. the signal that we now send to our struggling peoples, our struggling businesses and especially to our young men and young women, is that, yes, europe is capable of rising to meet the challenge; that europe is and has proven to be competent and it is a union that is worthy of their trust and it is a union that is deserving of their confidence because it can, it does and it will make its decisions when it focuses with a sense of conviction and belief and trust among leaders. today, 500 million members of the european family face what are, for all of us, unprecedented challenges in our economies and in our society. the mff is the single, biggest investment tool we have at our disposal and we need to come together and use it forthwith and immediately. at the new year, i described the parliament as our partner on our six-month presidency journey and at the height of this summer we can look back and say ‘what a journey we have had’. we have invested considerable time and effort in growing and tending to that relationship. from the outset, we worked closely and intensively with you – in fact, since long before our presidency started – the long hours of negotiations at all levels and across the full spectrum of the union’s work was in our sights. i believe, mr president, that we have respected the role of this parliament, your parliament and of its mandate. that respect has been a characteristic of the irish presidency. as we say in ireland: give respect, get respect. equally we have done our best to represent and to always faithfully fulfil the role and the mandate of the council. we have come to know each other better and to be more familiar with each other and to value each other’s perspectives. i want to pay tribute to my deputy leader, an tánaiste, and particularly our minister for european affairs here, minister creighton – now well known to you all in this parliament; she has been a regular attender here in this chamber representing the council and listening to the many diverse views of your members. i want to thank you, minister, for your invaluable contribution in bringing the mff to a conclusion. (applause)yes, for all of us – the presidency, the parliament and the council – the work has been challenging, the work has been daunting but, individually and especially as a team, we have been equal to that challenge because we are strengthened and we are uplifted in what is our common cause: our proud people and their proud and prosperous and peaceful future. as you know, managing a presidency places very considerable demands on any administration and this is particularly so in the case of smaller countries like ireland. as my government first came to office over two years ago we began to plan for this presidency. we believed a country making a journey in difficult waters to recovery would be well placed to lead a union committed to that same destination and i believe that we were right. our presidency has been good for our country; good for ireland and i hope it has been good for the union, and very good for our urgent agenda of stability, of jobs and of growth. today i am proud to say to this parliament that i am, as the saying goes, very deeply european. i believe in the idea of europe as our home and because i do i believe, as europeans, we do ourselves an injustice by failing to marvel at what we have made – and above all what we have made together – from the wreckage of war and of atrocity and of chaos. lithuania, a new and an old european, has now assumed the presidency. i am drawn indeed to the words of the man who called himself the last citizen of the grand duchy of lithuania, the nobel laureate who was perhaps best known as a polish writer. i refer, of course, to czesław miłosz, so beloved of our own nobel laureate in ireland, seamus heaney. miłosz wrote: ‘undoubtedly, i would call europe my home. but it was a home that refused to acknowledge itself as a whole. instead, as if on the strength of some self-imposed taboo, it classified its population into two categories members of the family (quarrelsome but respectable) and poor relations.’ today we europeans are what we must strive to be, very much a whole and very much a one family. our shared identity exists beyond the realms of mere economics or currency or money. it is in our literature, in our music, in our culture and above all in our people, for we are the early generations lucky enough to be, not merely europeans, but european. in ireland we have an old saying that a wound heals from the margins in. i hope that what we have achieved at the western margins will bring a new healing with it and a new hope and a new prosperity to our european people, to our european home. indeed, one where there is always room for god’s goodness, for human kindness, for dignity and for joy. (loud applause)
president of the european commission. − mr president, let me first thank the taoiseach, enda kenny, for his excellent cooperation during this council presidency and very sincerely congratulate him on the impressive work and results. let me add a special thanks to the tánaiste eamon gilmore and the europe minister lucinda creighton and to all their political colleagues and civil servants for their dedication and their competence, which made this a focused and very successful council presidency. the core priorities over the last months were clearly set out at the start of the irish presidency and carefully maintained thereafter: stability, growth and jobs. we have made further progress in updating the european union’s architecture to the pressures of the 21st century economy, showing that we are learning lessons from the crisis. some of the main deliverables of the past months were in the field of financial services, where political agreements were found between co-legislators on two cornerstones of the banking union: the single supervisory mechanism and the capital requirements directive and regulation. a general approach was also agreed in council on bank resolution and recovery, on the directive and regulation on markets and financial instruments and on packaged retail investment products. a political agreement at second reading on deposit-guarantee schemes still needs to be found. indeed there has been a standstill for one and a half years. on the economic governance front, the two-pack has entered into force. the european semester method is gaining strength and we have started a debate on ex-ante coordination of major economic reforms and on the convergence and competitiveness instrument, which is the way forward to guaranteeing the responsibility of and solidarity between member states in the future. let me especially thank the irish presidency for the support given to the consolidation of the european semester. as i said in the previous debate and i will not repeat myself, now we have a much more structured and credible exercise of collective economic governance in the european union. we also made clear in the previous debate that we have made progress on measures which can help create more growth and jobs directly. today we can say that youth employment is at the top of the priorities for european union action and of course the irish presidency made certainly a very important contribution towards this. following the commission initiative, the recommendation on the european youth guarantee was adopted earlier this year. this is one of the main elements in breaking the cycle of youth unemployment. with the preparations during the past months and the decisions taken just last week we are ensuring that we will meet that challenge together. now the key is implementation. let us be under no illusions about what european-level action can do. much has to be done at national level but we have now the political momentum to make this a reality: the success of the fight against youth unemployment. during the irish presidency we also launched negotiations on a free-trade agreement with japan, and we now have a mandate to start negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states. both negotiations will be difficult and sensitive, but the potential benefits of ambitious deals would be unprecedented. ireland clearly understands the importance of the boost these deals can bring, and i thank you for your support and leadership in the council. on taxation – one of the priorities of the may european council, and which is so important for the legitimacy of every other effort we make in terms of public finances – we now have a mandate for negotiating savings and taxation agreements with non-european union third countries, as well as the council decision authorising enhanced cooperation for a directive on the financial transaction tax. in the area of enlargement, the historic decision to open negotiations with serbia was confirmed and the council agreed to open negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo. so it was an eventful six months, but no deal was more important than the political deal reached on the multiannual financial framework last week. last week’s agreement represents a good compromise between the interests of the member states and the objectives of the european parliament. as you know, this is the result of the longest and hardest-fought budget negotiations ever. i believe the final result sends out an important signal that the institutions of the european union are able to work together and agree on a budget that will help the european union emerge from the crisis. the commission has played its role fully, and i am happy that president schulz and the taoiseach were able to meet with me, first to unblock the negotiations and then to build on that to come to an agreement at political level on the mff. we hope this will be formally endorsed by all. the dynamics of the negotiation process, unanimity in the council and consent by absolute majority in parliament, require that all sides move towards a consensus. i want to praise all those that have worked for this objective, namely parliament’s negotiating teams – without their commitment this could not have been possible – and those from the irish presidency and the commission. for the commission, the objective has been to ensure that the future budget is workable and manageable. as you know, our initial proposal was more ambitious, but the final outcome respects those principles, maintains a necessary balance and keeps the basic structure of the initial proposal intact. from the beginning, the commission called for as much flexibility as possible, and we have strongly supported parliament in this demand. i am satisfied that this was finally achieved. the role of the parliament throughout the negotiations has been very significant and successful. in addition to the flexibility of payments and commitments, parliament was able to secure a number of important breakthroughs. let me just mention some of them: on the midterm review of the mff, on support for measures against youth unemployment, education, research and smes, on the consolidation of the programme of aid to the most deprived and the clear commitments regarding the amending budget for 2013, which need to be fully honoured. i would also like to remind you of the decisions concerning the follow-up on the issue of own resources. taken together, they show how parliament was able to use its consent power responsibly and effectively. for this reason, after member states in the council have already given the mff their full backing, i hope this house, in its political resolution, will also support it tomorrow. we need this budget, not for the european union institutions but for our citizens and our regions, particularly those that are in a more difficult situation where investment from the european union makes up by far the lion’s share of public investment. in the context of the mff, i also need to refer to the very important achievements on some of the sectoral mff programmes during the irish presidency. let me name just a few of them as examples. an important agreement was reached on the reform of the common agricultural policy after 2013 – which was another of the irish priorities – strengthening the position of farmers within the food production chain, making direct payments fairer and greener and making the cap more effective and more transparent. an agreement on the reform of the common fisheries policy was also reached. there is now a political deal for other sectoral mff proposals, some of them very innovative and a source of special pride at the commission, such as cosme for smes, the connecting europe facility, creative europe, erasmus+ and horizon 2020. to conclude, the irish presidency had all the elements of a successful one: a clear set of priorities, genuine political commitment, technical knowledge and drive, and a safe pair of hands to manage it all, as well as the capacity – as the taoiseach underlined – to build on and reinforce the relationship of trust and respect between the presidency of the council and the european institutions such as the european parliament and the european commission. thank you for your hard work and close cooperation. we will all benefit from that in the next six months which, under the lithuanian presidency – the first ever lithuanian presidency – promise to be just as important for europe’s economic and political future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have rarely been in the minority as i am today. i must confess that i do not understand you. i don't understand this self-satisfaction. i must live on another planet when i hear president kenny declare to us: "the citizens will say thank you". the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: they do not understand europe. they don't understand what we're doing and you say we have a budget to meet the challenge of the crisis. i'm not going to the hospital. we do not have a budget to meet the challenge of the crisis. we do not have a budget which is really a budget for the development of southern europe. i'm not going to do it. we have today an agreement which is at a discount: we are bringing in 9 billion for young people, while, during the election campaign, on the same day as the president of the parliament, mr martin schulz, concluded an agreement for 9 billion for young people, the social democrat candidate steinbrück in the bundestag said that he would have to bring in 20 billion at least to combat youth unemployment. i would like to know if, in european mathematics, 9 billion and 20 billion are the same number. personally, i learned at school that this wasn't the same thing. who's mocking me? you have found an agreement and we, parliament, have rated and we rate this as a historic moment to put european democracy back on its feet. we have missed the opportunity to show the european council that this is not how we are going to build europe. it is not a continuing national egoism led by a certain mr cameron, a national egoism which more and more governments are developing. we have not, as the european parliament, resisted this national egoism. and for this reason, when we demand a european budget with our own resources, we say no! mr verhofstadt declares: "you are going to see what you are going to see. after the revision, we will have our own resources". i'm not going to die. you hear nothing, nothing, nothing! the council and the heads of government, unanimously, have the power over europe. they do not want a democratic government controlled by a parliament, they want a government that is beyond a certain democracy. that's why you're not getting anything for the review! that's why we should have said no! the only language that can be understood by politicians is the rapport de force. the only language that politicians understand is when we know how to say no! when mr cameron says, "i'm going to veto", everybody is on their knees. if only this parliament had said: 'we will not have a budget for the future until we have our veto'. the structural funds, we still have them. we have no plans to support the south. we have no plan for the young man. that's why i'm telling you frankly i'm having the blues! i have the blues. i don't understand you. i am not sure that this is the case. when i look at you, here, it's the cold technocracy that has the power, but it wasn't the emotion for the european citizens in crisis. i thank you for having listened to me gently. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i should first like to thank the irish presidency. it has gone beyond a negotiating mandate which was terribly constrained by the requirement of unanimity. i would also like to pay tribute to the whole team of rapporteurs for their outstanding collective work and thank the commission. parliament has shown realism. the european budget is financed by national budgets, and national budgets are ruined. it was not possible to obtain higher figures. with such figures, will the union be able to finance the objective it has set itself? no, you can't! and daniel cohn-bendit was right to say that. so what do you do? first, reopen the whole case very quickly. the new commission, the new parliament and the council will be able to work on it as from 2016. secondly, to lay the foundations for autonomous financing of the union budget. a new procedure will be launched in the autumn. the national parliaments will be associated in a kind of european mini-convention. finally, better and faster use of scarcer resources to promote employment for young people, investment in the future and aid for the poorest. no, this compromise does not save europe, but it does finance the most urgent needs and it sets out a method and a timetable for a lasting solution to the present budgetary impasse. i recommend that parliament accept it. in accordance with this political agreement, we will proceed to the legal vote at the beginning of the year, when the council has adopted the necessary payment appropriations for 2013.
mr president, at the risk of offending this noble house once again, and even if neither ireland nor lithuania is responsible for the scandal that has been shaking europe for the last few days, this outgoing and incoming presidency would be proud to announce publicly that the discovery of prism, a vast police operation of states and citizens, especially european citizens, is a surprise only for the people, and not for the elites of the member states that make up the european union. they would do well to admit that the european union bears a heavy responsibility since it is unable to protect the individual freedoms of the citizens of the union's states, that the weakness of its concrete reactions is equal only to the vibrations of its pitiful groans of artificial indignation, that the real protection of millions of individuals and internet users, whose communications have been spied on, listened to, tracked, cannot pass through the european union a supranational, technocratic, anti-democratic body, resolutely submissive to the united states and which, through acta, itself sought to secretly monitor the citizens of the union's member states; the best proof of this complicity between the european union and the united states will be the acceleration of this terrible free trade agreement with the united states, which is deadly for our economy, our agriculture, our defence and, today, for our freedoms.
mr president, i would like to point out very briefly, before the vote on mrs wikström's report on the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen, that she was unable to get this question debated in plenary, that she did not have the opportunity to speak in this respect before all our colleagues and that it was not even possible to get a nominal vote on this subject, so that everyone would take responsibility. in other words, the procedure is more like that of the supreme soviet of the former soviet union than that of a parliament that respects the rights of its members. (various movements)
in writing. i voted in favour of amending the staff regulations of european civil servants, with a view to saving money and modernising the european civil service. at a time when great efforts are required of our fellow citizens, it was important to take this into account and apply the same efforts to union officials. we have therefore approved the freezing of salaries for two years, the raising of the retirement age from 63 to 66 for new civil servants and to 65 for those already in office. these new constraints have been calculated on the basis of the union average, so that the efforts required of national civil servants are also applied to european civil servants.
in writing. we need to ensure that europeans' money is used efficiently, and that is why i support the spending reduction measures in this proposal. the citizens are particularly attentive to these issues and will be able to recognise the improvements contained in this text. this status raises questions, particularly with regard to the provisions on working time. the text is therefore moving in the right direction, towards greater efficiency in the european civil service.
in writing. the status of european civil servants is often the subject of discussion. it is undeniable that this status is advantageous compared to the practice (pay, working conditions, taxation, etc.) of a majority of european states. far from the original few hundred civil servants, it now affects almost 50,000 people and is in dire need of reform. the report does not go far enough, but at least it is moving in the right direction. but the problem is not that the european public service is not responsible for the eu's shipwreck. it executes and implements the increasing number of competences that national governments have transferred to brussels. now, more than ever, is the time to take back power.
in writing. i voted against the reform of the staff regulations of european civil servants, which provides for an increase in the retirement age. not a word about the precarious salaries, which are numerous in the european institutions, nor about the differences in salaries, which are nevertheless considerable: a language teacher, who is of course outsourced, may earn up to 10 times less than his student. the report's main measure is a two-year pay freeze for civil servants. what purpose? to claim that austerity is more just because it is shared by those who implement it. but there is no justification for austerity measures to be imposed by an unelected institution. the report does not call into question the salaries of certain european officials who are paid handsomely to be the enforcers of austerity and to justify, in a supposedly scientific way, the budgetary consolidation that is bleeding the peoples for nothing. first of all, we must change the way they are taxed. for french civil servants, for example, the difference between the community tax and the tax which should have been paid in france should be paid to the french state. this is the differential taxation proposed by the left front for all french nationals during the presidential campaign.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague dagmar roth-behrendt. this report dealt with the amendment of the staff regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants of the european union. it rightly pointed out in particular that, despite the current crisis, the reduction in the number of staff in the union institutions and agencies entailed risks and could lead to the union institutions and agencies being prevented from carrying out their tasks and duties. i welcome this position taken by the european parliament.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has forced governments to take difficult but necessary decisions to return to the path of fiscal stability. the european union welcomes these efforts and continues to encourage them to continue the reforms undertaken. so, at a time when the question of the status of civil servants is being raised, it seems to me that it is right to reform the european civil service. that is why i have decided to support this text, because it is aimed at saving money and modernising the service. the increase in the retirement age from 63 to 66 and the introduction of a new solidarity levy seem to me to be justified.
in writing. this report rightly criticises the european commission's intention to make drastic savings at the expense of staff, especially the lowest paid. the commission thus uses the pretext of a partial revision of the staff regulations of european officials, necessitated by the expiry of certain transitional provisions, to propose a very broad revision of the staff regulations motivated solely by accounting considerations. while expressing this right criticism and calling for the commission to substantially amend its proposal, the report nevertheless endorses such false and retrograde ideas as the raising of the retirement age which would be made necessary by demographic change. this led the commission to propose raising the minimum retirement age for european civil servants from 63 to 65 and to encourage them to work until they are 67 or even 70. i am voting against this report which, despite the criticisms of the commission's accounting blindness, deals a severe blow to the right to retire.
in writing. − at present, several eu member states are faced with a choice of economic priorities trying to maintain traditional but costly social guarantees or re-engineering the national economy to boost competitiveness in the long term, thus ensuring jobs and economic growth. faced with the financial and economic crisis, the latvian government reacted to the situation by significantly reducing budgetary expenditure, including public administration expenditure. similar action is also needed at eu level, especially in view of the fact that the eu budget for the next programming period is smaller than initially planned. i believe that the salaries and social guarantees of officials in the eu institutions must also be in line with economic trends in europe, which also means that we cannot ask member states to take austerity measures without also introducing them into the eu administration. i did not vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the ep's legal affairs committee, which made the report more accessible, because, although it contains necessary changes such as the extension of the working week to 40 hours a week, it does not include several important reforms from the european commission's original proposal. this applies both to the various types of basic salary allowance and to pensions, which the legal committee report unfortunately proposes to keep within the existing limits. i also consider that the proposal for a reduction in the salaries of civil servants contained in the commission's proposal was adequate, especially when compared with the salaries of civil servants in the poorest eu member states.
in writing. i have chosen to vote against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the staff regulations of officials and the conditions of employment of other servants of the european union. under pressure from the trade unions, progress has been made on the commission's initial proposals. this explains why the proposal put before the european parliament had the support of these organisations. but i cannot support a text which does not take into account the situation of precarious workers, those who receive the lowest, even the very lowest, salaries, many of whom are employed in the european institutions, contrary to the image usually given to them from outside. moreover, as a matter of consistency, how can we support a text which raises the retirement age from 63 to 65?
in writing. the international nuclear liability regime is governed by the vienna convention - adopted to provide adequate and equitable compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents - and the paris convention. since the vienna convention was amended by the 1997 protocol and the paris convention by the 2004 protocol, the commission proposed that the council authorise bulgaria, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, romania and slovakia, which are contracting parties to the vienna convention, to ratify or conclude the 1997 and 2004 protocols. accession to the protocol is optional for these five states.
in writing. i voted in favour of ratifying the protocol of amendments to the vienna convention convention establishing a system of compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents and a special regime for civil liability in the field of energy. the problem is that some member states are not members of the convention; some are members of the paris convention on the same subject. there is therefore a real heterogeneity among european states in terms of nuclear damage. the aim of this report was therefore to articulate the various schemes. to put an end to these misunderstandings, the commission will soon be proposing a proposal to establish the primacy of european law over international conventional law, which will oblige all european states to respect european rules, which take precedence over the various international conventions.
in writing. with this text, we are ensuring that victims of nuclear damage can obtain compensation in the same way, regardless of their country of origin. this harmonization of our rules will make it easier for victims to read, and most importantly, more justice for all.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which proposes a fundamental reform for greater coordination between member states on the nuclear issue. the text allows some central and eastern european countries to adopt the 1997 protocol amending the vienna convention. the text thus makes it possible to harmonise the european regime of nuclear liability, thereby leading to greater coherence within the european union.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague alajos mészáros. the report concerned the commission's proposal to allow member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention on civil liability for nuclear damage to ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol amending it. this proposal is a step in the right direction and was particularly concerned with the countries of eastern europe. so i had no reason to object.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft legislation on the vienna convention on civil liability for nuclear damage. this convention, adopted in 1960, establishes an international regime for the rules of compensation for civilian victims of nuclear accidents. in 1997, a new protocol amended the jurisdiction and enforcement of judgments. the european union has therefore acquired competence in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this is the case for bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia. the european framework will therefore be more widely applicable, providing better protection for victims of nuclear damage.
in writing. the intention to improve compensation for victims in the tragic event of a nuclear incident is commendable. she admits the danger. two points raise a problem: firstly, although the vienna convention and the paris convention are very similar texts, the commission does not solve, by this text, the problem of legislative distortion in civil liability for nuclear damage. the method of inducing a state at european level to ratify an international convention seems to me to be akin to interference. it does not correspond to a procedure provided for in the treaties. i would not accept that this method be used for france; i cannot accept that it is for another state. by abstaining, i support the improvement of victim compensation and i disagree with the method adopted by the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of reforming the state aid regime so that it contributes more to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and is truly part of a process of consolidating public finances. the main points are to increase controls by the competent authorities and to improve the handling of complaints. state aid is a key instrument of the state, especially in the current crisis, but it must be used in a way that does not represent a disproportionate obstacle to competition.
in writing. if we want public money to be used in the best possible way, to create growth and jobs in the fairest possible way, we need more efficient state aid. that is why i support the reform of this regulation, which, in the more general context of the reform of state aid, will make it possible to improve the efficiency and transparency of procedures.
in writing. the reform of state aid procedures must above all improve the effectiveness of state aid control. the text does this by advocating improved complaint handling and more efficient information gathering from market players. i voted in favour of this text because it represents a necessary reform of state aid.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague sirpa pietikäinen. the report focused on improving the handling of complaints and establishing efficient and reliable information collection from market participants. it is part of a general drive to modernise the european union's state aid policy. i am therefore pleased that it was adopted by a large majority of members: 651 votes in favour, 26 against and 33 abstentions.
in writing. on tuesday i voted in favour of the report on the application of article 93 of the ec treaty to modernise eu state aid policy. in theory, public subsidies granted by a national government to support domestic activities are contrary to eu law and the principle of free competition. however, the union does allow and provide a legal framework for certain exceptions where the action is in the public interest. the objective of this report is to redirect aid towards the europe 2020 strategy and the consolidation of public finances. we also want to reform the complaints procedure for sanctioning states which do not comply with the union's conditions, by means of a faster and more efficient handling of cases which are most damaging to the single market.
in writing. this report supports the reform of state aid control proposed by the european commission. in the name of free and undistorted competition, this hunt for state aid is already responsible for the absurd prohibition of public financing of certain productive activities of general interest or the dismantling of certain public undertakings. the proposed reform would further strengthen the commission's powers of investigation and control over the states, with the aim of concentrating controls on the largest state aids. i am voting against these new weapons given to the european commission against state aid.
in writing. in the european union, aviation represents €365 billion and 5.1 million jobs. in the face of the challenges posed by aviation, the commission published a communication, which is the basis for this own-initiative report, on the challenges facing the european union: some regions of the world are proposing more favourable legislation for the construction of modern airports, which should lead the european union to look at its airport capacity at the risk of european travellers moving towards these new, more competitive infrastructures. the european union must consider the investments needed to change its airport infrastructure. initiatives to improve the service and safety of european passengers and to support european airlines to remain competitive on the world market have already been launched to meet its challenges: the new generation air traffic management system (sesar), the clean sky initiative and the european aviation safety agency (easa). in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment to the european aviation policy, which aims to combat distortions of competition caused by the practices of certain foreign airlines to the detriment of european airlines. in europe, state aid is granted to certain local airlines for the opening of regional routes to the detriment of other airlines, thus creating a de facto distortion of competition. it was therefore proposed to revise the community guidelines on state aid and start-up aid. it is important to regulate aviation effectively, as this is a key sector for the future (forecasts of 5% growth per year until 2030, mostly outside the european union).
in writing. i voted in favour of the marinescu report, which gives a very fair account of the situation at airports and in the aviation sector in the european union. i agree with his view that improving the competitiveness of this sector so that eu airports are of the highest international standard is also an asset for its reputation and attractiveness. like the rapporteur, i believe that the decoupling of the single market in the area of single sky regulation should be accelerated. i also think it is vital to put the principles of reciprocity and fair competition at the heart of the union's external strategy for aviation, otherwise companies in the sector will probably be denied access to new markets. finally, in the framework of bilateral agreements governing cooperation in the field of aviation with third countries, it is also important to set minimum standards to be respected in order to avoid a 'less-than' regulation which is detrimental to passengers' rights.
in writing. europe is the world's leading tourism market: the european aviation sector has everything to gain from this success and must urgently seize the opportunities this situation offers it, in order to become a real springboard for growth and employment. with this text, we are putting in place measures to support this sector and help it to combat certain unfair practices of its competitors. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the role of gnss: the european satellite navigation system will be a key tool to better respond in real time to passenger needs, through the improvement of our monitoring and navigation tools.
in writing. the aviation sector plays a major role in the european economy. it represents 2.4% of european gdp and connects our continent to the rest of the world through a very dense network of airports. although european aviation is efficient, it faces very strong competition, especially from the gulf countries which subsidize their airlines. the european union must therefore develop an aviation policy aimed at guaranteeing fair conditions of competition with the airlines of the partner countries, but also increasing its investments in the sector to become more competitive. airbus, for example, is one of the most successful examples of european economic cooperation. finally, europe must work within the international civil aviation organisation to create a global system for the exchange of co2 emissions.
in writing. with competition raging in the global and european aviation market, it was important to remember that the rules of the game must be fair to operate in an open and undistorted market. the european union must react as quickly as possible and support the aviation sector in its transformation by adopting tools to support and combat any form of market distortion. protecting the aviation industry means protecting the competitiveness and attractiveness of the 5.1 million jobs in our territories, but also protecting our network of regional air services so important for our citizens! our manufacturers are faced with the emergence of new players, especially from asia, taking advantage of permissive legislation. but the battle is also between airports; if the union does not invest rapidly in its airport infrastructure, the global connecting platforms will shift to those same regions where heavy infrastructure investments are now paying off. and not to mention our airlines, which are now fighting against the emergence of asian companies with substantial funding, but also against the incredible growth of low-cost airlines. i welcome this position of the european parliament. a strong europe is an open and competitive europe, but also a europe that protects and acts in the interests of its citizens.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague marian-jean marinescu. this report focused on aviation, a key sector of the european economy. new challenges are being launched from parts of the world where much more permissive legislation exists. this report rightly points out the areas where progress is needed to cope with the crisis. the commission is proposing to increase the capacity of airports in the european union so as not to risk becoming less competitive. the rapporteur also stressed the worrying delay in the implementation of the single european sky and the sesar system. the report was adopted by a very large majority: 650 votes in favour, 54 against and 5 abstentions.
in writing. i supported the parliament's vote in favour of the eu's external aviation policy. in the european economy, aviation is a key sector employing 5.1 million people and contributing over €365 billion to the eu's gdp. however, competition from emerging powers, notably from asia-pacific, the middle east and south america, is threatening the european aviation sector. indeed, giant airports are being built or planned in these geographical areas, and risk diverting some of the airport activity outside the european continent. the union therefore needs a strong external policy and a long-term development strategy to remain competitive in the aviation sector. we must support european industry in this area and anticipate the expansion and modernisation of our airport infrastructure. in addition, cooperation at eu level, such as the single european sky programme, needs to be stepped up.
in writing. the aviation sector is a sector in the midst of change. the global market is important for european aviation and difficult in view of international competition. better cooperation is needed at european level. we should focus on air agreements at eu level rather than at national level as is the case. in order to remain competitive, incumbent airlines and new low-cost carriers should engage in a dialogue to share the market. state aid must not be an obstacle to fair competition.
in writing. i have chosen to vote against the resolution on the european union's external aviation policy. this resolution highlights the importance of the aviation sector to the european economy. the sector employs more than 5.1 million people. this sector has indeed undergone many changes since 2005. but behind the 'progress' highlighted in the report, the sad reality is the creation of an increasingly fierce competition that is developing at the global level but also between european actors. european aviation is indeed facing many new competitors from the asia-pacific, middle east and south america regions, but it is also facing more and more low-cost operators with shameful social and commercial practices that are gaining ground. the results are worrying: worsening working conditions, a lack of concern for the safety of passengers and crew. in short, there is no safeguard against the increasingly unbridled liberalisation of the sector, so it is a vote against without feeling.
in writing. the purpose of export credits is to support trade and investment by european companies in international trade. in 2010, as part of the update of the oecd provisions on export credits in eu legislation, parliament negotiated stricter reporting requirements. these were first implemented in 2011. in this own-initiative report, the inta committee, of which i am a member, welcomes the efforts made to improve and guarantee transparency. it is also worth noting the action of some member states which tend to report in a clear and transparent manner on their compliance with certain objectives of the european union's external action. in the light of the information available, i have voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. export credits support trade and investment by european companies in international trade. the rules in terms of declarations were strengthened in 2011; the commission therefore provided us with the conclusions of its observations for 2012. i voted in favour of this report to welcome the commission's efforts to increase transparency at eu level and for its cooperation with the other bodies (council working party and eeas) in setting up a sound information methodology in line with the oecd guiding principles.
in writing. export credit is a key tool for our companies to expand internationally. it is important to point out, however, that we do not have all the relevant information on this issue, which is regrettable: such a lever for growth and influence for our companies must not remain in the dark, it must be possible to evaluate it in order to derive full benefits from it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it supports export credits, a cornerstone of european trade and investment, while ensuring greater control of these. the text stresses the need for transparency in respect of export credits, which will make it possible to better control these financial flows. the text provides for clarification of practices and greater economic cooperation between the member states.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague yannick jadot. this report focused on the implementation of the new reporting requirements for export credits (an instrument to support trade and investment by european companies in the field of international trade). it recalled in particular that the main purpose of the obligation to report on the activities of export credit agencies is to verify that they comply with the rules applicable to export credits and the obligations imposed by the treaty on european union. it also stressed the efforts made to increase transparency at eu level. it was a single vote and the report was adopted by 670 votes to 27, with 15 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. − the commission's report has clearly identified the role and importance of export credit agencies (eca). however, the exposure of individual member states' ace activities during 2011 amounted to around eur 250 billion, including the 260 reports of transactions with high environmental impacts. the ace system is proving to be a positive and useful tool for improving the commercial and entrepreneurial opportunities of european enterprises and, in this regard, it should be further strengthened and complemented by the other instruments adopted by the eu in the same field.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on export credit agencies in the member states. the task of these national bodies is to assess the conformity of export credits with european rules. each year they publish a report to the institutions of the union on the activities of the states. the parliament noted that these reports did not make it possible to determine whether the actions of the states were in conformity with european law or not. therefore, a common methodology should be established to guide the procedure and content of the annual accounts. in addition, the assessment of the environmental risks associated with the exports of the member states must be given special attention, with a view to establishing a comprehensive strategy to reduce the carbon footprint of our economic activities.
in writing. this report welcomes the assessment by the european commission of the activity of national export credit agencies and their compliance with the objectives of the european union. it stresses the importance of these public export subsidies for the european economy. but it does not address the ecological impasse created by the priority given to exports, which multiply the ecological footprint of production. it is thus silent on the objective of relocating productive activities. to this end, public support for export sectors of general interest should be combined with mechanisms of solidarity protectionism which will enable each state not to see its economy destroyed by free trade. the report also welcomes the eu's efforts to put trade policy at the service of human rights and the fight against climate change. but he is silent on the current negotiation of a free trade agreement with the united states which is jeopardizing these very objectives. i am not going to vote for a report which, despite its good intentions, ignores such important issues as the environment and freedom.
in writing. export credits are an instrument designed to support trade and investment by european companies in international trade. they are very important for the international development of our companies because they provide them with great opportunities for trade and exchange. in 2011, new reporting obligations were introduced for member states to increase transparency in the credit institutions system. it is important that the member states continue their communication efforts to harmonise these appropriations and that new rules can be developed to promote the proper functioning of this system. in addition, the oces have to comply with a number of rules, they have to be in line with eu objectives, and these communications by the member states allow for more effective control and therefore greater effects of the appropriations. only by ensuring european political coherence can the eu become a reliable and influential player at the global level. this report demonstrates the effectiveness of communication, so that export credit agencies are more efficient and more equal between states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the regulation of export credit agencies (eca). these state-guaranteed bodies offer credit, insurance and guarantees to private european companies operating abroad, particularly in developing countries, under financial and political conditions which can be risky. but these funds are mainly used to finance projects which are not transparent and whose dramatic environmental and social consequences are well known. in 2011, the estimated value of member states' ceos actions was €250 billion - almost double the annual budget of the union by comparison. the resolution could have gone further, for example by requiring member states to include representatives of ngos and trade unions in the monitoring of the activities of these bodies. i have nevertheless voted in favour of this report, which is in favour of greater transparency in this area.
in writing. the european parliament has always been lenient towards its members. you have, for example, protected the parliamentary immunity of mr pannela and mrs bonino, who were involved in illegal abortions in italy, on the grounds that their actions were 'part of [their] political struggle'. you tolerated the insults of mr voggenhuber, who called mr haider and the fpö fascists, in the name of the "evolution of morals" in politics and the possibility today to utter "harsh words", "more sharp, more offensive" than before. you've defended mr. valenzi, who is suspected of embezzling public funds, or mr. cohn-bendit, who is accused of obstructing justice in order to aid a terrorist. you refused to let the belgian courts hear mr. öger in a case of kidnapping and kidnapping. finally, you supported mr. brok while he was being sued for tax evasion. this parliament is now always protecting members of the mainstream, even if they are guilty of common law crimes, and always endorsing the persecution of the minority's freedom of expression. this "double standard" is not only unfair. he dishonors you.
in writing. i voted for the waiver of ms le pen's immunity. the european parliament is regularly asked to waive the immunity of certain of its members when civil or criminal legal proceedings are brought against them. in this case, as in the previous ones, it is important that the judiciary can investigate freely and, for this, that parliamentary immunity be lifted. the lyon prosecutor's office will be able to investigate calmly to determine whether or not ms. le pen has been guilty of inciting racial hatred.
in writing. the european parliament voted on 2 july to waive the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen. i welcome that decision. if a member of parliament cannot be concerned about the positions he takes in the exercise of his duties in the european parliament, he must not be above the law either. in saying at a meeting in lyon that the practice of the muslim religion was equivalent to the nazi occupation during the second world war, marine le pen knew full well that she could be accused of inciting hatred, discrimination or violence against a category of people on the basis of their religious affiliation. she has to be responsible for her actions. i should like to point out that she did not even bother to be present at the examination of the lifting of her immunity in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament to give her position on this matter, which shows how little she respects french law. this case reveals once again that the national front, before being a protest party, is above all a party that incites hatred of the other, without ever proposing a solution for the peoples.
in writing. the report calls for the lifting of the parliamentary immunity that marine le pen has invoked to avoid prosecution for incitement to hatred or discrimination following her remarks comparing some street prayers to the nazi occupation during the second world war. this statement, which refers only to street prayers of members of one religion and not to others, was really intended to stigmatize those concerned on religious grounds. in french law, racism against people is not an opinion but a crime. these expressions have nothing to do with mrs le pen's mandate in the european parliament and their prosecution is not aimed at undermining the exercise of that mandate but at fighting racism. there is therefore no need to invoke parliamentary immunity here and i therefore vote for the waiver of ms le pen's immunity so that justice can be done.
in writing. on 2 july 2013, the european parliament decided to lift the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen, opening the way to possible legal proceedings against her. his comments comparing muslim public prayers to the nazi occupation have been criticized. i voted for the waiver of immunity not to stigmatize marine le pen, not because she is a "dissident" as she says and not to constrain her freedom of thought and expression. i voted in favour because, up to now, parliament has always agreed to waive the immunity of a member of parliament, especially since his remarks have no connection with his european mandate. political courage is to take what you say at face value and not to hide behind parliamentary immunity. it is now up to the french judiciary to do its job in complete independence.
in writing. the associative landscape of the european union is now very rich. the eu has no less than 110 000 public-benefit foundations, with combined assets of €350 billion and employing between 750 and 1 million europeans. these foundations could become one of the building blocks of a european identity, but the possibilities are limited by complicated and discriminatory statutes. they therefore face great difficulties in establishing themselves in other member states. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated. in these times of crisis, this small gain will certainly be used for more useful and beneficial purposes for all.
in writing. i voted in favour of a new european legal form to facilitate the establishment and operation of foundations in the single market. the aim is to facilitate their access to private funds for transnational projects of public utility. i've endorsed this initiative; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the social economy, such as the creation of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing. public benefit foundations are both flexible and dynamic instruments to strengthen our action in a number of areas, such as education, research or social action. they are better able to meet the needs of citizens as close as possible to them, in the heart of their territories and by adapting to their specific conditions, and that is why their development must be encouraged. i therefore support this text which would simplify the way in which they are set up and operate, by removing a number of administrative or legal obstacles which currently hinder them.
in writing. the european union has 110 000 public foundations in the fields of research, education, social services, health, culture, respect for human rights and environmental protection. they employ nearly one million people and 2.5 million volunteers. national laws differ widely from one eu member state to another, so foundations face many administrative and legal obstacles when they wish to practise in another eu member state. the european union therefore had to take concrete measures to facilitate the development of crossborder activities of public-interest foundations. the new legal form of foundations will allow them to channel private funds more efficiently to public benefit projects across the eu, which should increase the funding available and thus benefit european citizens and the european economy as a whole.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it facilitates the establishment and operation of foundations in the single market, which will be basically the same in all member states. the text will enable them to channel private funds more efficiently towards public utility projects across the union, which should, by reducing their costs, increase the funding available for such projects.
in writing. i voted for the adoption of a statute for the european foundation to ensure a secure regulatory framework for them. such a status will now facilitate the activities and work of the foundations in the various eu countries where they wish to operate. it is admittedly difficult to give a generic definition of the term 'foundation' because of the diversity of legislation in the member states and the different languages and cultures which relate to it. the concept of public utility is nevertheless recognised throughout europe. the foundations are an essential element in creating the social bond, which is why it is important to give them recognition at european level.
in writing. i supported the interim report by my colleague evelyn regner. this report dealt with the development of the conditions governing the establishment and operation of a european foundation to facilitate cross-border activities of public-service entities. the european parliament's role in this matter is limited to giving its approval to the council's proposal for a regulation. but this interim report allows parliament to put forward concrete proposals, shaped in part by the epp. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft law on the statute of the european foundation (ef). in its many and varied activities, the fe has a particular role to play with civil society in promoting the eu's fundamental values and rights, notably in the area of the social economy and the funding of innovative projects of public interest. however, fe is facing obstacles in carrying out these activities in the member states. we therefore want to create an appropriate european legal framework which will facilitate the functioning and action of the foundation. it will make it possible to better mobilise european funds to support enterprises whose main objective is to promote social interests.
in writing. this report amends the proposal for a council regulation on the statute for a european foundation. it recalled that foundations play an important role in the european union and are active in various sectors such as training, research, social action, health, environmental protection, etc. although it takes seriously the need to clarify the definition of public utility in the different member states, this report proposes harmonisation measures which are sometimes very questionable. for example, it slyly proposes to include the promotion of interreligious dialogue in the definition of public utility (article 5 (2) (b), amendment 8), which is contrary to the principle of secularism. in order not to endorse such a definition of public utility despite the praiseworthy intentions, i am voting against this report.
in writing. the approximately 110 000 public-benefit foundations in the european union employ between 750 000 and 1 000 000 europeans. their combined assets are valued at about eur 350 billion, their combined expenditure at some eur 83 billion. this report should facilitate the development of public-interest foundations operating in several member states, particularly in such fundamental sectors as education, research, culture and health. the report stresses the need for transparency and makes concrete proposals to build up trust and take account of improvements in workers' rights, particularly in the event of mergers. in 2011, i had already expressed my support for the adoption of european statutes for all actors in the social economy in a written declaration (84/2010). i have of course voted in favour of the interim report on the proposal for a council regulation on the statute for a european foundation (ef). this report represents a welcome development. this is a strong sign of progress towards the development of a european mutual status and i hope it will pave the way for the european association.
in writing. port state control ensures a harmonised inspection system and the detection of ships that do not meet the defined control standards. port state control within the european union is governed by the paris memorandum of understanding on port state control of ships, signed in 1982 by 27 states. the aim of the inspection is to ensure maritime safety by means of inspection. in addition, a list of countries at risk (countries whose ships are not in compliance with the conventions in force in the maritime field) is drawn up. the non-normative memorandum has three objectives: the protection of human life at sea, the prevention of marine pollution by ships (such as the erika disaster), and the respect of standards of living and working on board ships. it should be noted that the control of foreign vessels calling at ports of call applies only in the ports of signatory countries. in order to ensure the effectiveness of controls and the harmonisation of inspection procedures, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of a change in the procedures for inspection of ships by port authorities. ships arriving in ports may be subject to controls by the authorities and may, where appropriate, be denied access if they do not comply with the conditions imposed by the port authorities. port inspection procedures at european level are part of the wider framework of the paris memorandum on port controls, which also includes non-european countries for better convergence of procedures between states.
in writing. port state control of ships, this allows us to ensure that any ship calling at a port in the union must comply with the international standards to which we adhere. this is obvious if we are to protect not only the seafarers, their lives and working conditions, but also our marine environment. the maritime labour convention is a key instrument in this respect and i therefore welcome the fact that this proposal for a directive aims to complete the integration of this convention into european ship inspection mechanisms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it allows for more stringent standards to be established for the control of maritime activities. the text lays down minimum standards for working conditions on board ships, imposes greater controls on ships that do not meet european standards and ensures greater environmental protection. the application of this text will enable our fellow citizens to live in greater environmental security while ensuring optimal working conditions for maritime workers.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague brian simpson. this report concerned the amendment of directive 2009/16/ec on port state control. it sought to align the directive with the requirements of the maritime labour convention adopted in 2006. the report makes some useful improvements, particularly in the area of exchanges of information and delegated acts. in addition, a good compromise was reached with the council. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report by a very large majority.
in writing. the maritime sector is a special sector which has always been subject to specific rules. however, this sector must not become a non-competitive area. in order to avoid social dumping in particular, it is necessary for the european union to put in place mechanisms to verify that the relevant standards are applied on board all ships calling at european ports. the non-more favourable treatment clause established by the maritime labour convention must also play a major role in ensuring fair conditions of competition in maritime transport. i therefore voted in favour of this text because it is perfectly suited to this.
in writing. i voted for the parliament's report on port state control. the european union is convinced that the european union can play a major role in the development of the maritime sector and in the promotion of the maritime sector as a whole. to compensate for the lack of application of these common rules and the risks this poses in terms of worker safety and the deterioration of the marine environment, we want to allow national authorities to inspect all vessels calling at european ports, especially those from third countries. moreover, increased cooperation between the eu and the ilo should foster the exchange of information and good practice.
in writing. this report aims to support and strengthen international labour law standards in the maritime sector, building on the recently entered into force ilo maritime labour convention. in a text published on 28 january 2013, the cgt stated that france's ratification of the ilo maritime labour convention must be an opportunity to improve the social guarantees and working conditions of seafarers and to combat social and fiscal dumping and does not serve to reduce the social gains of seafarers under the metropolitan flag . the simpson report guarantees this and introduces improvements to the commission's text: improved controls, safety and strengthened workers' rights. i therefore vote in favour of this text, which is a first step towards a right to harmonization that protects the rights of seafarers.
in writing. the directive on state control of ports voted by the european parliament is a step in the right direction. the european parliament recognises that there is insufficient control by masters and flag states of compliance with the relevant rules on board, and calls on the european union to put in place mechanisms to verify that the relevant standards are applied on board all ships calling at european ports, irrespective of the nationality of the seafarers or the flag of the ship. this directive is theoretically the beginning of the fight against flags of convenience. the report is also a milestone in the fight against social dumping at sea, since it sets minimum standards for working and living conditions on board ships. this report does not solve all the problems of flags of convenience or compliance with labour law at sea, but it can bring new rights to employees. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure that the sea is not a zone of no-go, in the hope that it will be implemented.
in writing. this report is part of the technical inspection package, which has three components: periodic technical inspections, road technical inspections of commercial vehicles and vehicle registration. it provides for improvements in the data relating to registered vehicles, which will be kept in national electronic registers, and technical data, which are not necessarily recorded in registration documents, will be accessible in the context of technical inspection. the amendments to the 1999 directive should allow for more effective checks and thus improve driver safety to reduce the annual number of road fatalities by 50% by 2020. by improving road safety, many lives and many accidents could be avoided, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the redefinition of the withdrawal and cancellation of vehicle registration. the aim is to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens, thus avoiding the need to start the registration procedure again when the suspension is lifted; and a mechanism will be put in place for automatically cancelling the original registration of vehicles that are re-registered in another member state.
in writing. the dual objective of this text is to facilitate and protect the lives of european motorists. i particularly welcome the attention paid to reducing the administrative burden on users. this text is an example of the european parliament's practical attention to simplifying the lives of europeans, with for example the proposal to have the proof of the last technical inspection and the date on which the next one is to be carried out appear on the registration certificate, to limit the number of documents that users would be obliged to have always in their possession. however, care must be taken not to impose too stringent or too costly an obligation on the states: toughening the requirements on the form of the files may have significant costs, and this is probably not a priority if one considers that there are much more effective measures to protect the lives of europeans.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it allows for a necessary simplification and improvement of the vehicle registration process in europe. the text also proposes greater use of automated registration of applications, which will reduce administrative procedures for our citizens. the follow-up of registration applications will also be improved by the text, adding to the simplification of procedures for our fellow citizens.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague vilja savisaar-toomast. this report concerned the modification of the existing requirements in the current legal framework for vehicle registration documents. the aim is to improve the application of roadworthiness and roadworthiness systems, particularly where the technical condition of a vehicle represents a direct and immediate danger to road safety. this report is part of the 'technical inspection' package, which aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers in order to improve road safety and environmental protection. i can only support such proposals. i therefore welcome the adoption of the amended proposal by the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on vehicle registration documents. the european parliament called for the safeguarding of these documents in national electronic registers to increase data exchange and cooperation between states in the fight against the trade in stolen vehicles. this new mechanism is a real added value, given that this type of illegal practice is particularly common in a cross-border context. the control of vehicles in europe will also be made more efficient by processing information on vehicle safety compliance more quickly.
in writing. this report is part of the technical inspection package, which has three components: periodic technical inspections, road technical inspections of commercial vehicles and vehicle registration. the aim of the current regulation is to introduce additional checks for commercial vehicles. the type of vehicle will be selected according to the risk profile of the farms (the more at risk the enterprises are, the more their vehicles will be checked), a profile established on the basis of previous road and technical checks (number and severity of the failures found). the checks will be extended to light commercial vehicles. the number of road checks per year and per member state will depend on the number of registered commercial vehicles. how will these checks be carried out? step by step: initial verification and further roadworthiness check based on the result of the first inspection. these checks will also cover the stowage of the load (as stowage problems can cause up to 25% of accidents involving trucks). the report also addresses the question of equal treatment by harmonising standards for the assessment of failures, the level of knowledge and competence of inspectors, etc. in view of these factors, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of applying roadworthiness testing to utilities, in order to have harmonised procedures in the member states. the proposal is part of a 'technical inspection' package which aims to bring about greater convergence in the member states in terms of technical inspection of motor vehicles.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on roadworthiness tests for vehicles. the text provides for a substantial improvement of the 2009 directive covering this subject. the report introduces a system of classification of vehicles to be inspected according to their level of risk, and calls for light commercial vehicles to be covered by the scope of technical inspection activities, with the exception of those falling within category n1, following an amendment to the ppe. i also welcome the safety provisions in this report, such as the check on the stowage of loads during road checks. in all, without forgetting the important notion of flexibility, this new text strengthens legal certainty and civil security measures around technical control.
roadworthiness testing is an important tool for ensuring the safety of european roads and for protecting the lives of europeans and our environment. i therefore support the objective of making technical controls more efficient, but this implies keeping two things in mind. first of all, the procedures must be simplified so as not to burden the drivers who are subject to it. secondly, it is necessary to ensure that this control is sufficiently well targeted to be a useful and effective complement to the periodic technical control.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it sets up adequate control standards to ensure the safety of all our citizens on the roads of the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, by rail and by road, and by rail and by road, by rail and by road.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague olga sehnalová. this report dealt with the proposal to introduce a risk-level classification system. the aim is to strengthen controls on vehicles operated by companies with poor safety records and thus to reward companies that take safety and environmental protection into account when operating their vehicles. this report is part of the 'technical inspection' package, which aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers in order to improve road safety and environmental protection. i can only support such proposals. i therefore welcome the adoption of the amended proposal by the european parliament.
in writing. i supported parliament on the report on roadworthiness tests for vehicles in the union. in order to achieve the european objective of halving the number of road traffic fatalities between 2010 and 2020, it is essential to strengthen and harmonise european legislation on roadworthiness tests, given the wide disparities between member states. the introduction of a system for risk and performance assessment of vehicles will enable the authorities to better identify vehicles which may not meet safety requirements and to carry out targeted checks. in addition, the technical inspection will be made compulsory for motorcycles from 2016 and from 2018 for cyclos.
in writing. this report amends the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council aimed at harmonising european roadworthiness testing standards for commercial vehicles. it proposes that member states establish a classification of union undertakings whose vehicles pose a risk to road safety and that targeted road checks on commercial vehicles be used only as a complement to the mandatory periodic technical checks. the report recommends a combination of administrative simplification of controls and harmonisation of european standards from the top. i vote for this report.
in writing. i voted for the exclusion of motorcycles and i regret that a majority preferred to include them in the scope of the technical control package. in my view, the introduction of compulsory controls for two-wheel drive is not appropriate. the studies on which the european commission based its proposal for inclusion are controversial. they do not in any way prove the effectiveness of these controls. i also believe that in this area it is up to the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to decide on their own rules. the union does not, in this particular case, have any added value. i therefore voted against the kuhn report. let us now wait to see what we can do in the negotiations between the council and parliament to bring this proposal back into balance.
in writing. this report is part of the technical inspection package, which has three components: periodic technical inspections, road technical inspections of commercial vehicles and vehicle registration. the current regulations set minimum standards for the periodic inspection of motor vehicles (except scooters and motorcycles). the report provides that two- and three-wheel vehicles are also covered by these checks. in addition, checks will be carried out on the basis of variables such as age and annual mileage (the older the vehicle and the longer the vehicle is running, the more it will be checked). the controls will respond to and follow defined inspection methods, while inspectors will need to demonstrate a certain level of competence and knowledge in order to carry out quality controls. it should be noted that any controls carried out by approved private bodies will be subject to national supervision. any evaluation will be carried out in a harmonised manner in all the countries of the european union. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of a technical control for large wheels of 2 or 3 cylinders, which should be gradual and more flexible than that imposed on cars, because i believe that road safety is not just about motorists, we have a duty to protect motorcyclists. from 2016, abs or other braking systems will be mandatory on large cylinders, and even though the 2 wheels are the subject of special mechanical attention on the part of the owners of these vehicles, no one can control an abs system without the appropriate electronic machines. the text adopted by parliament will be the subject of negotiations with the council. whatever the outcome of these negotiations, i hope that the objective of ensuring better safety for motorcyclists will be achieved and that a balanced agreement satisfactory to all will be found.
in writing. i am disappointed by the adoption of this report, which enshrines the obligation of technical inspection for two-wheelers, which i do not think is in the consumer's interest, by introducing more bureaucracy and complexity in obtaining and maintaining such vehicles.
in writing. i support the ambition to improve the harmonisation of our technical control rules: allowing motorists to move from one european country to another subject to the same safety requirements is a matter of course if we want to give substance to the freedom of movement so fundamental to our union. however, i could not vote in favour of this text because the exclusion of two-wheelers was not approved by the vote of the members. this measure is unacceptable because it is disproportionate and imposes too great a burden on two-wheelers, without any real evidence of its effectiveness in reducing road accidents.
in writing. the final text proposed the introduction of a technical inspection for two-wheelers. i could not therefore vote for it, because it went against all the efforts made in the committee on transport to exclude this type of vehicle from the negotiations. to date, no reliable and independent studies have been able to demonstrate the effectiveness of this measure in reducing the number of deaths on our roads. it therefore seems inconceivable to impose a requirement representing such a cost to the motorcyclist's wallet without measuring the real impact on their safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of excluding two-wheelers from the draft harmonised technical control in the european union. i regret, however, that this position has not been followed by a majority in the european parliament. i am firmly opposed to the introduction of compulsory technical inspection for these types of vehicles. but the part is not totally lost in that the text adopted today will be submitted to the member states. a majority of them are opposed to the inclusion of two-wheelers. i am also pleased to see that the frequency of these checks is maintained at two years and not reduced to one year for other vehicles. the increase in the frequency of technical inspections for cars seems to be in contradiction with their technological evolution which makes them more reliable for longer. moreover, as older vehicles are usually owned by drivers with modest incomes, the intensification of controls would have resulted in a heavy burden for their owners. finally, it is up to each member state to assess whether this is appropriate.
in writing. the european parliament has accepted the amendments tabled by the socialist, green and liberal groups calling for the reintroduction of compulsory technical inspections for two-wheel vehicles, although these same amendments were rejected in the votes in the committee on transport. it is a regrettable decision, not based on any tangible scientific evidence. the european commission's studies, which establish a correlation between road accidents and the absence of technical inspections for two-wheelers, are questionable, since they were carried out by the company which itself carries out the technical inspections in germany! i would remind you that the member states have themselves spoken out against the technical inspection of two-wheelers. at present we cannot predict the approach that will be taken for two-wheelers. the relevant provisions will be the subject of negotiations between the council and the european parliament. i remain hopeful that an acceptable solution can be found.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague werner kuhn. this report focused on the alignment of the inspection frequency of high mileage vehicles with that of older vehicles. it also dealt with the proposal to introduce new requirements concerning several aspects of the quality of controls. this report is part of the 'technical inspection' package, which aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers in order to improve road safety and environmental protection. i can only support such proposals. i therefore welcome the adoption of the amended proposal by the european parliament.
in writing. directive 2009/40/ec sets minimum standards for periodic checks and applies to passenger cars, heavy goods vehicles, coaches and buses but not to scooters and motorcycles. however, for several years now, the european union has been trying to generalize technical inspection by making it compulsory for both wheels. i am firmly opposed to this initiative because, firstly, its usefulness has not yet been demonstrated and, secondly, it would again be a penalty for the most modest households, many of whom have only this means of transport to get to work. that is why i opposed this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the periodic technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers. in order to reduce the number of road accidents in europe and to ensure better protection of the environment, we have decided to increase the frequency and to impose stricter rules on the technical inspection of passenger cars, buses and coaches, and heavy goods vehicles. the aim is to guarantee a high level of safety on all european roads. the new conditions also apply to trailers of more than two tonnes and caravans of more than 750 kg.
in writing. this report amends the proposal for a parliament and council regulation on the european harmonisation of periodic technical inspection standards for four-wheel vehicles and trailers. despite its desire to give priority to harmonisation of technical inspection standards at the top, to maintain the sovereignty of the member states in the implementation of inspections, to improve prevention rather than repression, and to ensure the independence of inspectors, this report largely gives priority to safety standards over environmental standards. for this reason, i abstain.
in writing. the draft european regulation on the unified technical inspection of motor vehicles provides for the imposition of a technical inspection on two-wheelers at the same frequency as on motor cars. i am opposed to this measure and have argued that motorized two-wheelers and three-wheelers should be excluded from the scope of this regulation. the technical inspection of motorcycles is not currently compulsory in france and this decision would impose significant costs on motorcyclists. furthermore, while very few accidents are due to poor maintenance of two-wheelers, this decision does not take sufficient account of the reality of the situation. i therefore opposed the report.
in writing. i was opposed to the introduction of a technical control for two-wheelers, which was clearly disproportionate: the commission relied on studies of dubious reliability to propose a measure at a significant cost to motorcyclists. we believe that the commission should have carried out a proper comparative impact study beforehand. there are lobbies behind this proposal. control centres and other commercial forces want to create a new market for themselves by standardizing technical controls across the union. the increase in the frequency of vehicle checks seems excessive to us; that is why we also rejected it in the committee vote.
in writing. the commission wanted to amend the legislation on technical inspection. the commission wanted to include new vehicles such as motorcycles in the periodic technical inspection. road safety is very important, but i am not sure that imposing roadworthiness tests on new vehicles like these would reduce road accidents. there is no evidence of any causal link between road accidents and possible technical problems with motorcycles. it would be appropriate for the european commission to carry out a thorough investigation establishing the link between the two before taking such a decision. and in that case, we might decide to take steps to protect road users. it is regrettable that the other members did not follow this, albeit relevant, position. motorcyclists take special care of their motorcycles, so asking them to do a technical check will result in extra, excessive and unnecessary expenses.
in writing. i abstained on this resolution on periodic vehicle inspections. the proposal contains provisions for improving road safety. it thus extends the scope of mandatory checks to the groups of road users most at risk. it also increases the frequency of checks for vehicles over six years old (annual checks rather than biennial checks) or with a high mileage (160 000 km). it also provides for improvements in the quality of controls by establishing common minimum standards for faults and equipment. however, this resolution ignores the root of the problem. those who own old vehicles are the poorest employees who live far from their workplaces and have little access to public transport. we can therefore ask ourselves what motivates the european institutions to legislate in this way, and we can ask ourselves whether the measures chosen are appropriate. that is why i supported the requests of the motorcyclists and i am glad that they have been given a period of time in the hope that it will allow them to ask the right questions. i am also glad that the vote is not final and that the text has been referred back to committee.
in writing. the european parliament voted by a very narrow majority to introduce periodic technical inspections of motorcycles and scooters from 2016. i have personally opposed the introduction of a two-wheeler technical control: as it stands, this measure is grossly disproportionate. the commission relied on studies of dubious reliability to propose a measure at considerable cost to motorcyclists. we believe that the commission should have carried out a proper comparative impact study beforehand. the commission has also proposed to increase the frequency of technical checks on motorists. i also rejected this measure, which was rejected by parliament. after this vote, the directive will now be renegotiated between the institutions. the council has already adopted a position against the extension of technical inspection to two-wheel vehicles: we hope that the negotiations will go in this direction.
in writing. i regret the vote of our assembly which, contrary to the opinion of the committee on transport, wishes to impose a technical inspection for scooters and motorcycles. for these vehicles, as we know, the quality of the infrastructure and the behaviour of the driver are the main factors in accidents, with technical failures appearing as the main cause of accidents in less than 1% of cases. such a measure therefore seems unjustified and disproportionate. it will impose an additional cost on the owners of these vehicles, without any real improvement in road safety. the european commission, which is taking this action, had clear and precise information on this matter: a study it had itself commissioned highlighted the low added value of such an obligation. i asked her about these contradictions, but she gave no convincing answer. that is why i refused to give a mandate for negotiations on the basis of the text adopted, and if the final agreement reached by the council and parliament does not exempt this category of vehicles, i will oppose it again.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my colleague richard seeber, which aims to update the list of priority substances to be controlled and reduced in european waters. for the first time, this draft directive provides within two years for a strategy to combat water pollution by pharmaceutical products, which, for reasons of public health, is a major step forward.
in writing. i voted for this report on chemicals in water. it adds 15 substances to the list of 33 pollutants already monitored and controlled in surface waters in the union, including three pharmaceutical substances: diclofenac, an anti-inflammatory harmful to fish and certain birds; 17-beta-estradiol, a hormone that acts as an endocrine disruptor in nature; and alpha-ethinyl estradiol, a synthetic hormone. the regulation, which was agreed with the council, provides that these substances will now be measured regularly in order to prevent health risks. at a time when many studies are highlighting the harmfulness of endocrine disruptors of all kinds, it is to be hoped that this regulation will be followed by concrete measures to limit the emission of these substances. as water, which should be considered a public good, becomes an increasingly contested resource, fighting for its quality is a priority that we must not neglect. in this sense, i support updating standards and setting environmental standards for priority substances.
in writing. the report lists the priority substances for european water policy. since chemical pollution of surface waters is a threat to the aquatic environment and to human health, a review of priority substances (including 3 pharmaceuticals) has been carried out. thus new substances have been added. environmental quality standards (eqs) have been established for these new substances, while the eqs for existing substances have been revised. why the change ? this is to take account of scientific progress. new monitoring methods, such as passive sampling, may be introduced to ensure water quality. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in approving the addition of 12 new substances to the list of substances that may pose a risk to the aquatic environment, i voted in favour of a stricter water policy. these substances, which represent a potential risk to the environment, will have to meet certain concentration levels in water in order to preserve surface waters, which are the first victims of water pollution. we have decided to adopt new and more stringent environmental quality standards to protect the environment in the long term.
in writing. this text is aimed at a clear improvement in the quality of aquatic environments. i particularly welcome the proposal in this report to create a single website to provide information on river basin management plans. good information for europeans is one of the keys to the success of our strategy to combat water pollution, which directly affects their environment and health. i support the general emphasis on good information and enhanced communication to the citizens of the union so that they are able to measure the effects of these preventive measures in practice.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it envisages the establishment of a coherent sustainable water management policy. by increasing the number of substances recognised as harmful to the aquatic environment, the text will lead to greater environmental protection and the conservation of healthy and clean water. this text will thus allow our fellow citizens to live in a cleaner environment by limiting chemical pollution.
in writing. i supported the agreement at first reading on this draft directive. the guidelines of the compromise between the european parliament and the council are aimed at improving the quality of aquatic environments. the inclusion of three pharmaceutical substances (synthetic hormones 17alphaethinylestradiol and 17beta-estradiol and the anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac) in the watch list rather than in the priority list is a satisfactory point. we shall consider whether or not they need to be included in the list of priority substances in the next revision of the list of priority substances. the establishment of this watch list is a step in the right direction to ensure harmonised eu-wide collection of data on the presence of substances in european surface waters. i regret, however, that the inclusion of bisphenol a in the list of priority substances has not been taken into account. a recent us study provided evidence that exposure to bisphenol a increased the risk of prostate cancer. some member states have even banned it, and i hope that the european commission will be able to tackle this problem quickly in order to harmonize this ban.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague richard seeber. this report dealt with the proposal to review the list of priority substances for water policy with a view to achieving good surface water chemical status. in particular, it shall amend the list of priority substances in a timely manner in order to achieve optimum protection. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 646 votes in favour, 51 against and 14 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. water policy is a long-term policy whose main objective is to ensure that everyone has access to safe and clean water. i voted in favour of this text, which provides for improving the existing water policy by amending the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive. the text also provides for the addition to the eu list of 12 new priority substances that may pose a risk to the aquatic environment and the addition of three pharmaceutical substances to the watch list of emerging pollutants.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's position on the european water policy, as regards priority substances withdrawn from the market, given the harmful environmental impact they represent. water is an indispensable resource for man and his environment. it is therefore a long-term action and strategy which will guarantee clean water for european citizens in the future. in this context, 15 new substances which are or may be water pollutants have been added to the list of pollutants under surveillance. studies will be carried out to determine the risk these substances pose before a decision is taken on whether or not to withdraw them from the market.
in writing. monitoring water quality and cleanliness is of paramount importance to european citizens. new substances added to the list of priority substances, including 3 pharmaceutical substances, will be subject to increased surveillance.
in writing. water, soil and groundwater are constantly and increasingly polluted by chemical and pharmaceutical residues, endangering both the health of citizens and the protection of the environment. in view of the seriousness of this situation, ensuring a quality water supply should be a priority, and all necessary measures should be taken to ensure the proper conservation of this vital resource. therefore, the inclusion in this report of pharmaceutical substances in the watch list rather than in the list of priority substances is not acceptable. i also object to the postponement of the deadlines for compliance with the environmental quality standards for new substances. it is regrettable that the legislation originally proposed has been greatly weakened in the negotiations with the commission and the council. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ensuring clean water is essential for the environment and human health. unfortunately, studies have shown that we are far from having good surface water. a review of the current legislation in this area is therefore essential. a stricter regulation will ultimately improve water quality. with the text adopted today - which i supported - twelve new substances will be added to the european list of substances considered to be a risk to the aquatic environment. these new substances will be subject to a maximum concentration level in water, which will take effect in 2018. member states will therefore have to introduce additional controls by then. in addition, for the first time, a watch list for emerging pollutants will be drawn up. the effects of these substances will be monitored with a view to their inclusion in the list of priority substances if necessary. note: this list includes three pharmaceutical substances (including two synthetic hormones and one anti-inflammatory).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because water policy is central to the health and living conditions of 500 million europeans. it is in this sense that measures must be taken on priority substances to combat water pollution. the member states and the union must pay more attention to pollutants, including pharmaceutical substances, in water and increase their vigilance, in particular through the establishment of monitoring stations. climate change and the increase in global population are making this resource more vulnerable, and we need to find a solution for its sustainable management. the european union must therefore develop a strategic and sustainable water policy in close cooperation with the international community.
in writing. implementing effective measures to limit chemical pollution of water is an important challenge for the sustainable management of this common good. the council, the european parliament and the commission agreed, in the context of the revision of the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive, to add 15 new priority substances presenting a significant risk to the list of 33 pollutants already monitored and controlled in surface waters in the union. three pharmaceutical products have been simultaneously withdrawn under pressure from the lobbies. the european union must take responsibility for the member states: water policy cannot directly influence the health policy of the member states. we are still in a post-market control, without really questioning the polluting production methods. there is even concern that the text will encourage the development of advanced water technologies, which allow water purification, while they consist of increasing chlorination instead of reviewing private water management and the use of pesticides in agriculture. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i am pleased that the three amendments tabled by my colleague mr belet, which i co-signed, obtained a majority of votes in the european parliament. in this report on state aid, these amendments were intended to recall the specific nature of sport as an economic activity and to emphasise that, in general, amateur sport cannot be considered an economic activity. we also recall, although it may seem obvious, that although, exceptionally, amateur sports involve economic activities with public support measures qualifying as state aid, it must be borne in mind that they have only very limited effects on the internal market. finally, our amendments stress that the court of justice has recognised the legitimacy of the objective of promoting the training of young people in the context of professional clubs. a clear framework is therefore needed to enable states to achieve this objective, in particular by supporting sports organisations.
in writing. in order to modernise public aid policy, categories of aid that would be exempted from the notification requirement have been identified, such as aid to residents of peripheral regions for transport, state aid for certain broadband infrastructures, etc. a balance must be struck between the impact of the exemptions from the notification requirement on the internal market and the fact that too many services are not excluded from state aid control. the report also states that free and fair access to state aid should be guaranteed to all relevant market players. in addition, state aid schemes should be given priority over individual aid. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. in the context of the reform of the state aid notification system initiated by the commission, i voted in favour of the exemption from notification to the commission of aid for research, development and innovation. these areas are the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy and the horizon 2020 objectives, and therefore the conditions for granting state aid to them had to be simplified. the public passenger transport service is therefore perfectly in line with this requirement for simplification in order not to infringe the rights of public transport users.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text, which helps to make our state aid more efficient and clearer. by increasing the number of categories of aid which can be exempted from the notification requirement, we aim to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and encourage them to grow and create jobs. the text we voted today will thus support the research, environmental and tourism sectors, which must play a key role in the recovery of a strong and competitive european economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens transparency on state aid. by clarifying which state aids need to be notified to the european union, the text focuses the attention of the controllers on certain limited state aids. the text thus avoids unfair competition between member states without depriving each of them of the support it needs to support a fragile and essential economic sector, such as culture and heritage. the report therefore envisages greater cooperation, without weakening the member states on their local specificities.
in writing. i supported this report on the definition of categories exempted from the notification requirement in the case of state aid. these exemptions would cover areas such as culture, heritage conservation, natural disasters, etc. these proposals are part of a drive to modernise and simplify administrative rules. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report by the european parliament.
in writing. i have approved the report on horizontal state aid and public passenger transport services by rail and road. state aid is money granted by the national authorities to support domestic activities. however, in order to ensure that they do not impede the principle of free competition, the union sets out guidelines and limits for the granting of such subsidies. the aim of this report is to modernise the commission's monitoring of practices by focusing on those cases which have the greatest impact on the internal market. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. in addition, a simplified procedure should be established to deal more quickly with cases with a lesser impact. finally, new categories of aid were authorised, in particular for grants with a social purpose and in the public interest, such as the opening up of peripheral regions through transport infrastructure projects. we are thus allowing the states to invest in the construction and coordination of rail and road networks, in order to increase the mobility of citizens throughout the territory.
in writing. this text does not call into question the principle of free and undistorted competition but provides for the relaxation of certain controls in the award of public aid. the commission is taking the right course, as is not customary, by proposing to add areas to the list of those benefiting from these facilities. but parliament's report refuses to relax the conditions for public aid in the name of public transport, even though the liberals in the commission agreed to this. the dogmatism of the right wing of parliament is unbearable. i do not want to impede the relief gained by other sectors such as amateur sport or culture from the control of the commission's anti-subsidy bureaucracy. i'm not going to.
in writing. i abstained on this legislative resolution on state aid. the commission is asked to focus on the largest aid schemes, to simplify the rules and to speed up the authorisation processes. we can only be pleased. i have also proposed with 40 of my colleagues that aid to the sports sector, and in particular to amateur sport, should now be exempted from notification of aid to the commission, which is to include it in the mechanisms for which the gis benefits. however, the fundamentals underlying the text remain unchanged. the liberal provisions of the treaties continue to treat state aid as an exception, in breach of article 14 tfeu, which reaffirms the subsidiarity of the member states in defining what constitutes the general interest. more sectors should have been exempted. finally, the commission has attempted to amend an act adopted under codecision by means of a procedure whereby parliament is merely consulted and has therefore flouted parliament's legislative prerogatives. so much for not having sex.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is the world's leading maritime area, thanks to its outermost regions. it was therefore important that, in this report on blue growth, they should be clearly identified as an essential element of the european strategy, as the union's relays in the world, by their expertise in seaside tourism, thanks to the panoply of renewable energies at their disposal, on the basis of the important discoveries in the field of mineral and energy deposits. but blue growth must be part of an integrated management of maritime and coastal areas. the sustainability criterion should therefore be at the heart of maritime activities, as they are based on extremely fragile environments, with the aim of avoiding that some negative externalities related to maritime activities are harmful to others. it is therefore essential to structure these activities and the coastal area at community level and, as such, the report by mrs isabelle thomas on maritime spatial planning will be decisive for the economic development of our coasts.
in writing. about half of europe's population now lives along 89 000 km of damaged european coastline. the situation requires sustained and careful management, otherwise we are headed for an ecological and human disaster. it is very difficult to assess the consequences of human activity on marine ecosystems and even more difficult to repair them. that is why in this report we are advocating the sustainable and responsible management of our coastlines, combining infrastructure, social considerations and respect for our waters. seasonal tourism, respect for biodiversity, training of seafarers and the need to create a single maritime area are all areas where the union can add value. the european commission has integrated this idea of blue growth around five key areas: blue energy, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mining and blue biotechnology. in this report we encourage the commission to develop a fully integrated strategy for the maritime area around 'blue growth'.
in writing. the commission, in the europe 2020 strategy, has recognised the economic potential that blue growth could represent. the objective of the blue economy is to achieve a healthy maritime economy, a source of innovation, growth and sustainable development. what are the obstacles to this objective? the issue of appropriate qualifications, access to venture capital, fragmentation of marine data, environmental challenges and the complexity of planning mechanisms. the report identified two main objectives: integrated sustainable growth but also growth coupled with a high employment rate. as blue growth is an asset for the economy of tomorrow, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of launching a joint initiative of the commission, member states and regions working together to harness the potential of the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy. sustainable and integrated blue growth, but accompanied by a high employment rate, is needed to increase the attractiveness of employment in this sector. i am in favour of creating strong maritime clusters, while protecting smes in the sector. assainie, blue growth can be a source of innovation, growth and sustainable development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on blue growth because i share the rapporteur's main objectives, namely sustainable and integrated growth with high employment in sectors linked to the coastal economy. in line with the guidelines of the future integrated maritime policy, it is essential to link the maritime sector to the development of coastal areas, which is why it is important to give priority to tourism, as this report does. similarly, it is crucial to plan a sustainable shipping policy to preserve vulnerable marine ecosystems, while taking a realistic approach to these issues, so as not to burden economic activity. in this respect, i am pleased that this report takes a balanced approach.
in writing. i welcome the approach taken in this report, which puts our ambitions for growth and jobs at the forefront, while linking them to our imperatives for protecting the environment and combating climate change. there is still a great deal of untapped growth potential for coastal regions and the marine sector and, as this text rightly emphasises, this is an opportunity for women and young people to seize: vocational training and the integration of new entrepreneurs is indeed a key issue, to which we must give full importance if we want to create a blue growth that is both sustainable and dynamic.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to ensure greater european cooperation on the sustainable and ecological exploitation of the marine environment. the text proposes in particular the promotion of environmentally friendly marine fuels and the expansion of recycling and waste management industries, which makes it possible to envisage a healthier and more environmentally friendly economy. the text also provides for effective protection of smes, reducing the risk of increasing the burden on these types of enterprises, which is so important for our territories.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague, mr spyros danellis. the report made proposals to improve sustainable growth in the union's marine sector, maritime transport and tourism. improving growth is a major objective of the union and i support any measure to that end. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text by parliament.
in writing. more than 70% of the earth's surface is covered by oceans and seas. the latter will play an increasingly important role in the economic growth of tomorrow and will be able to respond to the new challenges facing the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this text because it maximises the benefits of the implementation of blue growth. it ensures that workers in the maritime sector are provided with the skills needed to ensure growth with a high employment rate and aims to ensure the integrated sustainability of this growth.
in writing. on tuesday i voted in favour of the report on blue growth. indeed, maritime and coastal areas offer very positive opportunities for economic growth and job creation. the aim of this text is to establish a comprehensive plan for innovative and sustainable development in order to mobilise the economic capacities of these geographical areas effectively and fully. improving maritime transport, developing renewable energy sources on the high seas, including wind power, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mining and blue biotechnology, are promising sectors that should boost economic activity and innovation in these regions of europe. through this project, we want to promote the establishment of integrated and sustainable growth that will benefit a large number of europeans.
in writing. humanity, whose population has tripled in a hundred years, is about to enter the sea. the question is not whether man will exploit the oceans, but to ensure that he does so in a sustainable way. it is a matter of survival for our ecosystem and therefore for humanity. therefore, it is not appropriate to recycle past revenue and 'buy' growth, but to make a qualitative leap by creating the conditions for progress. in blue growth, the problem is not the color. the intentions and objectives of this report are commendable, particularly in terms of the centrality of the sea issue in future human development possibilities. however, it is the one that is most responsible for deregulation and competition in the recommended means. i'm not going to do it to raise awareness.
in writing. the european union, the world's leading maritime area, intends to defend an ambitious blue economy which today represents 5.4 million jobs. the report thus presents a comprehensive and coordinated strategy to develop the potential for growth and job creation of the sea and coastline. the socialists have placed a great deal of emphasis on the sustainable management of the marine environment and the pool of highly skilled jobs in the fisheries sector.
in writing. the eu remains the world's leading maritime power and is expected to generate €590 billion in value added and 7 million jobs in the sector by 2020. the maritime and coastal economies are the levers for growth, employment and competitiveness in the european union, and this is particularly true in my euro-region. this report on 'blue growth' is a real roadmap to achieve these objectives. it encourages sustainable practices, makes the professions in the sector more attractive, supports innovation and stresses the protection of the environment and biodiversity. that is why i voted in favour of it, especially as it will strengthen the european competitiveness of our industries and help to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on maritime policy, which proposes, in particular, the introduction of real maritime spatial planning and encourages the promotion of maritime careers, considering that maritime space is a fast-developing sector with high employment potential. the environmental impact of the exploitation of marine resources is a leitmotif throughout the report. environmental issues are ubiquitous, from the concept of 'blue energy' with wind energy at the centre, but also through the effective management of marine waste and the promotion of organic aquaculture. the need to combat illegal fishing by enforcing legislation and protecting consumer health in the fish feed sector was also stressed. despite all these good intentions, it is still surprising to see the european parliament calling for more controls and more powers for the european union when it is the same ones who support austerity policies and have just accepted the drastic reduction of the european budget which keeps reducing the number of staff.
in writing. cooperatives make a positive contribution to our so-called social market economy. with 11 million employees in the union, the sse sector has a considerable weight, which is still too often unrecognised and therefore undervalued. the ess should be able to benefit from conditions for development no less favourable than those of other forms of enterprise. cooperatives are sometimes the result of a transfer of ownership from the enterprise to the employees. the possibility of passing on the company to the employees should be encouraged in order to ensure the continuity of the activity in the form of a cooperative. restructuring in the form of a cooperative should be supported by a specific union budget line also covering financial instruments. this would be an important step, both for employees, who become shareholders, to ensure the continuity of economic activity in our territories and to promote corporate governance based on the long term and proximity. this report has been adopted by a large majority in the institution, but i regret that the alde group abstained, whereas this report calls for the support of a whole section of the economy which, and this is no small thing, carries within it the model of society that we should promote in the aftermath of the crisis.
in writing. there are 160 000 cooperative enterprises in the european union, representing 5.4 million jobs in the member states. in some member countries, cooperatives play such a decisive role in the economy that it is essential to ensure a level playing field between cooperatives and other forms of existing enterprise. what support can be given to european cooperatives? support for conversion and restructuring, facilities to help workers invest in companies in times of crisis or the creation of a management to support cooperatives may be considered. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. in these times of crisis, cooperatives have seen their role in the economy of several member states increase. i have therefore approved the adoption of measures which are necessary to ensure a level playing field between cooperatives and other forms of enterprise. i also supported the principle that the european union should financially support transfers from companies to workers by creating a specific budget line in the european budget, in particular by using financial instruments. i felt it was essential to ensure equal access to the union's financial mechanisms and credit, as a consequence of their role in maintaining employment and growth.
in writing. cooperatives play a vital role in the european economy. there are about 160 000 of them in the european union, employing 5 400 000 people. they contribute, on average, 5% of the gdp of the member states. they often withstand economic crisis better than other forms of enterprise. their method of governance, in particular the accumulation of capital and the cooperation between cooperatives, allows them to support themselves even in the most difficult times. they can be a real alternative to the closure of businesses in europe. in recent years, several hundred industrial and service cooperatives have been set up as a result of restructuring of companies in crisis or without successors. this has helped to maintain local economic activity and hence employment. the european commission must pay particular attention to these companies and provide them with a clear and coherent legislative framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because, by supporting the bio-economy in europe, it allows the union to support innovation and research. the text envisages a better use of resources, allowing both food security and the use of renewable resources for industrial purposes, while ensuring environmental protection. this text will ensure the intelligent and sustainable management of resources, in the interests of all.
in writing. i supported the report by my italian colleague patrizia toia, because the european union needs to give more support to european cooperatives and promote a dynamic and promising sector of the real economy. the 160 000 or so european cooperatives account for almost 5% of the european economy and employ more than 5 million people. in addition, they have been remarkably resilient in the face of the crisis, despite the difficult economic situation. it is now necessary to defend the richness of their governance model, which not only offers the conditions for sustainable growth but also respects social objectives. in this respect, i support the idea of strengthening the regulatory framework for supporting european cooperatives to guarantee them more stability and to facilitate their access to finance and credit.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague patrizia toia. this report dealt with the legislation on cooperatives and social enterprises. these are essential to the european economy. they contribute, on average, 5% of gdp in each member state and have helped to preserve and develop economic activity and jobs at local level following restructuring of companies in crisis or without a successor. it was therefore essential to propose a clearer and more coherent legislative framework in this area. the report was adopted by 598 votes in favour, 19 against and 93 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. cooperatives play a considerable role in the economy of many countries and are making a major contribution to the recovery from the crisis. they create quality jobs and strengthen economic, social and regional cohesion. the transfers of undertakings have already saved many jobs by preventing companies from going bankrupt. as a model combining profitability and solidarity, the development of cooperatives is growing in europe and must continue to grow. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this text, which aims to create better conditions for workers in cooperatives. it sets up a directorate to provide support to cooperatives and encourages the member states to facilitate their access to financial mechanisms.
in writing. i supported the draft legislation on the contribution of cooperatives to the exit from the crisis. cooperatives and social economy enterprises play an important role in the eu, combining economic viability with solidarity. as a result of restructuring of companies which were in deficit or had no successor, several hundred cooperatives were set up and are now managed by the employees themselves. this new governance model is an example of social innovation that encourages the maintenance of activity and jobs at local level. in this context, parliament called on the commission to support the development of these forms of enterprise in the framework of its entrepreneurship 2020 action plan. in addition, a european mechanism should be set up to promote the establishment of cooperatives and facilitate the conversion of the establishments concerned. european states and workers need a comprehensive development policy, a structure for cooperation and the exchange of good practice and a regulatory framework that facilitates the use of european support funds.
in writing. the european union has almost 160 000 cooperative enterprises, owned by 123 million members, which provide jobs for 5.4 million people. the text sets out good practice and makes proposals to ensure a level playing field and to promote the exchange of information in this sector.
in writing. while there are some limitations in this text, particularly in its dimension aimed at encouraging groupings of cooperatives (which is not always necessary) and in the link between cooperatives and public services (the role of one is not to insidiously substitute for the other), i am nevertheless pleased that the essential subject of cooperatives is taken to the european level and that many measures are proposed to facilitate the creation and purchase of businesses by workers. this first step may not go far enough, but it must be supported. i will be watching closely to see what the commission and the council do about it.
in writing. the cooperative enterprise format is an essential tool of the local economy which parliament should support. in europe, cooperatives, in all their forms, have generally weathered the crisis better than traditional enterprises. there are 160,000 of them, employing 5.4 million people. these are credible alternatives to save, sometimes, the activity in economically distressed areas. in this period europe must support all forms of enterprise which make it possible to preserve employment in a sustainable way. i am therefore pleased that a very large majority of my colleagues have supported the idea that europe can help financially transfers from companies to workers by creating a specific budget line in the european budget, and in particular by using financial instruments (loans).
in writing. the cooperative enterprise format is an essential tool of the local economy which parliament should support. in europe, cooperatives, in all their forms, have generally weathered the crisis better than traditional enterprises. there are 160,000 of them, employing 5.4 million people. these are credible alternatives to save, sometimes, the activity in economically distressed areas. in this period europe must support all forms of enterprise which make it possible to preserve employment in a sustainable way. i am therefore pleased that a very large majority of my colleagues have supported the idea that europe can help financially transfers from companies to workers by creating a specific budget line in the european budget, and in particular by using financial instruments (loans).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support this initiative, which is moving in the right direction. the bioeconomy is a real opportunity for our regions and for europe. the extraordinary biodiversity enjoyed by many european territories is an asset that must be given greater prominence in growth strategies. the outermost regions, with their wealth of natural resources, could play a particularly important role in the emergence of green growth at european level. i am therefore glad that i have got this point introduced in the report. the effective exploitation of bioeconomy policies requires a more coherent framework for existing policies. efficient monitoring of initiatives should also be ensured. i therefore support the creation of a bioeconomy observatory and the setting up of an expert committee to help strengthen synergies and coherence between policies. finally, the greatest attention must be paid to citizen mobilisation, as the bioeconomy strategy cannot be effective without the participation of the greatest number of people.
in writing. i voted for this report because it shows very well the potential of the bioeconomy for growth in europe. for example, it stresses the need to develop methanisation in the territories, which is an increasingly important issue.
in writing. the eu, a pioneer in co2 reduction, is working towards its own target of a 20% reduction in emissions compared with 1990. this requires multi-faceted policies, a dimension which is widely covered in this report. it covers a range of themes that are dear to me: sustainable development, the energy transition and, although the term is not directly used, the circular economy. the importance of rational and economical use of resources, the question of biofuels and the resulting land grabbing, and the need for investment and training were also highlighted. the bio-economy is a sector of the future, particularly important in our context of energy dependence and mass unemployment. the concept is a bit vague and also includes the dimension of biotechnology, which i think should be used with caution. i therefore prefer to use the term 'circular economy' to describe the direction our environmental policies should take in the years ahead.
in writing. sustainable growth is one of the major challenges for our future. the european union faces several challenges: the increase in population, the increase in food and energy requirements, and the scarcity of resources. these are all factors which should make us think about a new approach to consumption and production. how should we think about the bioeconomy? the latter is based on research and development, cooperation between the public service and the private sector, agriculture, fisheries, the environment, etc. it is essential to consider and put in place today the tools and instruments to ensure growth in the future. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. as rapporteur for the epp on this matter for the committee on development, i voted in favour of this report. the bioeconomy strategy and action plan aim to pave the way towards a more innovative, resource-efficient and competitive society, reconciling food security with the sustainable use of renewable resources for industrial purposes. three priorities were identified: promoting research, greater synergy between the various policies and strengthening markets and competitiveness. i am convinced that the recovery of growth and reindustrialisation in europe require reconciliation of the economy with the social and environmental aspects.
in writing. encouraging our marine and coastal regions means making the most of our riches, for the benefit of all europeans. europe has a driving role to play in this area, and i welcome the ambition of this text, which is that we must create new models of production, consumption and development for the greatest benefit of our economies, our environment and our quality of life.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bartolozzi report for a bio-economy in europe because we are facing many challenges at the moment: population growth, increasing demand for food and energy, resource scarcity, etc. we must find solutions to address these problems, while allowing for the development of our economy and a good quality of life for our citizens. to do this, we need to be more efficient in the use of our resources and conserve our biodiversity, which we so need. we must encourage research and development in our enterprises (especially our smes) which, through their innovations, can help us create a new, more sustainable economy. this is achieved, for example, by more regular and effective use of public-private partnerships, better synergy between the various policies of the european union and a strengthening of the competitiveness of our markets through appropriate investments. european industry is not dead and should not be neglected: it has immense potential for adaptability in order to become more sustainable, more innovative, more competitive. growth and sustainability are not mutually exclusive concepts; rather, they can be combined and reinforced.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague paolo bartolozzi. the report aimed to present a bio-economy strategy for europe for sustainable growth. europe will have to face many social challenges in the next 40 years (scarcity of resources, growth of the world population, demand for food and energy, etc.). it is therefore essential to consider a new approach to production and consumption. i therefore welcome the adoption of this initiative which highlights the main points on which europe will have to move forward.
in writing. to be able to meet the challenges of tomorrow, the european union needs to build a bio-economy for europe. the long-term benefits of such a policy are considerable. this economic theory assumes that priority should be given to using those resources available on the earth's surface that are capable of renewing themselves at a rate compatible with human time. the effects are ambivalent, since the bioeconomy guarantees sustainable development by promoting, for example, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, but can also be the solution of tomorrow in terms of economic growth and higher employment rates, including the spread of industrial innovation. i therefore voted in favour of this text because it supports the initiative of a bio-economy in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament on the establishment of a bio-economy in europe. faced with the growing challenges of dwindling natural resources, the growing world population and its needs, and global warming, the eu must anticipate these major challenges by turning to long-term development and growth, a bio-economy. in this report we propose the implementation of a strategy and action plan for a bio-economy in europe. first, we want to promote research and innovation through coordinated programmes, as well as the exchange of knowledge between sectors and regions in the eu. furthermore, it is necessary to continue the harmonisation of the union's agricultural, industrial and environmental policies in order to carry out coherent and effective action across the continent. finally, the internal market and competitiveness must be supported, in particular by encouraging the activity of bio-industries and by integrating innovative products and new technologies into the market.
in writing. the bioeconomy strategy and action plan aim to pave the way towards a more innovative, resource-efficient and competitive society that reconciles food security with the sustainable use of renewable resources for industrial purposes, while ensuring environmental protection.
in writing. while the objectives set by the commission and this report are laudable (better use of resources, avoidance of waste in all areas, food security, reduction of greenhouse gases, protection of the environment and ecosystems, etc.), the solutions proposed are deplorable and counterproductive. it is not enough to put the prefix bio- in front of words to make an ecological policy. green capitalism does not exist and will never exist because capitalism is intrinsically productivist. only a general bifurcation of the economic system can bring us out of the doldrums. it is time to move towards eco-socialism and to put in place ecological planning and solidarity protectionism. i vote against it.
in writing. the commission's 'sustainable growth' strategy encourages the development of the 'bio-economy' and thus of biotechnology, which promotes understanding of the mechanisms at the genetic and molecular levels. there are many applications in the agricultural, energy, chemical and health industries. biotechnologies have an important role to play in addressing europe's demographic, food and energy challenges, but they are not the panacea and need to be closely monitored. we have tabled a number of amendments along with the greens. the measures adopted will emphasise the precautionary principle, the involvement of all stakeholders, including farmers and regional operators, and the need for detailed research into the potential costs of the bioeconomy. we know the debates about gmos and health and beyond, the risks to biodiversity, farmers and their dependence on seeds. how can we fail to be vigilant on these issues when just yesterday, after the closure of the public television, the greek right took the opportunity to sell the seed bank in thessaloniki to biotechnology industrialists and property developers?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, will this report be a step towards respect for fundamental rights in the european union? i hope so, because that is the challenge we face today. no, it's not about stigmatising hungary. no, it's not about voting against hungary. no, those who will vote for this report are not the enemies of the hungarian people. quite the opposite. there are those who take human rights seriously and those who flout them for electoral interests in every seat of this house. and this is not to question the right of legislative initiative of the hungarian members of parliament. we would be ridiculous indeed to do so. the question is whether the european union, following the example of hungary or rather its counter-example, is capable of ensuring that all its member states respect fundamental rights. because yes, mr orbán, you are right. as you have said many times, if we take the facts which are now being blamed on hungary one by one, it is almost always possible to find similar violations of fundamental rights in another member state of the union. that's the problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is enough to look at the case law of the european court of human rights. what makes hungary special is the accumulation. and, no, it is not a question of going all the way. everyone who works on these issues knows full well that article 7 is an atomic bomb, almost impossible to detonate effectively, given all the smart locks, i would say, put in place by the authors of the lisbon treaty. we have been working on this for several months, all groups together, to try to write a report which is as consensual as possible, and i share all the proposals that have been made. and if you've read the report, mr orbán, you know that your little progress has been incorporated into it. no, this report is neither leftist nor revolutionary; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am dreaming, and i would like to see the same diligence in this area as in economic matters. you told us about custody. but what do you think of the greek, spanish, cypriot and portuguese governments being put under the economic and budgetary umbrella? there's a real guardianship there. so this report is a positive sign for all those who still want to believe in the european dream, which has been so badly damaged during this period by the political, economic and budgetary schools... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam commissioner, mr prime minister, as you had promised, you have changed two of the last three points which were problematic, namely the special levy and the transfer of cases. the only point that remains is the restriction of political advertising to the public media, and i would point out that the same provisions exist in my country, france, and that no one here in this house finds anything wrong with these provisions. today we have the tavares report, which was voted on in the libe committee - a disproportionate report which mixes many remarks and recommendations which go far beyond its original framework and mandate. it is a flagrant abuse of the powers of the member states and it does not take into account the different constitutional traditions of our countries. we all have different institutional arrangements within the european union and the european parliament is trying to impose - which is not very healthy - a single system, which is not desirable. is there criticism of the lack of a constitution in britain? is there any criticism of the existence of a monarchy in the netherlands, belgium or spain? i'm asking you. the european parliament cannot impose on a member state the way in which the members of a constitutional court are appointed, just as it cannot force a member state to adopt a broader view of the family. that's not our job. the recommendations of article 71 are beyond our competence, i remind you. finally, the establishment of electoral observers in hungary for elections to be held in one year's time, and the establishment of a monitoring by the libe committee, in the form of an article 2 trilogue, is just as unacceptable as the use of article 7. let us not, ladies and gentlemen, give the extreme right the benefit of the doubt by making it believe that brussels is dictating something. that is why i shall vote against this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i did not want to intervene, but i would ask you to stand up on behalf of this parliament and this union and say that in future, if anyone compares the european union to the soviet union or insinuates anything of the kind, that it has gone too far. and i think you can be against the tavares report, but you have to tell your friend orbán: this european union is not the soviet union, and whoever says that has not understood anything because of our history! and you, young man, if you smile like that, then i say you don't know where you're sitting, and you don't know what the soviet union was. i ask you to tell your mr orbán that in future. this is intolerable, vaclav klaus has already done this and mr pöttering has already spoken out against it. i hope you will say something against this in future! he can say we're fools, we don't understand anything. he can say all that, it's his right. hungarians know everything, europeans are idiots. but the soviet union that's not us! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done over the last year and a half, and also the fictitious rapporteurs of the political groups, who have shown responsibility in the matter before us today. it has been a long, painstaking, and troubled job, and rui tavares has done it brilliantly. the work carried out in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has thus led to the conclusion that the systemic and general tendency to change the constitutional and legal framework several times in a very short period of time, as well as the content of these changes, are incompatible with the values set out in article 2 of the eu treaty. moreover, the adoption of a new law authorising the surveillance of senior civil servants is also seen as completing the worrying picture of the current hungarian situation. the european parliament, representing all european citizens, is therefore here, and above all, speaking in defence of european values and for hungary, contrary to what the prime minister said earlier. it is in this sense that we call on the hungarian government to respect the positive obligation, arising from the case law of the european court of human rights, to protect freedom of expression as a precondition for a functioning democracy. at the level of the european institutions, we ask that europe should have the appropriate instruments to prevent deviations. because it is clear that the current procedure is not appropriate. in conclusion, if the european parliament wishes to speak out loudly here, it is in order to advance rights in hungary and to ensure that the doubts about the reality of the rule of law are finally removed.
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs gál, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, i had the great pleasure of working with you on a report on fundamental rights in the european union. at that time, fidesz was not in power. i would like to know whether you would write the same report today and whether you think that the tavares report is out of step with the report which was adopted by a very large majority in this european parliament, which was yours.
mr president, madam vice-president, mr prime minister, this is not the first time you have come to this house. what are you saying? first, hungary is sovereign. we who have gaullism in our political formations understand this discourse. secondly, we are europeans. and you demonstrated that when you took over the presidency of the european union in 2011. thirdly, if the rules we adopt under the first paragraph do not match, we will change them. and you kept your word. so, yes, the tavares report is biased. so, yes, we support you. you have a right-wing party fighting you. we support you because you are a european, because you are a sovereign, because we are a union of states. we are not, for the moment, a federation. i was gonna say it today. we support the action you are taking to rebuild your nation. moreover, because you are european, because you have shown that, we are counting on the hungarian people, we are counting on your government, we are counting on you to make hungary a great state and to respect european rules. we trust you. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, dear friends, we will not succeed. we will not succeed for the simple reason that the hungarian prime minister and many of the conservative members of parliament do not share our conception of democracy. but i must confess that i do not share the views of those who support the bulgarian government, for example. i do not share the views of those who support the romanian government. and i can say that's true. we are debating a conception of democracy. what bothers me is that you say, "we're playing a political game". no, we're not playing politics. you ask the question of bulgaria, we vote with you. we have no problem with that. we are simply saying that today mr orbán - and in this respect guy verhofstadt is right - has a conception of democracy that is when a majority dictates what it wants. he has no idea of the majority threshold. tocqueville, going to the united states, says that this is the invention of democracy. a democracy is a majority that has a structure, that controls its limits, and that, mr orbán, is not aware of. he says he's defending the hungarian people. i want him to defend the hungarian people because they still need him. my family, mr orbán, delivered things illegally after 1956 to hungary, to defend the hungarian people after the russian intervention. yes, sometimes the greatest nations need the help of other nations to gain their freedom. the freedom of the hungarians is a freedom that was acquired with the poles and with others, and not just with the hungarians, who brought down that wall with the east germans. stop telling us that hungary is the epicenter of freedom. no people in the world is the epicenter of freedom! only democracy regulates power because a people can also make mistakes, even the hungarian people. even the hungarian people can be wrong! i apologize for you, mr. orbán; you are not perfect, nor your people, nor yourself, i'm sorry!
madam president, the material and human toll of the recent floods in central europe, and also in my region in the pyrenees, is considerable. i would like to extend my sincere condolences to all the victims of these disasters for the loss they have suffered. in addition to the human toll, the floods caused damage in the tens of billions. in some areas, everything was swallowed up - farmland, habitat, commerce, and industry. it may take decades to heal the wounds of such devastation. how can europe help to repair the damage and prevent future disasters? the european union is providing direct aid to the victims through the solidarity fund. the fund's current budget is one billion euros. he provided vital assistance. unfortunately, the council has decided to cut it by half by 2020. i would like to send a message to the council: 'maintain and use this fund so that european solidarity remains visible and responsive'.
mr president, first of all, let me congratulate our socialist colleague, mrs anni podimata, on her excellent work, for having succeeded in rallying a large majority of our voters to our positions in the course of the various reports she has been responsible for, in order to achieve a financial transaction tax that is up to the challenge. until this report, the european parliament had never spoken in favour of including transactions carried out by pension funds, the very same ones which, together with banks and financial institutions, have played yo-yo with the real economy with impunity. european citizens have paid a heavy price since the economic and financial crisis began. it is therefore essential that their representatives send a clear message to the council. from now on, no financial actor, no hedge fund, no matter how powerful, can escape this socially just, economically efficient and regulatory tax. unfortunately, i now see that this tax has disappeared from the conclusions of the june council, a sign that the determination, which was recently expressed in the council, has been considerably weakened, no doubt due to the intense mobilisation of the financial lobbies. i regret that we were not able to take the opportunity of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework to establish the timetable for implementing the tax and thus to link the revenue from financial transactions to the discussions on own resources. that is why i propose to keep up the pressure on the council until the october vote to achieve significant progress on what was one of the red lines of the resolution adopted by a large majority in this house on 13 march.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a difficult matter for the reasons that have been mentioned by all of you. i would first like to personally thank sven giegold for the work he has done and for his openness to discussion. i regret that we have not gone further in the consideration of pay. the commission has made proposals. we have ruled in crd iv to limit bonuses and to try to find remuneration that is both sound and in the interest of financial stability. the debate on the capping of bonuses or performance fees has also divided the industry, since interests differed from country to country. therefore, it was not very easy to find a compromise solution. but i think that at the trilogue, and whatever the vote of this parliament, we must ensure that we are consistent with what has been said in other areas on these pay issues. without consistency, we are not credible.
mr president, commissioner, we have a common objective: to ensure that we have a safe, stable and efficient banking system which serves the needs of the real economy, customers and consumers and supports the provision of credit to the economy, especially to smes. now, after this initial report, you will have brought a new stone to the building that you have been building with obstinacy and courage since you took office. i think there are only a few points to be borne in mind. the rest of the report is from mrs mccarthy. banking activities on the financial markets must be subject to strict rules and close supervision. speculative activities must be contained to prevent contagion and thus protect the stability of the financial market. secondly, it is important to take account of the principle of proportionality, which would have the effect of applying strict and unconditional separation only to banks with a significant share of risky activities; otherwise, it would be pointless. moreover, from a technical point of view, the market-making function is essential, and it is important to allow banks to keep these activities in the deposit bank part and not to consider these activities which allow liquidity in the markets as speculative activities. finally, allow me to make one final remark. it is time we took action because the national laws that have been passed in some countries are rather cluttering up the landscape and making harmonization more difficult, rather than improving the situation.
in writing. the proposed reform of olaf is very important. in particular, we should strengthen the olaf supervisory committee. recent events have shown that olaf should not escape scrutiny of its work and of the respect for european law and fundamental rights in the conduct of its investigations. the weaknesses in this area are worrying. we must respond by strengthening an independent monitoring body, which should have almost direct access to information on investigations and procedures carried out by olaf staff.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, the contamination of milk with melamine in 2008, the h1n1 influenza pandemic in 2009, the volcanic ash cloud and the aluminium sludge spill in hungary in 2010, or the e. coli bacteria in 2011, are all health catastrophes that have revealed the weaknesses of national and european crisis mechanisms. to deal with h7n9 avian influenza and coronavirus, we need to be better prepared. there are now many national and community mechanisms for preventing and responding to health crises, but these different systems are poorly coordinated and ill-suited to the international dimension of most threats. these mechanisms sometimes even interfere with each other. for example, during the 2009 h1n1 influenza pandemic, several member states competed to buy vaccines in bulk, increasing prices and time frames, and ultimately having far too many vaccines available. this decision on serious crossborder threats to health, which was unanimously requested by the health ministers, will fill a legislative gap. the aim is therefore to extend the current coordination mechanism applicable to communicable diseases to all threats to health of biological, chemical or environmental origin. the decision proposes a number of measures to improve the effectiveness of the fight against serious health threats. among these i can mention the extension of the risk assessment and coordination measures currently applicable to communicable diseases to all threats to health of chemical, biological or environmental origin. secondly, the possibility of declaring a european health emergency to speed up the provision of the medicines needed to combat the crisis, even before the world health organisation. thirdly, the obligation to inform and consult each other between the member states and the european commission on national preparedness and response plans for health crises. fourthly, the role of the health and safety committee should be strengthened with a view to better coordinating crisis management measures. fifthly, the creation of a legal basis for the coordination of the purchase of vaccines and medicines in europe. as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have been working, and we have been working, for almost two years on this exciting subject. we then, after the almost unanimous vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, began six months of trilogue negotiations and reached an agreement on 6 may. i am obviously very pleased with the agreement reached. we have managed to strike a balance between the intergovernmental and the community dimension, which is rare in a sensitive subject such as public health. the priorities of each were respected through a real spirit of compromise. i would also like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs who supported me and who also showed this willingness to compromise. the greatest success of this decision is undoubtedly the creation of a legal basis for the coordination of the purchase of vaccines or medicines in europe. this decision will make access to vaccines more equitable as they will be available at fairer prices, a welcome development, especially for the smaller member states, which simply could not afford to pay the exorbitant prices charged during the recent pandemics. that is the added value of this decision, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
mr president, i would like to congratulate our colleague, the rapporteur gilles pargneaux, who has done a really remarkable job on these crossborder threats which are particularly serious for health, to name just a few: in 2009, the h1n1 pandemic; in 2011, the e. coli health crisis. these have shown the poor communication strategy, which can also lead to serious economic consequences. and that's what happened to our farmers with e. coli. so today the european parliament is asking you, commissioner, to draw the lessons from this poor coordination between the member states and the commission. it calls for a number of measures to be put in place, and that is what the report proposes. i am concerned about the silence of the european authorities on the new coronavirus. this is a clear example of a serious cross-border threat to our health. and today, we are left with no response to this threat. two cases, including one fatal, have been reported in germany; four cases, including two fatal, in the united kingdom; two cases, including one fatal, in france. i sent a priority written question to the commission, which replied on 4 june that an active source of human infection remained in the arabian peninsula and jordan. but what do we do from here? you tell me, commissioner, that you are currently working with the european centre for disease prevention and control and the world health organisation to draw up health recommendations. so we wait. what's your calendar? how's that work going?
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for your speeches. i would like to conclude by highlighting three points which have been implemented thanks to the work of the fictitious rapporteurs, but also - and i would like to thank them for this - thanks to the irish presidency, which has been very proactive on this matter, and to the european commission's dg sanco, which has really played this role of passing on ideas, as we in the environment committee wanted from the start. the first is the establishment of a coherent and coordinated communication strategy at eu level. the e. coli bacteria were mentioned earlier, and the resulting confusion in communication had had disastrous consequences, particularly for the spanish economy. the second point - which i mentioned earlier - is the independence of the experts, which is not always easy to guarantee when vaccines are purchased. but again, this is a concerted effort, and i heard, commissioner, your speech earlier to indicate this desire to regulate with a view to greater independence of the experts. finally, thirdly, the importance of closer cooperation with the world health organization and third countries to ensure better coordination at global level in the face of these crossborder threats. in conclusion, thanks to this decision which will be implemented in the coming weeks, after - i hope - tomorrow's vote in plenary, we europeans will have done a good job, we will have worked hard to ensure better protection for the 508 million europeans.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr martin schulz, madam president, mr dalia grybauskaitė, mr president, mr josé manuel barroso, ladies and gentlemen, when the lisbon treaty entered into force, many commentators felt that the role of the rotating presidencies was going to be weakened. i never shared that view. each presidency has an agenda and perspectives and brings its own set of issues. each presidency adopts its own style, which makes it possible to move forward with issues that were at times blocked. this was the case with the irish presidency, which concluded the negotiations on the reform of the cap and reached agreement on the cfp, and the lithuanian presidency will not deviate from the rule and shows its priorities. and you are right, madam president, europe's energy policy is just one example. this is a very sensitive issue, not least because we still have energy islands in europe, and if our companies pay three to five times as much in energy bills as in the united states, it is partly because of these islands. in the 1980s we realised that to complete the single market, we needed to invest in transport infrastructure so that people's goods and services could move freely and efficiently. today we are faced with a similar challenge, that of energy, and the european energy grid must be improved. but this will not be possible without a european dimension, because of the investments to be made: €200 billion for gas, electricity and renewable energy by 2020 €200 billion which could generate 400 000 jobs, or 0.42% additional growth. only europe can provide this guarantee of the long-term security of the legal framework and the mobilization of the necessary funds. madam president, we hope that your presidency will be a decisive step in the creation of a genuine european energy community. we have a responsibility to do this, and you have the courage and, i think, the ability to do it. because without a stable supply of energy at controlled costs, our companies, our citizens, will always be penalised. this is a brake on economic recovery. ladies and gentlemen, a presidency is not just about big projects. it is also the implementation, the accompanying of decisions that have already been taken. and as i told you when we met, the devil is in the details. so now we have to go after him, the devil in the details, particularly in the context of the establishment of the whole of the cfp and the common agricultural policy. there is a titanic job to be done. for these two major reforms to be successful, all the elements of the negotiation must be respected and implemented. the same is true of our decisions to bring more transparency and better governance to our economy. the list goes on. you know - i have also told you - that your presidency does indeed start on 1 july, but you will not be able to start working seriously until september, and on 15 december it is already christmas eve. but we're counting on you, ma'am, and i know you're not short of will. so you have a very limited amount of time, and i know you've been at work for a long time. the fact is also that the list is endless - i believe it was josé manuel who said this - with the pact for growth and employment, comprising the two-pack and the six-pack, which was adopted last year. we're moving too fast on both of these decisions. we must now work very seriously on this too. there is also the europe 2020 programme on paper. it is an engine for growth, but it can only work if it is set in motion, and we share your priorities for an increasingly credible and open europe, madam president. act i and ii for the single market are part of this objective. there's an urgency to move this case forward. i hope that your presidency will succeed in doing so. as was said yesterday in the debate on the conclusions of the last council, it is also necessary to make progress on banking union. progress in this area is too slow. and for the first time, lithuania is taking the reins of the european union. your story, your vision, your position, will be invaluable tools to meet the challenges that lie ahead for all of us. as a political group in this parliament, we will stand by you as an active and vigilant partner, and i would also like to add, as you said, with the eastern countries, which are hardly mentioned today. i think that is very important in terms of stability, when you see what is happening in these countries today. so your meeting in vilnius will be very important. madam president, i wish lithuania and europe every success. you have an advantage: you do not need to know how the president of the commission works, you know him from every angle. so your efficiency will be good for your presidency.
mr president, madam president-in-office, we are pleased to see you here, even if this rotating presidency is - contrary to what my colleague mr daul has said - obviously doing double work with the fixed presidency of mr van rompuy, whose purpose is still being questioned. but, anyway, i have read your programme carefully, madam president, and i can say that it is perfect. the usual european rhetoric is also present: sustainable development, global warming, a people's europe, further enlargement with turkey, easier entry visas for countries south of the mediterranean - of which, it must be said, not many are coming to lithuania at the moment, but let's wait a bit, they will come - and then free trade agreements with virtually the whole world. i have heard mr swoboda, who was applauded very much when he asked for the maintenance of the social level of europe. the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is completely incompatible with the conclusion of free trade agreements with the rest of the world and, in particular, with countries whose workers are paid ten, twenty or thirty times less than in our own countries. so i have even heard, and i have read in your programme, too, many appeals to human rights, to non-discrimination, even from mrs wikström, who signed a report calling for the waiver of the immunity of marine le pen, while we have maintained the immunity of colleagues here, prosecuted for common law offences - concussion, participation in criminal acts, harbouring terrorists. and this parliament is teaching everyone lessons about non-discrimination. but he has an opportunity to redeem himself by, for example, giving asylum to edward snowden and julian assange. we shall see whether this is really a europe which cares about human rights. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mrs wikström, you say there is no link between mrs le pen's political speech and her status as a member of the european parliament. was there a link between the tax fraud of which mr brok was accused and his status as an mep? between harbouring terrorists, of which mr cohn-bendit was accused, and his status as an mep? between the embezzlement of public funds of which our neapolitan colleague was accused and his status as a member of the european parliament? but you, the majority of parliament, have nevertheless protected their parliamentary immunity!
mr president, madam president, your presidency of the european union begins with the scandal and the immense shock of the massive spying programme on europeans as a backdrop. edward snowden has still not found asylum in europe and, furthermore, evo morales' plane suspected of carrying him was forced to land in vienna. i really ask you, madam president, what you are going to do to ensure that this complacency and complicity of the member states with security and counter-terrorism programmes, which the united states has put in place on european soil, in defiance of fundamental rights and our standards, finally comes to an end in europe. and i know, madam president, that you are familiar with this case. you know it well because your country has acknowledged, through two investigations, that it hosted detention centers at the request of the cia, in the 2000s, after 2001. as president, you will have the opportunity to assess here in this parliament the report we adopted almost a year ago on this subject, which calls on the council to recognise the participation of member states in the establishment of the illegal cia programme and calls for independent and public investigations. your country has made a commitment to this and you yourself, madam president, have made a commitment in your country to reopen the investigations if there were new elements. there are new elements. they're in this report. there will be new elements, and perhaps even under your presidency, madam president. it is therefore time that europe finally respected its human rights standards in the fight against terrorism and for security.
mr president, madam president of the commission, mr vice-president of the commission, you will be chairing the council with ireland, after ireland and before greece. on behalf of the french delegation of meps from the epp group, i thank you for your commitment. i have three points to make. on the multiannual financial framework - and i hope that we will be voting on a resolution shortly - you will have to do the legislative drafting. i would ask you to take into account the political breathing of this house so that we do not have an incident of voting on the specific text, whether it be flexibility, the clause on the political review of own resources, etc. you mentioned the eastern partnership, you did not mention russia. i wonder, madam president, if you would not have a role to play in bringing the european union and russia closer together? in the framework of the trio of presidencies, there is a very important part on russia. of course, you're not the one who's going to chair the foreign affairs council. nevertheless, we have five member states which have borders with russia; we have strongly supported russia's accession to the wto. it's an important partner for energy, for iter. so i wonder if you could play a role when russia is chairing the g20 and the st petersburg summit is being held on 5 and 6 september. i would also suggest, mr president - and i repeat this idea - that we invite president putin to speak before our assembly, just as we could also invite president obama, given all the stories about espionage. a final comment, madam president, on our relations with heads of state and government. i do not know who in your government you will appoint as president of the general affairs council, but i would be very grateful if you would come to our house often, particularly to prepare the european councils. normally a minister comes, but if you could do us the favour of discussing with our parliament the preparations for the european councils, i think all members of parliament would be affected by this attention, also as a member of the european council.
mr president, madam president, you are assuming the presidency of the european union in a union in crisis and in this context you have heard all my colleagues express their demands and expectations. we know that you will not solve all the problems, but let me simply draw your attention to one aspect of your responsibility, namely that of taking account of the social dimension of the european union, of economic and monetary union. otherwise, the people of europe will turn against the european union, the project to which croatia has just joined and which is so dear to us, and we know that this is the solution we are waiting for, but in relation to which we must mobilise our citizens. you will not succeed unless we have fruitful negotiations on the essential issues under your responsibility. i am thinking first of all of the negotiation of the directive on the posting of workers. it will be a difficult negotiation, but you must know that for many of our fellow citizens this directive is the symbol of the social dumping they do not want and which is making them turn against the european union. then, after the german elections, you will have to start the discussion on a real economic and monetary union. so you must also take account of the social dimension, otherwise we shall not succeed. i wish you good courage, and we look forward to meeting you in the negotiations.
in writing. i took part in the vote for the european ombudsman. although i supported another candidate, i congratulate the irishwoman emily o'reilly on her election and wish her every success in her term of office. mrs o'reilly will be the first woman to hold this post, which is of great interest to the citizens of the union, particularly in respect of their rights. the european ombudsman is responsible for receiving and dealing with complaints from citizens, ngos, associations and businesses about maladministration by the european institutions. it is therefore a key intermediary between civil society actors and european politicians, and aims to strengthen democracy in europe.
in writing. the european ombudsman is an intermediary between citizens and the european authorities. it strengthens citizens' rights while guaranteeing the democratic character of the european union. until now, the post was held by greek nikiforos diamandouros. following the announcement of his retirement, the european parliament organised the election of his replacement. it was emily o'reilly who won with 359 votes in the third round, and i would like to congratulate her and give her a lot of encouragement for taking office. emily o'reilly has been the national ombudsman for her country, ireland, since 2003; it has all the qualities to play its part and to defend the rights of european citizens to the full.
in writing. "a budget of austerity, a budget of the past and a budget for shopkeepers", these were the words i used last february to describe the european council's agreement on the cfp. since then, negotiations between the states and parliament have not really changed the situation. it is clear that the next multiannual financial framework is in no way capable of restoring confidence in european construction to european citizens who are still hard hit by the crises. i regret that under pressure the three main political groups in parliament agreed to this, albeit with conditions to be met by september and the final vote of approval. i voted against the resolution because i cannot support this budget. 1% of european gdp is not enough! in the long term, the european budget should be in the order of 4 or 5% of european gdp. to achieve a policy of sustainable development, a social pact for europe, an ambitious research policy. however, the appropriations are reduced (social policies, research, transport). the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. the first is that the budgetary authority must be able to take account of the needs of the member states.
in writing. i voted for the budget compromise because we needed a framework. thanks to this compromise, we will be able to have a revenue and expenditure review as early as 2016 for implementation in 2017 in order to adapt the european budget to the needs encountered. in the run-up to this review, a procedure for reforming the financing of the european budget will be launched as early as the autumn. in addition, there will be a great deal of flexibility in the management of appropriations, allowing, for example, the youth employment initiative to be financed for the whole period and increased resources for research, erasmus and smes for the first two years. this agreement on the overall framework is the result of long and laborious work by parliamentarians and allows legislative negotiations to continue, in order to now specify the distribution of funds available within each policy.
in writing. despite the efforts of our negotiators, the basis of the financial agreement for 2014-2020 remains the same. they are bad and impose on the union of 28 a budget of the order of that governing a union of 15 at the beginning of the century. agriculture, for example, has seen its budget cut by the equivalent of one year (-14%) and regional policy, which makes europe real in the eyes of our fellow citizens, is losing 8%. i abstained.
in writing. i abstained on the compromise reached on the multiannual financial framework. clear progress has been made, for example, with the increase in funds for the poorest and the flexibility to carry over unused appropriations between years or headings. but not all our demands, those of the europeans, have been met. what i fear most is that the level of ambition is far short of what we need to achieve our objectives and get back to growth. in addition, we still have a number of cfp-related matters currently under discussion in parliament, so we cannot give our final agreement until we have more visibility. finally, the council still limits the possibilities for flexibility to a large extent, which will not allow us to make the best use of our resources. efforts are still needed to reduce unnecessary expenditure and improve efficiency, but these efforts must not be at the expense of europeans.
in writing. on 21 june, heads of state and government agreed on a proposal for a financial framework for the eu 2014-2020. before giving its agreement or disagreement with this new compromise, parliament submitted its comments in a resolution. this agreement has made some progress, notably in increasing funding for erasmus, the fead and policies for growth and smes. the way is also clear for the youth unemployment initiative. but in terms of flexibility, it will be necessary to ensure that the mechanism envisaged actually allows the 908 billion payment appropriations to be used at the end of the period. as regards the revision clause, it is good that there is a timetable. but it remains to be seen whether this is a matter of renegotiation or merely of checking the proper execution. as for the commitments in principle on own resources, they are unfortunately far below parliament's demands and there is a strong fear that they will not actually lead to changes in eu funding in the long term. i therefore expect further progress, clarification and firm commitments from the council, particularly on own resources, before i take a decision on the mff in september.
in writing. i wanted to vote in favour of the political compromise on the multiannual budgetary framework to avoid a deadlock that would have been detrimental to the european union as a whole. the proposed european budget does not meet parliament's initial expectations for the financing of the major common policies up to 2020. however, as this budget is financed by national contributions, it seemed difficult to get more from the member states in a period of restricted public expenditure. a new dynamic has been created with the introduction of more flexible and responsive budgetary management, a clause for the revision of the budgetary framework in 2016 and a procedure for reforming the financing of the community budget. despite the overall reduction, the european budget guarantees a 35% increase in appropriations for future investments (research, large infrastructure networks, smes), funding over seven years of the exceptional programme to help young people find jobs and an additional billion for aid to the poorest, which i welcome.
in writing. the agreement reached on the next multiannual financial framework is not acceptable. i therefore voted for the parts of the text which call for it to be rejected, although i do not share the reasons given. the 960 billion decided by the council several months ago is not increasing, but this is only temporary, since the revision clause becomes mandatory. we will wait until after the elections to puncture the taxpayers even more, or, if your dreams come true, to create an additional european tax that will impoverish them even more. the possibility of transferring unused sums, whether from one year to the next or from one heading to another, is not acceptable: surpluses must be returned to the member states. this 'flexibility' is the definitive end of the common agricultural policy, which has not been a compulsory expenditure since the treaty of lisbon. and it will fund all your clientelist whims, as costly as they are ineffective.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the eu's multiannual financial framework. the vote on the framework itself will not take place until september. i abstained for the following reason: if this resolution can provide some additional guarantees, so much the better, but i have no illusions. in particular, there is no progress on the transition to own resources for the european budget. it is irresponsible to perpetuate a europe without resources, whose policies depend on the goodwill of states less concerned with the general interest than with immediate benefits. i wanted to express my profound disagreement with the way the negotiations were conducted and with the result achieved. i am not going to vote for a budget which so little corresponds to the requirements of a time of crisis.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the result achieved by the member states is very disappointing and will be a blow to european policies. in this context of crisis, a substantial increase in resources was not possible, but they could have been better distributed. in isolation, françois hollande has not been able to defend french interests at european level. the european budget would be capped at 960 billion for the next seven years, compared with a total of 985 billion for the seven years to come. the declines were concentrated in agricultural policy (- 12.5%) and regional policy (- 8%). i have, however, refused to oppose the resolution because there has been progress thanks to the work of the european parliament and my political group. the epp has been given flexibility to transfer unused amounts from one year to the next and a precise and mandatory revision clause. the latter provides that the entire budgetary framework, in terms of both revenue and expenditure, will have to be reviewed as from 2016 for application in 2017 in the light of the economic situation.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework, which was adopted on 27 june. the text recalls first of all that parliament will ratify the mff only if all the payment appropriations for 2013 are honoured and an amending budget for 2013 is adopted swiftly. the agreement of 27 june brings a number of advances in our demands and will allow for greater mobilization for employment policies, especially for young people. this compromise is acceptable, since the present state of the political balance of power has not allowed for more ambitious progress.
in writing. on the sidelines of the european council of eu heads of state and government on 27 june, the presidents of the three institutions (parliament, commission, council of the eu) reached an agreement on the union's budget. in the present context, where countries are being asked to take drastic measures to reduce their public deficits, this agreement, which was confirmed by the european parliament on 3 july, seems to me to provide sufficient guarantees to be acceptable. of course, at the moment, the amounts are not increased. but the chairman of the committee on budgets, alain lamassoure, has obtained the commitment of the member states to review the budget in 2016 in the light of the new economic and budgetary situation after the deep and painful reforms that the states have carried out in recent years. i also note that the member states have taken stock of the scale of unemployment which currently affects 5.5 million young people in europe and have decided to concentrate the €6 billion allocated to 2014 and 2015 and to redistribute €50 million to smes. finally, thanks to the determination of my political group, we have secured an additional 1 000 million for the fund for the most deprived.
in writing. after the rejection of a first draft budget last march, the european parliament succeeded in getting a compromise accepted by the european council (compromises of 27 june) under the terms of four more months of negotiations. this compromise is disappointing in terms of figures, since for the first time in its history the european budget for the next seven years will be reduced. although a revision of this budget is foreseen as early as 2016 with application in 2017, the text provides for a 12% reduction in the budget reserved for the common agricultural policy. after two years of advocating an ambitious farm budget, i could not accept such a reduction. that is why i decided to oppose this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the balance of the irish presidency, which ended with the agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020. after intensive and laborious negotiations with the european commission and especially the council, parliament, led by our colleague from the french delegation to the epp group, alain lamassoure, chairman of the committee on budgets, has reached the least unsatisfactory political agreement possible in view of the economic and budgetary situation. while conceding a slight reduction in the overall multiannual budget, parliament has seen several of its demands met. firstly, we have achieved greater flexibility and flexibility in the european budget, which should allow the breakdown of budget lines, if necessary, from one policy to another, and thus optimise their use. in addition, the 'appointment clause', known as the 'revision clause', was drawn up. this will give the newly elected members of parliament and the new european commission the opportunity in 2016 to rework and adjust this multiannual budget in line with the new economic and social situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement because it introduces more flexibility in the management of the european budget. this is an important point for the optimal use of national contributions to the european budget. this measure should facilitate the financing of policies to promote youth employment, research, the erasmus for all programme and support for smes. the european commission should also present a new budget proposal to the newly elected meps in 2016.
in writing. this joint resolution by the right wing, the liberals and the social democrats endorses the discount agreement negotiated behind parliament's back by its president, mr martin schulz, with mrs merkel. this coup de force largely tramples on the demands voted by parliament in 4 resolutions since 2011. the agreement also ignores the sovereignty of the peoples, since the revision clause planned after the 2014 european elections was emptied of its substance by the heads of state. the agreement is also an economic and social disaster, since it imposes a stronger austerity budget on the eu. the european budget will now represent only 1% of the union's gdp, compared with 1.12% so far. these restrictions will lead to under-funding of european programmes, putting states and local authorities already subject to the absurd remedies of austerity in difficulty. this will jeopardise future priorities such as the relocation and ecological transformation of production, the ecological bifurcation of transport and energy and investment in the maritime economy as the new frontier of human progress. i vote against such a regression, deploring the agreement of the pse with the right wing of the epp to impose such retreats.
in writing. because blocking an agreement on the financial framework would mean burying aid to the most deprived and the youth initiative, our socialist delegation chose responsibility. between the draft agreement of 19 june and that of 27 june, the european socialists achieved many concrete results: the use of unspent money, a youth employment aid programme of eur 8.5 billion, a programme of aid for the poorest were our red lines to be integrated into this budgetary framework. this agreement becomes acceptable to me; of course, if the french socialists were the only ones to decide, it would be of a different nature, starting with the amounts which would be much higher. but the results show what our priorities are, especially since these results are in addition to the guarantees already obtained for the policies of interest to france, in particular: the cap, major projects, research and support for smes. the socialists will continue to fight so that the european elections and those in the member states will give a new face to europe and to reform this breathless system.
in writing. on 13 march 2013, the european parliament rejected in its resolution the draft multiannual financial framework proposed to it. this budget, negotiated by the heads of state and government, was for seven years and paved the way for seven years of austerity. after many negotiations, parliament reached a minimum agreement. the commission is also proposing to set up a european parliament and council committee to examine the implementation of the new financial perspective. thanks to the determination of mrs morin-chartier, the council agreed to increase the eafrd by eur 1 billion. the council also agreed to allocate eur 400 million for future investments, including for youth employment. but in a europe of 28 member states and 500 million people today, these figures are not enough to ensure a truly effective economic policy that will benefit everyone. i cannot vote for a european budget which subjects citizens to several years of lean cows and which is not competitive in the age of globalisation. for these reasons, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. since february 2013, the european parliament has entered into a phase of intensive negotiations with the member states to increase the european budget. in the face of the intransigence of the member states, no significant progress in terms of financial amounts could be found. i believe, however, that the eu's long-term budget does bring real added value through investment policies that stimulate growth. moreover, everyone deplores the 'democratic deficit' in europe, but we are marginalizing the paramount democratic body which is the european parliament! in those circumstances i could not support the resolution which was tabled.
in writing. i have of course voted against this motion for a resolution on the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, that is to say the budget of the european union for the next 7 years. after the cries of outrage last february, when the council cut its budget for the first time in eu history, the european parliament, which for the first time had a real veto, approved the cuts. while the european budget is one of the few tools of the union which allows solidarity policies between the member states, in particular through the structural funds, i regret that the european parliament has fallen asleep and has validated this agreement which will only further push the union into austerity. the consequences of such a decision will unfortunately be felt by all europeans in the years to come. with this vote, we have deliberately turned our backs on all policies of european solidarity. i also regret that the need to respect parliament's legislative powers has not been reaffirmed. this is far from the demands made by parliament in its resolution adopted by a very large majority on 13 march 2013.
in writing. €960 billion budget for 2014-2020: i have taken note of this political agreement, and i choose responsibility by voting 'yes' to the resolution. i did it in the name of the following advances, obtained thanks to the struggle of the socialists: the "youth guarantee" which will benefit young people in regions with an unemployment rate of over 25%, with a budget of 6 billion, of which 3.6 billion euros can be committed as of 2014; a compulsory fund of €2.5 billion for the poorest, and an additional €1 billion for voluntary participation by states; the 2013 budget surplus of €7.3 billion before the summer, to fill a €11 billion gap in payment appropriations. this agreement has thus become acceptable. of course, i would have liked a larger budget, but the socialists are in a very small minority in all three institutions! the priorities set and the guarantees already obtained for the main policies: the cap, large interregional and local projects, research and support for smes, must therefore be taken into account. the commission will present a draft amending budget in the autumn. the european parliament will then vote on the multiannual financial framework, after ensuring that the council has honoured this commitment.
in writing. the budgetary agreement we have just approved is responsible and balanced. we could not hope for an increase in the budget when all the member states are making substantial cuts in their own budgets. but with our determination to get back to growth, we could not accept a drastic reduction in the budget for future investment and solidarity. in the end, the negotiations resulted in adjustments which, although they reduced appropriations, guaranteed funding for the fight against poverty, research, the fight against youth unemployment and investment in infrastructure. so this is a budget which saves the essential instruments for getting out of the crisis, which i voted for with no feeling. this is all the more so as parliament has managed to obtain a mid-term evaluation of the 2014-2020 budget: if the economy were to grow significantly in 2017, the budget could be revised upwards. finally, we have secured guarantees on budgetary flexibility and the creation of own resources, which will make the financing of eu investment projects less dependent on the economic health of the member states, and will facilitate budgetary negotiations in the future.
in writing. the aim of the report is to simplify and speed up the procedure for voting on regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) and thus to reduce the time taken for the adoption of these regulations. what is the role of the unece? it develops harmonised requirements with the aim of eliminating technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties and of establishing high levels of safety and environmental protection. since the decision-making procedure was changed with the adoption of the tfeu and the teu, it became necessary to adapt decision 97/836/ec. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which simplifies and speeds up the procedures for the european commission, acting on behalf of the member states, for voting at the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the role of this body is to harmonize technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties. the rules on wheeled vehicles are converging in europe, but it is important to look at the bigger picture, which is the work that the unece is doing to harmonize international standards among themselves.
in writing. by simplifying the voting procedure for vehicle typeapproval regulations, we will be able to speed up their adoption, which will benefit our businesses and european consumers. this is an advantage for european companies, because this harmonization of procedures will facilitate trade in motor vehicles, and it is therefore an asset for our competitiveness and jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows for the harmonisation of practices in the union concerning wheeled vehicles, leading to the reduction of technical barriers to trade in these vehicles. the text also helps to limit the physical risks and environmental impact of each vehicle. in this respect, the text will enable our fellow citizens to be sure of the general reliability of a vehicle at the time of purchase, while at the same time simplifying the sales process.
in writing. on wednesday i voted in favour of the report on wheeled vehicles and the amendment of decision 97/836/ec. in a europe at the heart of globalisation, trade with third countries is high. it is therefore essential to speed up the integration of international standards on the technical rules for two-wheelers, particularly with regard to type-approval. however, since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the eu has been competent to conclude international agreements. we therefore want to adapt decision 97/836/ec on the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles to these new procedural rules. while facilitating trade in these machines with the rest of the world through common technical standards, parliament also aims to ensure a high level of safety on europe's roads and environmental protection.
in writing. the aim of the report is to simplify and speed up the procedure for voting on regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) and thus to reduce the time taken for the adoption of these regulations. what is the role of the unece? it shall draw up harmonised requirements with the aim of eliminating technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties and of achieving high levels of safety and environmental protection. as the decision-making procedure was changed with the adoption of the tfeu and the teu, it became necessary to adapt decision 2000/125/ec. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which simplifies and speeds up the procedures for the european commission, acting on behalf of the member states, for voting at the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the role of this body is to harmonize technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties. the rules on wheeled vehicles are converging in europe, but it is important to look at the bigger picture, which is the work that the unece is doing to harmonize international standards among themselves.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it allows for the harmonisation of practices in the union concerning wheeled vehicles, leading to the reduction of technical barriers to trade in these vehicles. the text also helps to limit the physical risks and environmental impact of each vehicle. in this respect, the text will enable our fellow citizens to be sure of the general reliability of a vehicle at the time of purchase, while at the same time simplifying the sales process.
in writing. i supported the parliament's report on wheeled vehicles and the amendment of decision 2000/125/ec. the aim of parliament is to speed up the integration of international standards on the technical rules for two-wheelers, particularly with regard to type-approval. however, since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the eu has been competent to conclude international agreements. we want to adapt decision 2000/125/ec on the establishment of global technical regulations for wheeled vehicles to these new procedural rules. while facilitating trade in these machines with the rest of the world through common technical standards, parliament also aims to ensure a high level of safety on europe's roads and environmental protection.
in writing. in may, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. i voted in favour of this mobilisation of eur 750 000 to cover technical assistance to the commission to finance monitoring, information and advice measures to the member states for the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the egf is totally underestimated and underused in france, whereas it could be mobilised, particularly in the context of the many closures of enterprises, to bring workers back into employment. i therefore support the commission's communication mission on this fund.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a key instrument of european solidarity. with the adoption of this text, we are making sure that the commission can fulfil its assistance missions. this is the key to their effective implementation and monitoring, to ensure that the money needed is not only released when member states need it most, but also spent in the fairest and most efficient way possible.
in writing. i supported the draft legislation on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). it was created to support workers who suffer from the negative consequences of globalisation, such as deindustrialisation or relocations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the european commission will thus have sufficient resources to carry out its activities of assistance, advice to the member states, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. this is essential in view of the current economic situation and the record levels of unemployment in the member states. the eu must therefore protect european workers affected by the crisis by facilitating their conversion and by helping managers move into more promising sectors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reform of the provisions on the functioning of olaf, following the compromise signed with the council. the aim of this reform is to increase the efficiency of olaf's investigations and to strengthen cooperation at european level (olaf) and the authorities of the member states. the recent john dalli scandal and the recent annual report of the olaf monitoring committee have raised concerns about olaf. the aim of these reforms is to restore confidence in this central body for fraud control at european level.
in writing. olaf is a central body to ensure the transparency and fair and efficient functioning of the european institutions. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which will make olaf's investigations more efficient and strengthen its cooperation with other anti-fraud bodies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it allows a significant improvement in the way olaf operates. in addition, enhanced cooperation with third countries makes it possible to increase the efficiency of investigations and to combat fraud more effectively. this text also ensures, beyond extended prerogatives for olaf in its investigations, the fundamental rights of the individual and in this way provides guarantees for our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted against the conservative amendments to compromise the necessary adoption of the reform of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) because it was very important to validate the very good compromise reached by the european parliament last december after more than 7 years of negotiations. this reform brings significant progress in terms of transparency and legal clarity and significantly improves the investigative tasks of the institution responsible for protecting the union's financial interests and fighting fraud. first, it offers greater legal certainty and better procedural guarantees for the people involved. secondly, the new regulation strengthens the monitoring of olaf's investigative missions. the director-general will be required to set up a legal control for each investigation; at the same time, the monitoring committee will have wider access to the investigation files to verify the validity and legality of the procedures carried out.
in writing. the dalli case highlighted a lack of transparency in the functioning of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the latter has always refused to disclose the investigation which would have allowed an assessment of the seriousness of the facts, whereas john dalli has, from the outset, maintained his innocence. the publication of the office's annual report has even raised many concerns about the regularity of the investigations conducted against the former maltese commissioner. in order to avoid such a situation, it is now necessary to reform the way olaf operates. that is why i voted for this text, which aims to increase the efficiency of investigations in order to strengthen cooperation between the european bureau and the authorities of the member states and to strengthen its diplomatic control.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. since the 1985 directive, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions concerning certain undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities have not been amended. the 1985 directive, which sets out general principles, has been interpreted differently by the member states, creating different levels of protection in the member states. it was therefore necessary to amend the 1985 directive with regard to, in particular, deposits and remuneration and sanction policies. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted for greater protection for small investors in relation to investment funds, when they take excessive and unnecessary risks with small investors' money. the approach is to empower managers of these funds by encouraging them to take reasonable risks. this proposal is part of the more general framework for reform of the banking system, as the clean-up of the system has become a necessity in the context of the economic crisis.
in writing. with this text we want to protect 'small' investors in particular. our aim is to prevent investment funds from taking excessive risks with european money. to achieve this, strict rules on the limitation of bonuses must be applied, so as not to encourage excessive risk-taking to the detriment of the interests of europeans and the real economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's amendment of the european rules on certain undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits). the absence of strict rules in eu legislation leads to very different approaches from one member state to another, and therefore to very different levels of obligation and responsibility of the fund manager. these national differences have serious consequences, particularly in terms of fraud and conflicts of interest, as evidenced by the madoff case, which cost european investors €1.4 billion. this draft reform of directive 2009/65/ec proposes to establish more stringent rules on the liability of ucits managers. we also want the remuneration policy of these players to be reviewed, in order to reduce excessive risk-taking and bank failures. so we want ucits to serve above all the interests of investors and the real economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this reform of the european union's co2 emissions trading system (ets). indeed, as the price of a tonne of carbon collapses month after month, i felt it was urgent that this policy mechanism should return to its role as a catalyst to reduce co2 emissions and accelerate the development of green technologies.
in writing. this time the principle of 'backloading' was accepted by a majority of meps. that's good news. the european commission will be able to intervene to change the auction calendar. it will only be able to do so once, but the idea of backloading as an emergency measure is accepted, which is the main thing. it is now up to the council to do the same. the aim is indeed to give fresh impetus to our system of trading greenhouse gas emission allowances. with the price of a tonne of co2 approaching zero, this emergency measure should make it possible to concentrate on structural reform of the system. the eu must be at the forefront of the fight against climate change and empower itself to steer development towards a low-carbon economy. let's backload and start on a long-term reform.
in writing. as i did in april, i voted against the backloading proposal because i think that such a measure cannot be justified in the eyes of europeans: at a time when we are going through a difficult economic period, is it really the time to penalise the competitiveness of european companies and citizens by voting for a measure that will raise energy prices? i am afraid that this text will leave us far behind our international competitors, at the expense of our jobs and our ambitions for economic recovery, without any real benefit to the environment.
in writing. the ets was introduced in 2005 with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the market is currently experiencing serious difficulties, as the price of a tonne of carbon is less than 5 euros. it therefore seemed essential to react and vote in favour of this text which will help to save this system, which is the very heart of european policy to combat climate change. contrary to many arguments, this measure will not increase the burden on the industrial sector! it is, on the contrary, promoting the development of an industry that is more environmentally friendly.
in writing. the european commission proposes a text which reveals in the background its mistakes and ideology with disastrous consequences for french and european industry and economy. the commission is also calling on meps to vote on a text which they have already rejected and to vote 'correctly', i.e. as it wishes. the union's desired carbon market is collapsing because it is untenable in an open and unprotected space like europe. european industries are paying the price, facing unfair competition from emerging countries which produce at low cost and have not put up production barriers, and are protecting their industries.
in writing. i am very concerned about the outcome of the vote on the emissions trading system (ets) in plenary today. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. but the freezing of co2 quotas proposed by the european commission will never solve the problems facing the eec, and will instead create new problems in a context of economic crisis and a crisis of confidence of europeans towards the union. by setting a 'floor' price for carbon, the european commission is intervening in a market system. this attitude is contrary to the spirit and principle of the text adopted under the french presidency of the european union with nicolas sarkozy. in fact, back-loading may not raise co2 prices sufficiently and therefore miss its target! the european commission's proposal will inevitably encourage a flight of investment abroad where these rules do not apply. the challenge to this difficult-to-negotiate balance would have serious repercussions.
in writing. the ets is a symbol of the eu's climate policy, and is particularly effective in terms of sustainable development. however, the quota market is now in a critical situation, faced with the slowdown in economic activity. the number of allowances put on the market is greater than demand, which has a dramatic effect on the price per tonne, which has fallen from €30 at the beginning of the system to about €3 today. the system must not be abandoned at the risk of renationalising climate policy, but must be reformed structurally so that it remains the cornerstone of climate policy. i voted in favour of this because it provides for a freeze on the auctioning of certain co2 licences in order to encourage companies to invest in low-carbon innovation. this measure will restore the incentive effect of the scheme while avoiding the relocation of companies outside the european union, the commission being responsible in advance for measuring the impact of such a freeze on the sectors concerned.
in writing. on wednesday i voted against the report on the timetable for greenhouse gas emission auctions. since 2005, the ets, set up under the common environmental policy, has encouraged eu companies to switch to low-polluting technologies, thanks to a greenhouse gas emission ceiling and a market for buying and selling excess emissions. however, the market is in surplus and the continuing fall in the price of emission credits is not driving economic actors to reduce their carbon footprint. the european commission has therefore proposed to regulate the market by freezing the sale of part of the credits in order to raise their price. i opposed this initiative, which is neither satisfactory nor appropriate to the economic context. i am afraid that this measure will lead to higher energy prices and will put a little more pressure on european companies and individuals. however, the debate is being revived because the commission has to look at a re-design of the european carbon market, which i hope will further promote competitiveness and growth.
in writing. i voted against the new proposals for a freeze on greenhouse gas emission allowances. it considers that this measure would undermine the predictability of a system designed to operate according to market rules. the european commission's intervention would increase the cost of energy for european businesses, which are already struggling with the slowdown in european growth.
in writing. parliament accepts the idea that the commission could change the timetable for auctioning co2 emission allowances to deal with the collapse in prices and the carbon market's failure. this decision would be a short-term illusion to maintain the carbon market under artificial respiration. it's not time to put a shoulder strap on a wooden leg. what is needed is a comprehensive and urgent end to this system. the energy transition and the fight against greenhouse gas emissions cannot be achieved through market mechanisms. green capitalism is a scam. we need strict regulations and european environmental planning. there is no such provision in the text. so things will just keep getting worse. i vote against it.
in writing. the current european system for combating greenhouse gas emissions, based on a european carbon market where 'polluting rights' are sold, is far from effective. for example, it has not achieved the emission reduction targets. worse, it has even helped finance the biggest polluters in europe. this is not acceptable. for these reasons, i have decided to vote against the commission's proposal to clarify the provisions on the timing of the auctioning of emission allowances, because this proposal is to save the system by trying to make it a little less inefficient. this is not the way to reduce european environmental policy. what we need is not a marginal measure but a fundamental reform of this system and ambitious policies to promote the transition to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. the eu's emissions trading system was faced with serious imbalances. the economic crisis has led to a deep and lasting reduction in industrial production. as an indirect consequence, the supply of carbon allowances far outstrips demand, and the price of carbon has fallen to a level that is no longer a deterrent. because of the first rejection of the text at the april plenary, we were forced to make a number of concessions in order to reach an agreement. but we saved the system, and that's the bottom line. two thirds of the revenue will have to be reallocated to eco-innovation and renewable energy, i.e. the value of 600 million allowances out of the 900 million frozen. this revenue will have to be put into a new fund specifically dedicated to these purposes. the ets is returning to its primary function as a stimulus for the development of low-carbon technologies. the system saved, we can now improve it.
in writing. the european commission is proposing to postpone the auctioning of 900 million co2 emission allowances to phase iii of the european trading system in order to artificially inflate the price of carbon emissions. the european commission is not thinking at all about the consequences for european businesses. this measure was adopted by parliament, and i regret it. because this freeze will only allow a small increase in the price of carbon, so it would only be a step towards a real decision on these quotas. the commission must take real decisions if it is to save the carbon market without depriving companies of economic growth! in the face of our foreign competitors, this measure will further damage the competitiveness of our industries, which is already at its lowest. let us stop trying to impose on ourselves standards that no other country in the world imposes on itself! we all want to avoid an ecological catastrophe, and our factories have already invested heavily in energy-saving and less polluting technologies. but we have to set our priorities. let us first try to save our production tool before we try to impose costly new standards on our industry.
in writing. the european union has set up a quota trading system to reduce co2 emissions from european industries, which are responsible for global warming. the crisis has led to a dramatic fall in the price of a tonne of co2 (from eur 30 at the end of 2011 to less than eur 5 at present). i personally voted for a reform of the system so that the price of a tonne of co2 is raised. indeed, a very low price per tonne of co2 will not encourage european industries to innovate in greener and less polluting technologies, which i believe represent the technologies of the future. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. − even if the carbon price is lower than originally envisaged, the european commission should respect the principle of regulatory continuity during this trading period and take account of current economic conditions. the revised proposal for amendments to the directive by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety still allows the european commission to adjust the timetable for auctioning allowances. the report also suggests that the possibility of revising the guidelines on the directive and the carbon leakage criteria should be considered. i therefore vote against this report because the revised proposal still leaves uncertainties about the future of the eu emissions trading system (ets) and threatens the future of local manufacturing companies. as already emphasised above, i believe that the commission should be more cautious with such measures, taking a closer look at how the uncertainties regarding the quota auction schedule will affect european producers, including latvian companies that export their production to third countries. the commission's intention, by delaying the trading of allowances, to artificially price co2 allowances on the market is an ill-conceived proposal to reduce harmful emissions into the air. at a time when we need to think about how to get out of economic stagnation, postponing quota trading would further limit the recovery of production and put jobs at risk.
in writing. this report deals with the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system (ges) and more particularly with the auction calendar, also known as the 'carbon market', and the resale of emission allowances on the financial markets. it does not call into question this system, which could at least be better structured to force industrialists to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, but which has also proved ineffective in reducing emissions, as many civil society organisations have explained and contrary to what is maintained in this report. but above all, this report is only a re-edition. it was referred back to committee following the april plenary session. the commission's mini-measures were rejected under pressure from the industrial lobby. it merely leaves the commission the opportunity to make proposals by the end of 2013 to improve the system after 2020. i therefore voted against this text because i cannot support this ubex approach, which ignores the challenges of combating climate change.
in writing. the commission proposes to artificially increase the polluting allowances purchased by our industries on the carbon market, in order to accelerate their transition to cleaner energy and reduce co2 emissions. i opposed it because, although on paper it seems to be a good measure, in practice it does not take account of the current economic situation and leads to the suffocation of our companies by increasing their energy bills. the fall in the price of a tonne of carbon is not due to an imbalance in this market but simply reflects the economic recession into which most eu economies are falling. as our companies produce less, they emit and consume significantly less carbon, and the price of carbon automatically falls. there is no doubt that when growth picks up again, the price of carbon will follow. the only way to raise the price of the carbon quota is to re-industrialize europe and make our companies more competitive! and there could be no worse signal than the abrupt reduction in available carbon allowances. they need predictability, not a rigged market!
in writing. due to health crises such as the h1n1 epidemic and the icelandic volcanic cloud, it is crucial to put in place measures to protect european citizens from serious cross-border health threats. to this end, a strengthened role for the health security committee will be established for better european coordination. in addition, states will have the possibility of participating in procedures for joint procurement of vaccines, for example. in addition, the eu's scope for action will be extended (now possible for an infectious threat, this scope may include chemical and environmental health threats). in view of these facts, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. as a medical doctor, i could not but endorse this text which proposes to improve the eu's capacity to deal with cross-border threats by setting up an early warning system by decreeing a health emergency at european level in the event of a crisis. the vaccine procurement system will be facilitated to enable the eu to mobilise the necessary vaccines in the event of a pandemic. the text follows the crisis around the h1n1 virus, which had been very badly managed at european level and the member states were left to deal with their national situations alone. eu action should therefore be more coordinated and swift for possible future health crises.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to increase the eu's response capacity in the event of a health disaster with a cross-border dimension and potentially harmful consequences for public health. i welcome the lessons learned from past mistakes in crisis management. the report thus emphasises the importance of a coherent and coordinated communication strategy in the event of a crisis. the question of the independence and transparency of the experts on whom the 'early warning system' is based is also a priority, which was not always the case. i also support the recommendations in the report which call for a better definition of the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control and for greater cooperation with the who. these measures will make it possible to pool resources and improve synergies between the different decision-making levels.
in writing. i support the ambition of this text, which will enable us to better protect europeans against communicable diseases throughout our territory. in times of crisis, we need to strengthen our cooperation, and this requires above all fluid communication. the text introduces an early warning system to enable a rapid and coordinated response by all the countries concerned: we have learned the lessons of previous crises. the key is early prevention and effective treatment by improving coordination of drug procurement.
in writing. recent health crises such as the coronavirus, the 2011 e. coli outbreak and the 2009 h1n1 influenza have highlighted the limitations of health threat management mechanisms within the eu. the new european regulation will enable the responsible authorities in each member state to react more rapidly and in a coordinated manner in the event of a serious health threat. until now, some european countries could not afford certain medicines, whose prices rose sharply during a health crisis. the new rules will also allow countries to buy medicines and vaccines together, reducing their costs. the establishment of a european early warning system is also a step in the right direction: it will speed up the availability of medicines.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which establishes a european emergency code and emergency measures to deal with crossborder diseases. when the h1n1 influenza outbreak occurred in 2009, european policies showed their limits. it seems more necessary than ever that the european union should have the tools to react quickly to the various cross-border diseases in order to ensure better protection of european citizens and their health.
in writing. i have given my full support to this report by my colleague gilles pargneaux because it should make it possible to remedy effectively the weaknesses of our health systems when faced with serious crossborder threats such as those revealed by the h1n1 influenza or e. coli bacteria. the text provides for the creation of a legal basis for the coordination of the purchase of vaccines or medicines in europe; it will allow the eu to trigger vaccine production on its own, eventually allowing faster vaccination in case of an emergency. i also support the introduction of the concept of 'health emergency', the obligation of mutual information and consultation between member states and the european commission, the strengthening of the role of the health safety committee and the creation of a legal basis for the coordination of vaccine and medicines purchases. i believe that these decisions will enable us to be better equipped to deal with health crises in the future and to prevent as many victims as possible.
in writing. the european union has already experienced cross-border health crises, such as the 2011 outbreak of escherichia coli infections or the 2009 h1n1 influenza pandemic, which had considerable consequences. in order to better manage the emergence of similar crises in the future, it is necessary for the european union to strengthen its alert and response system. i therefore voted for this text because it goes in that direction. it provides for a reinforcement of the mechanism which will allow for faster coordination and reaction at european level. to this end, it establishes an early warning system, facilitates the common purchase of vaccines and makes it possible to declare a health emergency at european level in the event of crises.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on serious crossborder threats to health. the aim of the european parliamentarians is to ensure better anticipation and more effective management of pandemics affecting the european continent, such as the coronavirus and the e. (2011) or h1n1 (2009) epidemics. now, thanks to an early warning system, the 'health emergency' can be recognised at european level. the eu and its member states will thus be able to react more quickly and coordinate their actions, for example by buying vaccines and medicines together.
in writing. the european union will show real added value in the fight against pandemics with the adoption of this text. member states will be able to buy vaccines and medicines together, reducing their price, instead of competing with each other. the text introduces the possibility of declaring a european public health emergency in order to speed up the provision of medicines. the rules governing the independence of experts also need to be strengthened.
in writing. in the case of 'serious crossborder threats to health', whatever their nature, i believe it is important to have a coordinated response between eu member states but also, more broadly, with third countries and international organisations. the pargneaux report provides important elements to avoid the risks of conflicts of interest and excessive autonomy of the commission in the area of serious cross-border threats to health. it adds to the consideration of zoonotic risk and improves the coordination of institutional communication and the protection of personal data. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. there are now many national and community mechanisms for preventing and responding to health crises, but these different systems are poorly coordinated and ill-suited to the international dimension of most threats. as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have been working, and we have been working, on this for almost two years. we have managed to strike a balance between the intergovernmental and the community dimension, which is rare in a sensitive subject such as public health. the greatest success of this decision is undoubtedly the creation of a legal basis for the coordination of the purchase of vaccines or medicines in europe. this decision will make access to vaccines more equitable as they will be available at fairer prices, a welcome development, especially for smaller member states, which simply could not afford to pay the exorbitant prices charged during recent pandemics. with this decision, which will be implemented in the coming weeks, we europeans will have done our job, we are convinced, to provide better protection for the 508 million europeans.
in writing. in recent years, the european union has experienced several successive crises linked to serious cross-border threats to the health of citizens: an outbreak of escherichia coli infections in 2011, a volcanic ash cloud in 2010 and the h1n1 influenza pandemic in 2009. these crises revealed malfunctions - for example, during the influenza a (h1n1) pandemic, member states competing with each other to obtain vaccines that were only available in limited quantities - highlighting the need for faster eu-wide coordination and response. that is the meaning of this text, and i support it. we are introducing a procedure which will enable member states to buy medicines together, rather than launching separate calls for tenders. this is without doubt the most important point in the text. we are also introducing the possibility of recognising a european 'health emergency' in order to speed up the provision of medicines needed to combat the crisis. we also insist on the independence and transparency of the experts involved in the system. this seems to me to be particularly crucial.
in writing. the financial transaction tax has become the archetype of the european sea snake. the crisis of neo-capitalism has left a mark on the minds of our citizens who now demand that we finally learn from past failures. unfortunately, the politicians in power today seem to be content with mere words. this is simply unacceptable. i believe that we should extend this enhanced cooperation to all the member states and that we should not open the pandora's box of the increasing number of exemptions. while austerity is applied with great intransigence, the financial world cannot remain outside all regulations and immune to the minimum duty of solidarity.
in writing. while member states are introducing new forms of taxation of the financial sector (special levies or a tax on the financial sector), it was decided to introduce a financial transaction tax in order to ensure that state initiatives do not lead to a fragmentation of the internal market in financial services. the idea of the report is that the financial sector contributes to recovering the costs of the crisis and that it is subject to a fair tax (compared to other economic sectors). the report also aims to re-connect financial institutions to the idea of risk. the report also calls for more market regulation to prevent future crises. the crisis and its aftermath should make us aware of the risks involved in financial activities in global markets. in order to protect itself or at least to mitigate the effects of a future crisis, the european union must have the appropriate tools, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of introducing a financial transaction tax in 11 voluntary states at 0.1% on stock and bond transactions and 0.01% on derivatives transactions. the european parliament laid the foundations for this tax, and it is now up to the council to organise this enhanced cooperation. the basic idea of this text is to tax more highly speculative financial instruments (shares, bonds, derivatives) and less highly speculative activities (pension funds and smes). this approach seemed to me the most fair, since it protects small investors and smes.
in writing. despite the reluctance of some states, and after 12 years of persistence, the green light has finally been given to the enhanced cooperation of 11 countries to introduce a financial transaction tax (ftt): austria, belgium, estonia, france, germany, greece, italy, portugal, slovakia, slovenia and spain. while it is important to take the time to define the modalities and details of the application of this tax, it is also necessary to send a strong political signal by reaffirming parliament's support for the ftt. the ttf will eventually have to cover a wide range of financial instruments such as shares, bonds or derivatives, but be careful not to affect market operations involving smes. if this tax is to be effective and enable funds to be raised on the financial markets and speculation to be combated, we must take care to preserve the development of the real economy. in the meantime, this tax is a good signal to the world, because the goal is still to reach an international agreement. the moralization of finance must indeed become a shared objective to prevent the crisis we experienced in 2008 and which continues to produce adverse effects on our economies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which envisages the creation of a european tax on financial transactions. as europe has been facing one of the greatest economic crises in its history, it is important to guard against the possibility of a repeat of this scenario. the introduction of such a tax will bring in new european revenues while ensuring economic viability. the tax is designed to penalise excessive risk-taking and will help to limit excessive speculation.
in writing. despite deep doubts, i voted in favour of the financial transaction tax. the increase in exemptions, although legitimate, leads to the tax being imposed mainly on companies, to the detriment of growth. in tax matters, a broad base and low rates are better. but taxation of the financial sector in proportion to its place in the economy remains necessary. the ep is only consulted. he's not a co-legislator. the council to reach a solution which is both fair from a tax point of view and positive for the real economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my greek colleague, anni podimata, which gives greater ambition and scope to the future financial transaction tax. this very good text rightly calls for the scope of the ftt to be extended to cover a greater number of financial products, notably derivatives and pension funds. i am glad that the financial transaction tax has now been agreed by consensus in the european parliament and that the hard work of the socialists and democrats has borne fruit. the idea of making finance pay for the damage it has caused is not only fair and legitimate but also essential to hold financial markets accountable and better prevent predatory behaviour. it is now necessary for the council and the 11 member states concerned to speed up the negotiations and deliver on their commitment to bring the financial transaction tax into force as soon as possible, as early as next year.
in writing. i supported parliament in favour of the implementation of enhanced cooperation in the field of the financial transaction tax. eleven member states (germany, austria, belgium, spain, estonia, france, greece, italy, portugal, slovakia and slovenia) have decided to introduce a tax on shares and bonds of 0.1% and 0.01% for derivatives. while the most risky speculative operations may be taxed more heavily by the states parties, this agreement limits the increase in charges for the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, the real economic lungs of europe. the european union thus has a new resource of its own and is increasing its budget without depending on the goodwill of national governments.
in writing. the proposal for enhanced cooperation between 11 eu member states is an important first step in the area of the financial transaction tax. this should apply mainly to the riskiest speculative investments.
in writing. the tax had two main objectives: to increase the eu budget and to reduce speculation. the first objective will not be met, not only because of the low amounts involved (eur 30 billion per year) but also because the budget will not increase in proportion to the tax, which will replace the funds already allocated by the member states. the second objective is also limited: the basic level of this tax (0.1% and 0.01%) is too low to discourage speculation: the united kingdom has a tax of 0.5% on all transactions of buying or selling british shares in the world, which does not prevent it from attracting all kinds of speculative capital. the commission is also proposing to reduce the rates for pension funds to 0.05% (0.005% for derivatives) until 2016, as well as for investors in sovereign bonds and certain types of derivatives. i'm sorry about the setbacks. nevertheless, i vote in favour of measuring the progress made since my proposal for a financial transaction tax in the senate in 1999.
in writing. this text concerns the enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax that eleven member states of the european union, including france, wish to establish. while i regret that some countries have blocked the application of this tax to all eu member states, this decision is nevertheless an important first step in the fight against financial speculation and towards a fairer tax system. it is high time that european countries regulate their financial markets and adopt measures in the interests of european citizens rather than a financial sphere disconnected from reality. i therefore supported the report. i regret, however, that the measures adopted are still far too timid: pension funds, for example, are exempt from this tax. there is still a long way to go before there is any real regulation of international finance.
in writing. because financial speculation is partly responsible for the crisis we are experiencing, finance must pay for the damage it causes. this is the objective of the enhanced cooperation on ftt that eleven member states - including france - want to introduce: to combat speculation while creating a new budgetary resource. i am proud that the socialists have won the battle for a broad base: the pension funds will not be safe! because europe is playing with its credibility, it is now crucial that the council introduce ftt as soon as possible.
in writing. this tax is crucial. nicolas sarkozy was the first to propose it at the g20 level, and since then a lot of pedagogical work has been done. it was time for europe to act. its aim is to prevent financial transactions from undermining the efficiency of financial markets and to secure the financial system. at the same time, it would make it possible to ensure that financial markets contribute to public finances in a fair and substantial way. europe would be at the forefront, as such a tax has never been introduced at regional level.
in writing. finally, a small step towards the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the champions of tax dumping, luxembourg and great britain in the lead, have opposed it with all their might. eleven member states (belgium, germany, france, estonia, spain, greece, italy, austria, portugal, slovenia and slovakia) have therefore decided to establish the ftt by applying the enhanced cooperation procedure for the first time in tax matters. i would have liked to see the proposal include pension funds in its scope or to see the proposed rates (0.1% for equity and bond swaps and 0.01% for financial derivatives) be more ambitious. but while the gue/ngl was the first to defend the tobin tax in the european parliament, we considered that an embryo tax was better than no tax at all. i voted for this resolution.
in writing. because financial speculation is partly responsible for the crisis we are experiencing, finance must take responsibility for the damage it causes. the new proposal for a council directive to implement the financial transaction tax (ftt) on the basis of enhanced cooperation between 11 countries, including france, is based on two main lines: implementation on 1 january 2014 and the extension of the base to all financial products, including pension funds. i welcome this: for us socialists, this is the culmination of a long struggle which began with the drafting of a report last march calling for the creation of a special commission on the financial, economic and social crisis. the fight against speculation and the creation of new budgetary resources would be a great step forward, indispensable for european identity and the necessary solidarity between peoples. it is now crucial that the council introduce ftt as soon as possible.
in writing. the financial sector has been the trigger for the crisis we are experiencing. it is therefore only natural that this economic sector, which is again recording impressive profits, should be put to work to pay for the broken pots. this tax will bring in tens of billions of euros each year, which can be paid directly to the eu budget, which is itself 94% reinjected into the real economy. it is therefore useful and necessary for the member states to commit themselves to making it an eu resource. now, for this system to be effective, as this resolution calls for, it must involve as many member states as possible, and i regret that the united kingdom is trying to protect the city instead of learning from the financial crisis. by increasing the fees on each transaction involving shares, bonds, or derivatives, this tax would allow listed companies to better guard against speculators and stabilize their shareholders in the long run. this initiative would therefore by no means kill finance as some claim, but would, on the contrary, avoid speculative bubbles which always end up bursting and, in the end, burdening european taxpayers.
in writing. i voted in favour of latvia adopting our european currency on 1 january 2014. the commission had given its approval and the council gave its political support. although latvia still has some work to do to strengthen the structure of economic governance and to reduce its shadow economy, we wanted to encourage and welcome its efforts by allowing it to adopt our single currency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which welcomes latvia's adoption of the euro on 1 january 2014. the text demonstrates that, after a considerable effort by the latvian authorities to overcome a severe economic crisis, the country has succeeded in complying with the maastricht criteria for membership of the eurozone. this report does not fail to mention the latest observations of the ecb on the state of latvia in its 2013 convergence report and i also consider as essential the need to continue on the path of fiscal consolidation as well as institutional reforms, to further strengthen the credibility of the country.
in writing. the euro is being criticised by some populists who pretend it will never leave our borders. but joining the euro area is a plus for those still outside. latvia is making a commendable effort.
in writing. i have nothing against latvia, quite the contrary. the government of this country is no doubt looking forward to abandoning its national currency soon, probably feeling that it is completing its european 'standardisation'. i wonder, however, what the latvian people think today, since they will not be consulted on the subject. the lat, it seems to me, has been the symbol of freedom twice, in 1922 and again in 1990. its disappearance will be the dawn of a new slavery, fiscal and economic, under the yoke of brussels. the efforts of the latvians to regain some competitiveness will be quickly destroyed in the currency carcan of the euro. i cannot in good conscience welcome the fact that a friendly country is joining the unenviable club of the world's least dynamic economies, which are rapidly disintegrating socially. i voted against it.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has not spared latvia in terms of poverty, employment and demographic trends. the latvian state has nevertheless redoubled its efforts to overcome this unprecedented crisis in its history. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that latvia deserves to join the euro area on 1 january 2014. however, this entry should not be the end of latvia's efforts. i therefore agree with this opinion when it states that the state must continue its reforms, strengthen its economic governance structures and reduce its shadow economy. the text calls in particular on the latvian government to address structural gaps in the labour market and to reduce poverty and wage inequalities.
in writing. i supported the parliament's resolution on latvia's adoption of the euro on 1 january 2014. the baltic republic has made remarkable efforts both to meet the eu's convergence criteria and to overcome the economic and financial crisis. therefore, we consider latvia to be ready to join the euro area. however, we called on the future 18th member to continue the pace of reforms, in particular to reduce poverty and increase wage inequality or to address structural unemployment in its labour market.
in writing. some are selling us the death of the euro, and beyond that of the whole of europe. the reality is different. the euro certainly has its merits, and we can legitimately ask questions about the way it is managed. but the euro is still attractive, and some countries are asking to join the eurozone. this is the case for latvia, which will join on 1 january 2014. however, we must be careful not to repeat the mistakes of the past and to ensure that the countries meet the criteria for membership. latvia is a good student of this and will certainly be the european country with the highest growth this year.
in writing. i voted against this report which endorsed latvia's entry into the euro area on 1 january 2014. the report says that latvia's efforts to join the eurozone should be welcomed. we all know what that means. with a public deficit of 1.2% and a public debt of 43.2% of gdp, latvia is a good student of austerity, while unemployment is 15%. it is not because we voted against this report that we are against latvia's entry into the euro zone (it is not for us to decide that, by the way), but rather against the consequences of this accession for its people. moreover, the report modestly mentions the "weak to moderate support for the euro" of the latvian population - two thirds are against it! they are understandable when we look at the current situation in the euro area.
in writing. i am naturally in favour of the introduction of measures at european level to protect the lives of europeans on the roads: too many accidents still occur which could be avoided, in particular by improving emergency services. i voted in favour of one article in the text which expressed our concern that several countries had increased speed limits on their motorways and i regret that it was not adopted. the speed limit is a crucial tool for saving lives: we cannot let our guard down.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this text aimed at europeanising the policy to combat road safety. the death toll on our roads is still a scourge that we must combat, but it is the member states that must be held responsible, pointing the finger at inadequate road infrastructure for example. i believe that the road safety tools should be left in the hands of the member states, so that governments can adopt the measures that are most appropriate for their territory and most suited to the behaviour of their population. the balance must be struck between prevention, obligation and repression, and it seems illusory to rely on just one of these instruments to reduce the number of victims. while it is now time to correct habits and adapt infrastructure in our territories, a europeanisation of road safety policy does not seem appropriate. it is essential to stop generalizing and to respond to locally identified needs in order to see a real decline in accidents on our roads.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's motion for a resolution on road safety in europe. the eu needs a comprehensive strategy to combat road accidents, with the aim of significantly reducing the number of serious injuries. we therefore recommend that new european standards be applied to promote the integration of technical progress into vehicle equipment and to promote investment in infrastructure. we also call for better protection for vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians and cyclists, who are the victims of half of all serious accidents in urban areas. finally, national authorities need to improve the efficiency of first aid services, as well as the long-term medical care and rehabilitation of seriously injured people.
in writing. although the number of people killed on european roads fell by 9% in 2012, 73 europeans die on the roads every day. in total, road accidents in 2011 killed more than 30 000 people and injured nearly 1 500 000 in the european union. the commission has therefore launched an eu road safety action programme 2011-2020 with the aim of halving the number of deaths on european roads over the next ten years. i supported this report because it proposes solutions to achieve the objective of reducing the number of serious injuries on european roads and protecting vulnerable road users. for example, pedestrians and cyclists alone account for 50% of all deaths in urban traffic accidents. the european union and the member states must therefore seriously consider enforcing the traffic rules and continue to develop awareness campaigns for drivers. at the same time, there is an urgent need to improve first aid and medical care after accidents.
in writing. like other governments, as the hungarian government is stepping up its commitment to the defence of public and individual freedoms in the country, i wished to abstain on this report.
in writing. despite numerous calls for order in 2011 and 2012, the situation today remains worrying and largely unchanged in hungary: twelve constitutional amendments in less than three years without any consultation of the opposition, the blocking of laws that will be almost impossible to revise for the next majority, self-censorship of the media, suspicious treatment of roma, retrograde definition of the family... it is urgent that the union acts with real firmness to defend the rights of hungarians. we are asking for the powers of the constitutional court to be restored, for the freedom of the press to be respected and, at the very least, for the opposition to be able to participate in the reforms. the union claims to be a model for human rights: it must prove this, even if it is far from obvious, as we have seen with the arrival of prime minister orban in the chamber for a long debate with members. we obviously have diametrically opposed ideas of what democracy is.
in writing. i voted against the report on hungary because i felt that the european parliament exceeded the powers conferred by the european treaties. the situation in hungary has certainly been a cause for concern, and the european parliament should remain attentive to the constitutional reforms put in place by viktor orbán, but he has been receptive to these fears and has changed almost all the points highlighted by the european institutions. i was particularly struck by the extent of the powers granted to the european parliament in this report, including the monitoring of hungary by a few members and the establishment of an election observation mission. these arrangements would set a precedent and are not part of the powers granted to parliament, so i could not tolerate such a departure from the european treaties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the tavares report on the situation of fundamental rights in hungary. i am particularly concerned about the development of the rule of law and i share the strong emphasis on the voluntary measures put forward by the rapporteur. in view of the repeated violations of fundamental rights in this country (freedom of the press, pluralism...) since 2010, i believe that the government of viktor orbán must be held accountable. in this context, the possibility of considering the withdrawal of hungary's voting rights in the council, in accordance with article 7 of the tfeu, does not seem excessive to me. it is also important that the european parliament should be able to monitor developments in the country rather than relying exclusively on outside experts. i therefore support the proposal for regular monitoring of the situation by the european institutions, as referred to in article 85.
in writing. once again, parliament is meddling in hungary's internal affairs to attack the sovereignty of a country which firmly defends its identity and true european values. those who most often and loudest invoke 'european values' and democracy are usually the quickest to flout them. this is also the case with regard to hungary and its present government. under rather vague political and legal pretexts, especially very light ones, it is christian values that are being attacked by the european union, which is furious that the hungarian parliament has defined marriage as the union of a man and a woman, which is a matter of common sense. in the same way, the recognition of the value of human life, from its very beginning, focuses the attacks of european libertarians.
in writing. it may seem surprising that the european institutions are so quick to condemn the hungarian government. the commission's criticisms of the democratic deficit in the new hungarian constitution are a source of laughter coming from this body whose legitimacy is lacking. parliamentarians are ruthless with viktor orbán, whom they accuse of muzzling the opposition in his country. the same members of parliament who yesterday voted to lift the immunity of marine le pen for the mere expression of an opinion on a matter of general interest, while they have always protected their little comrades, even when they were accused of common law crimes! the european union should probably be more cautious in denouncing the violations of freedom of expression in hungary, since several of its member states refused, that very night, the overflight of their territory by a presidential plane suspected of carrying edward snowden. the origin of the attacks on hungary is not to be found in hypothetical violations of fundamental rights, but rather in the fact that hungarians had the courage to go against the mainstream, by voting overwhelmingly for a government that did not have the favor of the brussels bureaucracy.
in writing. i wish to express my deep reservations about the report on hungary adopted on wednesday 3 july. i believe that the european parliament is not just a recording chamber and that it is essential that it can express the will of the people and defend their rights. however, the achievement of these objectives must not allow parliament to become the censor of those states which have had the misfortune of wanting to preserve their national sovereignty and not accepting a standardization of rules and principles. when a parliamentary committee, made up mostly of well-meaning people rather than free-thinkers, arrogates to itself the right to define the constitutional rules of a country, even to the point of dictating to it what the family should mean, i wonder what the basis of this charge is. in the name of what higher right would a non-national parliamentary committee allow itself to monitor the acts and decisions of a sovereign state? i am not saying that hungary is blameless, but we must recognize that efforts have been made and that the european commission's demands have been met. i ask that objectivity be restored at last where the european parliament seems to be preaching expediency.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the excellent report by my colleague, mr rui tavares, on the situation of fundamental rights in hungary and more specifically on the amendments to the constitution by the government of viktor orban. the report calls on the hungarian authorities to withdraw all constitutional amendments deemed to be controversial in order to fully restore the rule of law, respect the independence of the judiciary and guarantee freedom of expression, freedom of the media, freedom of religion, the right to property and respect for minority rights. the adoption of this report is a strong gesture which shows that the european union needs a stronger system of measures against a member state which violates the rules of parliamentarism and the charter of fundamental rights of the union, which is why i voted for its adoption.
in writing. i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in hungary and i regret that, despite the opposition of the whole epp group, parliament followed this very controversial text. the hungarian government has shown cooperation with the union by undertaking to amend the points criticised by the european institutions. the only issue that still poses a problem, according to some meps, is a law restricting political advertising to public media. such a law exists in france, and the european institutions have not objected to it. i also note that in this report parliament is going beyond its powers, in particular by calling for the establishment of an election observation mission in hungary and the establishment of a european agency to monitor the member states. it is essential that the eu and parliament defend our fundamental rights, but we must respect the sovereignty and competence of the member states.
in writing. the current situation in hungary is very worrying: the xenophobic and homophobic climate there is only a pale reflection of the undemocratic deviations of the government and its disregard for the fundamental values enshrined in the treaties and rooted in the european tradition. i therefore supported this report, which denounces this behaviour, which i consider to be profoundly unacceptable. it is not a question of denigrating hungary or even of integrating into the organisation of that state, but of protecting the interests of the citizens of that country, which must find its way back to democracy and the rule of law. and even beyond the strict hungarian question, it is a question of respect for fundamental rights throughout the union. the real challenge for the union is to put in place policy mechanisms to ensure more effectively that fundamental values are respected by all member states.
in writing. several eu member states were severely affected by floods of exceptional magnitude. in the aftermath of the earthquakes in southwestern france, i visited the area and saw the enormous damage caused: damaged infrastructure, destroyed homes, destroyed businesses, destroyed farmland, and destroyed natural and cultural heritage. in the face of these natural disasters, i would first of all like to express my solidarity and support for the regions of europe affected, the people affected and the families of the victims. i also want to commend the efforts of the rescue teams, the states and local authorities to help the affected areas. it is our responsibility to bring european solidarity, particularly through the erdf, the eafrd and, above all, the european union solidarity fund (eusf). in voting for this resolution i am calling on the commission to take steps to ensure that the necessary funds are disbursed as quickly, efficiently and flexibly as possible. but also to propose immediately a new regulation on the eusf, which would allow the countries concerned to pre-finance their reconstruction programmes, and above all to make it a more efficient and flexible instrument, capable of responding to the new challenges linked to climate change.
in writing. i voted for a faster response to help victims of natural disasters, through faster access to emergency funds. the recent floods in germany, austria, hungary, the czech republic and slovakia have shown the need for a more responsive and accessible european solidarity fund (esf) for victims. the esf makes immediate payments to support regional cooperation between member states in the event of crossborder natural disasters. we have decided to simplify the rules governing the operation of the esf so that the sums released reach the disaster areas as soon as the request for aid is made.
in writing. the recent major floods in several european countries are a disaster, and i welcome the european solidarity we have shown in dealing with them. we must continue our commitment to maximize our response to natural disasters, and that requires emergency funds that can be deployed in a timely and targeted manner.
in writing. on rare occasions we have the opportunity to make it clear that europe is not only, as more and more citizens believe, an area of excessive regulations, restrictive measures and administrative burdens, but also an area of rights and solidarity. solidarity is expressed in the support that the european union provides to member states and regions in difficulty, whether economic or as a result of a natural disaster. in recent weeks, central europe and southern france have been severely affected by floods which have caused intolerable human losses. the role of the european union is at stake in these very serious times, because accession is won when the eu is able to demonstrate, by concrete actions and immediate interventions, its indispensable and complementary character to the actions of the states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the recent floods in europe. the eu must provide a faster and more effective response to the victims of these natural disasters, which have caused significant material and human damage. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. the commission must also review the mechanism for allocating these funds so that in the future the victims of such disasters benefit as quickly as possible.
in writing. a major natural disaster has recently occurred in the form of floods which affected a large number of european countries, in particular austria, the czech republic, germany, hungary, poland, slovakia, spain and france. the council and the commission should take all necessary steps to ensure that the european fund provides timely and sufficient financial assistance.
in writing. as we know, a major disaster has recently occurred in the form of floods in particular in austria, the czech republic, germany, hungary, poland, and slovakia, causing deaths and injuries and forcing thousands of people to leave their homes. the areas affected by this disaster must receive assistance from the eu solidarity fund, which was set up specifically to deal with major national disasters. i voted in favour of this resolution in which we first express our sympathy and solidarity with the people of the member states concerned, pay tribute to the victims and offer our condolences to the families. it is also imperative that the funds reach the victims more quickly: the commission must simplify the rules governing the operation of the fund so that in future payments reach the areas affected by disasters as soon as an aid application is submitted. finally, we should not neglect the preventive aspects and the implementation of sustainable land-use planning policies, since the frequency, severity and impact of natural disasters of this type have increased rapidly in recent years in europe, especially as some areas have lost part of their capacity to absorb rainfall.
in writing. in february 2012, a high-level expert group (the liikanen group) was mandated to study potential structural reforms of the european banking sector that could strengthen financial stability and improve system efficiency and consumer protection. the liikanen group argued that structural reforms were needed, including the legal separation of deposit activities from speculative activities. this separation will ensure transparency in banking activities, and better supervision and crisis resolution. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which profoundly reforms european banks. i have endorsed the principle of the personal involvement of the members of the boards of directors of banks in the event of errors and a better separation between the more risky banking activities and the more prudent operations. this proposal is part of the more general framework for reform of the banking system. the cleanup of the system has become a necessity in the context of the economic crisis.
in writing. this is the refutation of those who say that europe is doing nothing to avoid the situation of 2008. it was difficult, it was complex, but it's a breakthrough.
in writing. structural reform of the european union's banking sector is necessary to avoid a repeat of the financial crisis that hit europe in 2007-2008 and which spared no type of bank. there is a real priority to separate deposit banks from market banks, i.e. to create a separation between the activities of banks which are useful for investment and employment, and the speculative activities that banks carry out on their own account. the banks will now have to set up an ad hoc branch and isolate their speculative activities in that branch. the subsidiary, which will have neither the same name nor the same governance as the parent company, will have to be capitalised and financed autonomously. the savings deposits of the depositors will no longer be able to be used to finance the activities of these branches, even if they encounter difficulties.
in writing. i abstained on this text. the banking sector is in need of a major reform and the text contains some good proposals. but i am surprised that after highlighting the role of the glass-steagall act in solving the 1929 crisis and the disastrous consequences of its repeal in 1999 under the clinton administration, the whole report is actually about avoiding the sensible and necessary solution of the actual separation of banking activities. if the legislation being prepared by the commission is in line with what is outlined in the report, then the french government is reassured: its cosmetic reform of the "casino bank" will be euro-compatible. the financial lobby will have won. risky and speculative activities will simply be confined to subsidiaries, and the implicit public guarantee will have been maintained. so we haven't changed much. the big loser, and the big ultimate payer, of any new banking incident - and there will be new ones - will remain the european citizen.
in writing. i abstained on the final vote on this report, which is not balanced on the fundamental issue of the separation of retail banking activities from more risky activities. in advocating unconditional separation of activities, it disregarded the conclusions of the working group chaired by mr liikanen, which favoured separation if the volume of risky activities only represented a significant part of the bank's business. the mccarthy report also ignores the specificity of the continental banking world. by proposing a simplistic view of separation, this report therefore jeopardises the diversity of the european banking model. universal banks are not the primary cause of the crisis, far from it. at the very moment when we expect banks to lend more, it is not wise to disrupt the sector, which could have repercussions on the real economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on structural reform of the european banking sector. this report calls on the european commission to legislate in this area. the new measures advocated in the report will now allow for a real separation of the activities of the financial sector from the day-to-day banking activities of european citizens. the oversized size of this sector and its impact on our real economies has shown its limits, and structural reform is therefore necessary to strengthen the security of european citizens and to regulate the risk-taking of financial institutions.
in writing. the banking sector has played a significant role in the emergence of the current economic and financial crisis. it was then necessary to take action to regulate and supervise banking activities. this is what the european union wants to do, since it has embarked on a major reform of the sector in order to achieve a real banking union. this text, which i voted in favour of, is the final piece of the puzzle, because it sets out the european parliament's priorities for banking reform. the text proposes, in particular, that the most risky activities be separated from the more prudent ones (e.g. loan operations), and that the members of the boards of directors be held personally liable in the event of errors. it also stresses the need to increase competition in the banking sector.
in writing. i supported the report on structural reform of the european union's banking sector. in order to avoid a new banking crisis in europe, parliament has set out its priorities in terms of banking governance, by making the members of the boards of directors personally responsible for the mistakes made. in addition, segregation of high-risk activities is necessary to ensure that loans to firms and households that finance the real economy are maintained.
in writing. this report seems to favour a separation of retail and speculative activities of banks. but he subtly relativizes its effectiveness. the proposed separation scheme is very tentative because the scope of the activities involved is too vague to guarantee a real clean-up of the banking system. no prohibition of the most harmful activities is envisaged. the report does not propose any tool to guarantee the needs of the real economy. as envisaged in this report, banking reform would by no means put an end to the financial cancer that is eating away at the economy. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. the complexity of the banking sector and excessive risk-taking lead to monstrous indebtedness, and are the cause of the financial crisis that has been affecting us for the last 5 years. europe had to be strong in this area to prevent such a crisis from happening again. the banking sector needs to restructure in order to offer more transparency. to this end, the eu proposes key principles for the overhaul of the sector, by strengthening competition and creating a responsible remuneration system that enables the bank to recover effectively. the repeated bailouts between 2008 and 2011 have increased the public debt of the member states, which are now struggling to cope. the resumption of growth in our continent depends on the overhaul of the european banking system. it is now imperative that eu states put in place shared arrangements to manage crisis situations together. we will only get through this with more europe and more solidarity.
in writing. − €1.6 trillion has been allocated to rescue the banking sector since 2007, equivalent to 12.8% of the european union's total gross domestic product. the aid to the banks has significantly increased the debt burden of already large member states. however, banks are still facing problems, especially those that have had to provide assistance. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any evidence that the bank has been able to achieve its objective of maintaining a viable banking sector. i believe that banks need to be more closely linked to the real economy and contribute to its stable and sustainable development. it is also important that banks have a higher level of quality capital as well as higher liquidity reserves. the problems that led to many banking crises could have been avoided by the timely introduction of stricter banking regulatory standards. this is true of excessive risk-taking, insufficient equity and liquidity, excessive use of derivatives, etc. the commission also found that the banks' business lines were not sufficiently diversified, with commercial and investment banks often pursuing similar business models and taking on similar levels of risk. the european parliament resolution on the restructuring of the banking sector sets out the principles on which reforms should be based in order to reduce excessive risk, increase competition and improve governance. the proposed reforms will promote fair and effective competition, which will help to revive the european banking sector, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament's report which takes a position on the report of a high-level group of experts on banking sector reform. while in 2008 everyone agreed that banking reform was essential, the text voted by the european parliament and the expert report are both very weak. the european parliament in this text calls into question the division between deposit and investment banks, and merely calls for the reform of certain banks instead of giving serious guidance on how to regulate and really control the banking system as a whole. it is not surprising that these 'high-level experts', including louis gallois and chaired by erkki liikanen, governor of the central bank of finland and former member of the european commission, are in perfect harmony with the right-wing majority in the european parliament. i therefore voted against this report, which is problematic both in substance and form. the management of the global financial system is not a matter for so-called experts, but is a matter of highly political choices.
in writing. european citizens have paid a heavy price since the economic and financial downturn began. by adopting today an own-initiative report on structural reform of the european union's banking sector, the european parliament has sent a strong signal that the strong financial integration of the european union and the logic of the common market cannot go hand in hand without the creation of a harmonised banking framework that protects consumers. while underlining the vital nature of the ongoing reforms in the european banking sector, this report clearly recognises the need to introduce further reforms in the structure of the sector: reducing excessive risk, ensuring competition, reducing complexity, and limiting porosity in european banks i therefore believe that the separation of the risky speculative activities of banks on the one hand and the activities linked to deposit and credit accounts (essential banking activities for households and businesses) on the other hand, which was voted on today, is not only necessary, it is indispensable. the report adopted recommends a separation in the form of a subsidiary: the separation would then be more operational than legal... the commission must now be persuaded to legislate in this area, so as not to endorse an ambiguity which could lead to inaction in the sector.
in writing. one of the tasks of the member states and the commission is to combat fraud or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. in order to combat tax fraud effectively, it is important to look carefully at the monitoring and control systems put in place by states and to ensure that the data collected by these systems are relevant and reflect reality. it is important to recall that in 2011, 1230 irregularities were detected, with an impact of €404 million. considering that the irregularity rate in 2011 decreased by 37% compared to 2010, does this decrease correspond to an actual decrease in irregularities, or is it a reflection of a sluggish functioning of the control systems? in view of the points made in the report, i voted for the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which presents the most recent information on fraudulent irregularities reported by member states and the progress made by the commission and the member states in putting in place measures which will ensure enhanced protection of the union's financial interests, including the commission's anti-fraud strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which provides valuable information on the protection of the financial interests of the european union in 2011. it is a vital task, which allows us to judge the democratic nature of the functioning of our institutions and our decision-making procedures. i note the significant decrease in irregularities in 2011 and welcome the rapporteur's desire to strengthen olaf's independent position, while criticising the attitude of its current director, particularly in the light of the developments in the dalli case.
in writing. in this period of serious economic and budgetary difficulties, we must put an end to tax fraud and evasion, which undermine our public finances and thus our investments in growth and cohesion. more transparency and more efficiency is what this report is about. to put an end to fraudulent practices, i do think we need to improve our responses in terms of monitoring and sanctions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it highlights fraud (cigarette, tobacco smuggling) which endangers the financial interests of the european union. it shows that the current means of combating fraud are inadequate or insufficient. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against fraud. it is important to remember that counterfeit products are often harmful to health.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud. the european commission shall send a report to the parliament and the council each year on the assessment of the risks of fraud in the use of the union budget and on the measures taken to combat such illegal activities. meps stressed the importance of cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states in tackling this problem. the report also sets out the priorities and areas where the fight against fraud needs to be particularly targeted. this includes the application of the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy and enlargement policy. fraud must be fought because it harms the interests of the union and of european citizens.
in writing. we can regret that member states use different definitions for the same category of crime and that not all collect similar detailed statistics according to common criteria, and that it is therefore not possible to assess the real overall extent of irregularities and fraud in the different member states. the commission should examine the link between the reporting of fraud by member states and the absence of a harmonised criminal law.
in writing. − in the context of the economic crisis, particular attention must be paid to ensuring that the already limited resources are not used up. while the most recent discussions on the next multiannual eu budget for 2014-2020 concern cohesion and agricultural funding, these are also the areas with the highest fraud rates (€204 million and €77 million respectively). in total, eur 321 million is to be recovered in respect of the infringements detected in 2011. moreover, the fraud cases identified do not necessarily reflect the actual extent of the problem. i voted in favour of the resolution on combating fraud, which calls for more work to improve the monitoring and control systems. the development of an efficient e-government is important, as it is a prerequisite for better transparency of public finances. a major problem is also that member states, which are responsible for implementing around 80% of the eu budget, have different definitions of the types of offences. control systems are also different and often quite incomplete. unfortunately, most of the irregularities linked to the use of eu funds are committed directly at member state level. the resolution adopted by the european parliament is an important step towards better monitoring of eu resources. only by making effective use of the eu budget can we implement the necessary measures to create jobs and boost growth.
in writing. it is difficult to speak against the strengthening of the independence and above all the efficiency of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). in 2011, the amount of public funds lost to tax fraud and evasion in the union was estimated at €1 trillion, or €2,000 per european citizen. the average amount of tax lost in europe today is greater than the total amount member states spend on healthcare says the report. while fraudulent activities have decreased compared to 2010, this is probably a sign that the surveillance and control systems in the member states are inadequate. we can see the danger of systematically cutting public spending... the socialists have continually tried to downplay the most critical aspects of the report, particularly in relation to the case of dalli, the deposed commissioner for influence peddling! i voted in favour of this report but abstained on the amendments on the creation of a european customs officers corps and a specific european public prosecutor's office. let us already carry out effective checks in our member states and in collaboration with an effective olaf before we always make good progress in european integration.
in writing. in june 2005, a roadmap for an integrated internal control framework was adopted. this roadmap resulted in the establishment of an action plan to be implemented from 2006. although the commission had undertaken to obtain a positive declaration of assurance, it is clear that this commitment was not fulfilled. this observation can be reinforced in the light of the evidence put forward by the court of auditors, which points out that payments are affected by a significant level of error, whereas the control and surveillance systems are, in the court of auditors' view, only partially effective. it is important that member states cooperate so that, in order to strengthen the confidence of european citizens in the eu institutions, appropriate benefits, severe sanctions or suspension of funding are put in place. in view of the elements put forward in the report, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. in voting for this report, i welcomed the commission's action on the establishment of an integrated internal control framework in the member states. at present, the single control system is not working, the national systems are not sufficiently articulated with each other, so the commission has implemented reforms since the roadmap adopted in 2005. in this text we have proposed corrective measures, including simplification, improvement of control systems and re-design of the programme.
in writing. the purpose of this text is clear: to ensure that europeans' money is used in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, in a transparent, accountable and efficient manner. this is the case for their trust in the national and european institutions, which must cooperate better. it is therefore important, as this text emphasizes, to continue our efforts to continually improve the efficiency of the union's financial management.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft legislation for the effective implementation of the commission's action plan for an integrated control framework. in order to improve the transparency and sound financial management of the eu budget, parliament recommends reforming the control and monitoring systems, in particular to ensure more reliability in performance indicators and statistics at eu level. we also want to increase cooperation between member states and create a system of sanctions, to build a public budget model based on efficiency and respect for taxpayers' money.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on an integrated internal control framework to improve the control of union expenditure and reduce the number of errors attributed to it.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr president, commissioner, i believe that in this case we must avoid hypocrisy. the form of the decision taken by the greek government may be considered to be rapid, if not brutal, but the decision and the conditions for its adoption have been subject to judicial review by the competent greek authorities and, therefore, there can be no question of a breach of the democratic system, since the judges have ruled, sanctioned the method, and the greek government is obliged to take this into account. in substance, the information obtained shows that this television organization, albeit national and public, was a place of administrative and financial problems, and that successive governments, including the socialists, had tried to reform it without success, because of the obvious obstructions of the trade unions, which defended a corporatism that is not a good match in the situation in which greece is currently. so we cannot blame the government for wanting to reorganise this administration - you spoke, mr commissioner, of public administration - as part of the measures being taken to restore financial stability. yes, it is a public administration, but then, if that is the case, let the government take care of organizing it, and if it is a media whose freedom must be protected, let it take care of operating under optimal conditions, not by consuming a lot of public money. so, on the form 'i repeat', democratic principles have been respected. in fact, the greek government is making great efforts today to try to restore financial stability, to put things back on track, to reconstitute an administration - i say reconstitute, but in reality it no longer exists - and therefore it cannot be held responsible. the rest is a national matter and i think we must respect the principle of subsidiarity.
for the greens/efa group madam president, since you don't want to be hypocritical, let's speak the truth. three weeks before the closure, the minister in the samaras government appointed 300 people from his village as secretaries to the ert. so let's not be hypocrites, this is the great reform. you say it was a place of corruption, but this government was involved. then you'll have to be a little more logical. there is no denying that reforms are needed. the debate in greece is between government radio or television and public services. in this respect, yes, there is a real problem. all the political parties have taken over these tvs, like the ortf in the past you know, you're not so young anymore! and now that we need this reform, we still can't let this government cut the power and say, "now it's over, and what am i going to decide? i'm going to decide to put the cousins of the cousins of the cousins of the cousins of the ones i've already named"... no, you can't! this is not serious. we need to reform. there are many journalists and technicians who are willing to work on this reform. we have to try. secondly, mr šefčovič, it is not so simple, because there is pressure from the troika and in this respect mr samaras came up with the idea that it would be the citizens who would pay for television. they pay 4 euros from their electricity bill. so it's not the state. in that case, the samaras government is wrong about everything and really wrong about everything. we must stand in solidarity with those who are fighting for a genuine public television and radio station, not in the service of a government, but in the service of the greek citizens. that is what we must try to restore and we must put an end to this hypocritical policy, as my colleague mr gauzès has said. (applause) the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". look, as far as the right to strike is concerned, it's not for me to decide whether a strike is good or not. but what's interesting about the prime minister's trip, mr. samaras, is that he had four political advisors who were retired; he had his government's trip to china paid for by the ert. so stop telling us stories. second, i'll tell you something. i am not mr hollande's representative, nor am i mrs merkel's representative, and i am not here to speak for mr hollande. i am a member of the european parliament and have nothing to do with these governments. as a member of the european parliament, i speak for the common and general interest of europe, not as a representative of a government. that may be your problem, but it's not mine. i appreciate you asking that question.
madam president, i would like to say, firstly, that i regret the commission's attitude, which has given the impression that it is basically washing its hands of what is happening in greece. i think - doris pack said it very well - that this problem is not just about the greeks and the greek government, but about everyone. it is a decision that is unjust, ill-intentioned and, moreover, stupid, because that is not the way to go about reform. it's actually the exact opposite of what you need to do when you need to reform. that's the first point. secondly, all eyes were on the european union because everyone wondered if this was not a request from the famous troika. i personally think that this should make us think about something. we cannot continue with a troika which is, in essence, completely anonymous. nobody knows who is in the troika, who are the faces. no one among the peoples of europe knows exactly what the troika is saying. the greeks said, "maybe it's because of the troika". but if they knew, if there was no opacity, if there was a new way to reinvent partnership and solidarity, including with countries in difficulty, maybe this wouldn't happen tomorrow. that is what i ask of the commission.
mr president, commissioner, and mr president-in-office, if the united states and the american administration are listening to you, mr minister, i think they are calm. they will be able to continue their espionage operation, because they will consider that europe will definitely remain a political dwarf. are we doomed to be a political dwarf and to hide behind pseudo-technical arguments the fact that we have been subjected to a huge espionage operation and that the united states has humiliated europe for months, for years, and especially with these revelations? as commissioner reding said, the world is watching to see whether we are able to defend our fundamental rights. well, the european parliament fought to defend fundamental rights when it came to the swift agreement; he fought for fundamental rights when it came to the pnr agreement; he fought for fundamental rights when it came to defending cultural exceptionalism. will this parliament fight to defend the european democratic exception? mr president, if you have the ambition to represent the european union, you must defend it with ambition!
mr president, until the intervention of our colleague, mr yannick jadot, i thought the debate was a bit surreal. once again, the press has revealed that the european union is being spied on by the united states. nothing new, except the scope of the revelations and the subjects. even our diplomats, even the council, even us members of parliament, are being spied on by the united states, with the complicity of, in particular, british intelligence services. we know that under the guise of fighting terrorism, thousands, millions of european citizens have been spied on, victims of massive transfers of their personal data. and, mr minister, if you need information, you can ask europol, whose services have given it to us. we are therefore not satisfied with the council's and the commission's reply. the joint resolution is not up to the challenge. we support the transatlantic agreement, we welcome cooperation in the fight against terrorism, but this is what is behind the massive data transfers. we therefore call, and continue to call, for the immediate suspension of negotiations with the united states. yes, we are asking for political asylum for mr. snowden - he has earned it - rather than banning a foreign head of state from flying over the territory on the grounds that mr. snowden may be hiding in the vault. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, like many of you here, i am extremely shocked by what the united states is doing right now. shocked, but still not to be naive either not completely surprised. since echelon, it has been well known - or at least suspected - that the united states has not behaved in a completely decent manner towards the european union. we don't live in a world of buffaloes either! so what can we do? well, we must speed up - as some of you have said - the negotiations on data protection, madam commissioner, on the proposals you have made to us. we need a strong agreement so that we can combat a number of deviations on the part of our american partners. i keep saying "partners", but we have to realize that we have a certain mistrust now of our "friends". i believe that tomorrow the conference of presidents will take a step, namely the creation of a group of inquiry to be able to ascertain what our friends and partners have done. as for the free trade agreement, i must say that we have lived without a free trade agreement up to now. i'm not saying we shouldn't do it, but we could delay the negotiations a little bit, see what barack obama does and says. so far, the white house has said that this matter would be handled by the diplomatic services. but instead of having that task delegated to the diplomatic services, perhaps barack obama could speak to us. here, perhaps not - i'm not naive either - but, in any case, he could send us a message, if not an apology. and as for this free trade agreement, we could postpone the negotiations.
mr president, i think there is only one question that we have to answer about this scandal: does europe decide to exist or does it decide to give up? do we decide to be firm, to be strong, to simply say that what is happening is unacceptable, and we will not accept it, or will we just let it go, as usual? i would like the european institutions to take stock of what is happening. i don't feel like it right now. i didn't hear any pops from mrs. ashton when she saw mr. kerry, and i regret that. i wish i knew what was said in that meeting, it would have been strategic for us to know. i regret that president schulz did not call a representative of the obama administration to this session to explain himself to us. i ask the commission to investigate, as it has the power to do, the extremely serious facts of espionage against our american friends. i say "our friends", because they are our allies. but - and i'll end with this - i think we need a relationship of trust to be able to have diplomatic and trade relations. that trust has now been broken, and that is why i propose that we postpone the opening of our negotiations.
mr president, if the recent announcements we have heard are true, they sound like explosions, especially since they are coming in successive waves of increasingly shocking events. so we are neither naive nor schematic, but this climate of confidence is beginning to develop, and this is reinforced by the lack of response from the american authorities, apart from the proposal to set up this group that you mentioned, madam president. i have two points to make. it will certainly be difficult to rebuild trust if this transatlantic relationship is based on suspicion, and this also leads us to think that what we are learning may be just the tip of the iceberg. the second set of questions that motivates me is precisely the motive for all this. there has been a lot of talk here about the need to balance the protection of privacy and personal data with the fight against terrorism. but once that balance is right, we can actually accept it. except here, the wiretaps aren't really about counterterrorism, except for germany being part of a landmark. and, as a corollary, there are serious doubts about the instruments which have already been negotiated, such as the tftp or the pnr agreement. so we have to draw some clues from all of this. the first, as far as parliament is concerned, is to set up a committee of inquiry and to suspend the negotiations on the free trade agreement with the united states. in the longer term, the aim is to get the deadlock on the data protection regulation lifted and, of course, to raise the awareness of european citizens about the need to protect their privacy.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the rejection of the acta treaty by our parliament, the circumstances of the prism case, beyond reminding us of the need to protect the personal data and privacy of our fellow citizens, give me the opportunity to draw your attention to the resolution of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe of 29 april 2010, which calls on its member states to protect whistleblowers. as you know, it takes courage and determination to give the word. people who do this put themselves and their loved ones at risk. they do so in the name of democracy and values which the union must have at heart to defend. i believe that these citizens must be able to count on european protection. so what is the commission waiting for when it proposes a regulation establishing the european whistleblower status? what are we waiting for? what are our member states waiting for to grant edward snowden political asylum? there is a political dimension to the response that the european union must take today, but there is also a human dimension. and we would have everything to gain by welcoming him. it would be a tribute to the values we represent... (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. the spying on european institutions and citizens by the us intelligence agency nsa is absolutely intolerable in its method and scale. if europeans and their institutions are "targets to attack", then three measures must be taken. first, free trade negotiations with the united states must be suspended until the light is on and a public apology is issued by washington. secondly, before any free trade agreement, we now need a us-europe agreement on the protection of personal data of europeans and businesses through large digital networks. thirdly, i believe that edward snowden's act deserves the protection of the european union, which should issue him a european passport and grant him political asylum.
in writing. between the recent revelations by the former nsa consultant and the launch of trade negotiations the following week, this debate comes at a defining moment in our transatlantic relations. a relationship that has been in place for a long time, which has been embodied in several agreements in sensitive areas such as the protection of personal data, and which is now being undermined by allegations which the united states does not clarify, despite our repeated requests. in this context of mistrust, i, like many of my colleagues, call for wisdom: why not wait until the end of the summer before launching trade negotiations? this would be good for our american counterparts, who would be more free to give us reliable answers, but also for the european negotiators, who would thus have the opportunity to take stock of the american commitment to negotiate in a transparent manner.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur on his work. in 2014, the first european elections will be held after the treaty of lisbon, which increased the powers of the european parliament. who knows? in the face of the crisis of confidence in politics in general and in the european institutions in particular, we have a responsibility to restore meaning and interest to the appointment of meps by our fellow citizens. this is the purpose of this report: to increase transparency and to strengthen the european and democratic dimension of this election. we therefore call on the political parties in particular to put forward real european programmes during their campaign and to present their candidates for the presidency of the european commission as soon as possible. our ambition is to democratise and politicise the european institutions and to strengthen the participation of our citizens in elections and in the functioning of europe. the future president of the commission in 2014 must come from this parliament, that is, from the indirect vote of our fellow citizens. the president must be elected on the basis of a programme for europe which he or she has defended and presented in contradictory public debates broadcast throughout europe. he or she. we will re-introduce in the vote tomorrow our demand that gender parity be strictly respected in this election, but also that all european political parties organise primaries to nominate their candidate for the commission. european environmentalists have made this choice and will launch their primaries in the autumn of this year. in 2014, a question arises. will this parliament, like the council, be a parliament of national egos, or an expression of a desire for political renewal, for a europe closer to its citizens? it also depends on us, and above all on us. some of the ingredients in the recipe are in andrew duff's report, which we'll be voting on tomorrow. it is a step, a step towards a more civilised, more political and more democratic europe.
mr president, i would like to thank andrew duff for the work he has done and to say that the issues raised in this report are extremely numerous. among them, the fight against the record abstention rate for the european elections - this abstention which marks the disinterest of citizens towards european issues, because they feel that european decisions escape them. of course, this feeling is reinforced in times of economic crisis, when they experience a difficult social situation. so the challenge is to renew this democracy and to involve citizens more closely. mr duff's report makes recommendations to meet these challenges. i would like to mention a few: for example, better information for citizens in the campaign, campaigns to call for votes in the member states - i would like to add the question of registration on electoral lists, which is sometimes a little neglected - , the questions of the europeanisation of national electoral campaigns, with reference to the european affiliation of political parties, the promotion of european citizen candidates in the member states of which they are not nationals and, in another sense, better anticipation of the appointment of the president of the commission. all of this is obviously going in the right direction, in my view. i would like to conclude with two comments: firstly, i regret that these are only recommendations for the time being, but we shall see how things go. and then i believe, furthermore, that the key is really political debate, and a really active campaign on the ground, which will fuel a return of confidence among our citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all want the digital market to succeed. so i would just like to make three points. the first, commissioner, is that the commission has instruments which it could use better: it is telecommunications regulation. it could have started by using its expertise to identify transnational markets to boost the digital market. i think this is a major tool, which we must absolutely use. secondly, the infrastructure. you ended by talking about telecommunications. we have made a terrible observation: one billion remain in the mechanism for interconnection in europe in order to be able to meet the objective of equitable access throughout the european union. there is no digital market without the possibility of having, in effect, for all our regions, all our municipalities and all our citizens, access to services. finally, my last comment concerns the overall picture. we have a whole series of texts of our own initiative. this resolution shows our parliament's desire to introduce coherence into an overall policy for employment, for the performance of the union, for a genuine market and for consumer protection.
mr president, regardless of the sector of activity, the use of digital solutions in the enterprise is a formidable growth accelerator. even for smes, the integration of new technological tools and uses allows them to react efficiently, quickly and economically. in this respect, i believe that a genuine european cloud computing strategy should be developed, which already corresponds to the third digital age, which makes it possible to get rid of infrastructure and to scale up investment costs by choosing a monthly subscription while guaranteeing continuous updating. but while digital transforms businesses, it also changes the human relationship between employees and customers. so it is not a question of neglecting the human. this is the difficulty that american actors are facing today with their patriot act and the use of surveillance programs like prism. our european laws, on the contrary, protect the integrity and confidentiality of data. this is why we must give preference to local operators, who are governed by our legislation, and therefore design european offers in such a way that they are competitive.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs jean lambert on her report. she is right to point out how austerity policies dangerously degrade access to care, especially for the most vulnerable citizens. we also welcome the consensus that will be reached on this report. but in these circumstances we should push the logic to the limit and demand together that the dismantling of social and human rights in each of our countries be stopped, that the two-pack and the budgetary treaty be stopped: they are organising this austerity, which is anti-humanism. we should have stuck to the european budget, not voted to reduce it, as has been done, in order to obtain the sums needed for the european fund for the most deprived. we cannot vote on texts that hurt people and then produce reports or make fine statements here to see the harm. we must stop treating health as a commodity and therefore exclude it from the framework of competition and debate on the transatlantic market. health should become, for the european parliament, a common good to be defended more than ever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. we have a duty as politicians to stop the spiral of crisis. citizens who lose their jobs, who live with austerity day by day, will inevitably cut back on spending that they consider not essential, and this may unfortunately include health care. our responsibility is to think about the medium and long term. we cannot accept that these potential patients cannot access an adequate health care system, or that unemployed people in their final years lose their health insurance. this whole model of society, built on solidarity through our social security systems, is in danger of collapsing and our social europe is in danger of suffering. the less we do in prevention, the more we do in cure and the more we call on the personal care services, which are already in high demand. in the absence of financial resources, administrative and tax relief for social services of general interest and professional recognition, these personal assistance services cannot develop in sufficient numbers. it is true that the member states are being asked on all sides to make investments in strategic areas: support for smes, revival of growth. but let us remember that we are moving in a social market economy model and that every economic measure has a social impact that must be measured. this is why, in terms of access to care, adequate and continuous training for health professionals is needed, medical and social consultation structures must be developed and investment in telemedicine must be increased to provide care for people in geographically remote areas or to alleviate the medical deserts spreading throughout europe. i do not want parliament to be accused of not helping europe in danger.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who among us has not been confronted with an emergency situation in a foreign country and wondered which emergency number to call? as europeans are increasingly mobile within the union, this puzzle had to be put to an end. 112 is the answer to this situation. in practice, this number can be used to contact emergency services in all eu member states, from spain to finland, poland and the czech republic. it is a free number, which is obviously a considerable advantage when we consider that roaming charges are always a problem for europeans travelling to another member state of the union. 112 is therefore a very concrete project, which greatly facilitates the existence of citizens. this useful initiative for citizens must be communicated less than a year before the european elections. the 112 number should not be used only by european officials working in brussels, who obviously know the number. it would therefore be interesting, commissioner, if the commission were to work on a broad communication strategy, particularly in this summer period, to try to get this no 112 published. this emergency number, in its present form, still needs to be improved. the fact that the telephone operator speaks only some of the languages of the union is a real obstacle to the effectiveness of this emergency link. this kind of situation is also contrary to the principle of multilingualism which is the basis for the functioning of the european union. call tracing can also be improved, as it is estimated that for 6 million calls a year, emergency services lose vital time in locating a caller. sometimes, though, it is human lives that are at stake. there's no time to lose. finally, it is essential not to introduce discrimination with the 112 by ensuring that deaf and mute people, who are full citizens, can also benefit from this emergency service. a few countries have established a system of sms distress messages, but this approach would be useful if it were generalized and systematized. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are in strasbourg. let's just stay there. it's the headquarters of the european union!
in writing. macro-financial assistance (mfa) is granted by the eu to third countries. they shall be limited in time and shall be conditional on the progress made by the third countries concerned in stabilising their public finances. following the conflict between georgia and russia, the eu has committed to providing assistance to georgia of up to eur 500 million. in 2009, the eu granted mfa to georgia (€46 million), enabling it to meet external financing needs for 2009 and 2010. in 2010, georgia applied for additional assistance. in view of the fragile economic situation in georgia, the commission proposed to grant an additional mfa of an amount equivalent to the previous one, namely eur 46 million. however, this aid is conditional. measures must be taken to prevent fraud and other irregularities, structural reforms will have to be undertaken by georgia to make the public financial management system more transparent, more coherent, more accountable), the assistance is put in place for a period of 2 and a half years after the entry into force of the memorandum of understanding. in view of these facts, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of new financing under the eu's macro-financial assistance to enable georgia to correct its balance of payments following the 2008 russia-georgia conflict. in response to its external financing needs following the 2008 crisis, special aid was made available in 2009 and 2010. in view of the fragile economic environment, an additional aid of an amount equivalent to the previous one was proposed.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague vital moreira. this report dealt with a proposal to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on unece regulations on behalf of the union. the aim is to reduce the time taken for the adoption of these acts within the framework of the unece. i can only support such an initiative. the report was adopted by 508 votes in favour, 36 against and 21 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting additional macrofinancial assistance to georgia. we have reached agreement at the assembly on a new budget of 46 million euros for the economic stabilisation of the country and to cover the deficit in its balance of payments. in return, the eu sets out the procedure for using these european funds, so that they best meet the objectives set. this aid is part of the union's external policy, which aims to promote the development of european countries close to the community area. it is in an environment of stability and economic development that the european continent as a whole will remain a central player on the international scene.
in writing. the union's macro-financial assistance appears to be an effective instrument for economic stabilisation and a driver for structural reforms in the countries and territories receiving it. the additional macrofinancial assistance to georgia of eur 46 million is granted half in the form of grants and half in the form of loans and must be governed by the provisions laid down in the text.
in writing. before 16 march 2007, member states had to take measures to comply with the provisions of the council framework decision of 24 february 2005 on the main forms of criminal activity against information systems. while these were not specifically addressed when the framework decision was adopted, new attacks are now the focus of attention. the sale, purchase, import, distribution or making available of tools or devices for the purpose of committing offences will be criminalised, for example. aggravating circumstances will be considered based on the scale of the attacks and whether the attacks were committed by concealing the true identity of the attacker. in addition, it is provided that a mandatory response is provided following a request for assistance. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which provides for stricter sanctions for cybercriminals, better prevention and enhanced police and judicial cooperation in the event of cyberattacks. cybercrime is on the rise in the european union, especially large-scale cyberattacks that cripple important it structures such as the one that hit the european commission in march 2011.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to update european legislation on the protection of information systems against criminal attacks. i welcome the compromise reached, which is very constructive. the introduction of minimum standards of protection and adequate liability will now be required, under penalty of sanction by the member states. cooperation between judicial authorities will also be strengthened in the member states, together with the private sector. i am glad that the attempts by the left to weaken the text were not compromised, because that would have meant a lower level of sanctions, to increase the responsibility of operators and producers, as if they were the only ones to bear the cost of better protection of information systems.
in writing. the financial cost of internet attacks is estimated at €750 billion a year in europe and, according to interpol, 80% of cybercrime cases are linked to organised gangs based in several countries. however, the legislation in the field of cybercrime differs greatly from one member state to another. technological advances also allow criminals to operate anonymously. this allows cybercriminals to make huge profits with little risk. the european union must therefore strengthen police and judicial cooperation in this area. penalties should be tightened for the most serious cyber-attacks, such as the use of "zombie networks" to remotely control computers by infecting them, and for attacks on critical infrastructure, such as nuclear power plants, transport networks and government sites. legal persons, in particular companies, must be held liable for offences committed on their behalf (for example, for hiring a hacker to gain access to a competitor's database).
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it introduces measures to improve european cooperation in criminal justice, while consolidating the existing structure. the text allows for the strengthening of european information systems against cyber threats. the strengthening of the 24/7 contact points network allows the different member states to stay in touch, towards greater cooperation.
in writing. i fully supported the adoption of this directive, which aims to combat large-scale attacks on information systems. the text will, in particular, make it possible to better sanction the production, sale, import, distribution or making available of devices used to commit cyberattacks and also includes aggravating circumstances. it introduces the offence of illegal interception and measures to improve european judicial cooperation. the directive also addresses the need to provide statistical data on cybercrime by making it mandatory for member states and ensuring that an adequate system is in place for the recording, production and provision of statistical data. i support the fact that this directive is aimed primarily at combating those who act with the intention of causing harm, in particular piracy, since the author of the directive is seeking to profit from his action.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague monica hohlmeier. this report focused on the development of a legislative framework to combat attacks (including large-scale attacks) against information systems. it also sought to repeal council framework decision 2005/222/jha. cybercrime is a major problem in europe and worldwide. the european union had to act urgently. i am therefore pleased that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. cybercrime is a new form of crime that the european union is facing. the text, which i voted in favour of, adopts common sanctions against such cyberattacks. it calls for a minimum prison sentence of two years for crimes such as unlawful interception of communications or unlawful interference with data. heavier penalties are provided for attacks on critical infrastructure (nuclear power plants, government networks, for example). the text also facilitates prevention and strengthens police and judicial cooperation in this field.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on attacks against information systems. indeed, cybercrime is growing alongside the booming digital economy. however, the risks posed by these attacks to economic, political and social stability are significant. with this in mind, we have decided to establish a european framework with common and stricter sanctions to punish cybercriminals severely. in addition, in the event of an attack within the eu, member states will have to respond to urgent requests for assistance from the actors concerned within eight hours. we want to increase cooperation between the police and judicial authorities of the eu countries in order to make the fight against cybercrime more effective.
in writing. the report gives priority to sanctions for attacks on information systems. however, punishments, however severe, do not solve the problem of crime. the greatest attention must therefore be paid to the prevention of crime through appropriate education, raising awareness from an early age of potential perpetrators of these offences. prevention, acting in the long term, is ultimately much more effective than repression. i therefore prefer prevention to these repressive logics and i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against this revision of the cybercrime directive which aims to give us the means to fight against attacks on information systems. the agreement reached between the council and parliament did not even allow the few positive measures, notably on prevention, which had been agreed during the negotiations between meps, to be maintained. this revision is in line with the idea of a secure europe which, in the name of fighting crime, systematically and almost exclusively favours repression to the detriment of fundamental rights. the point is not to ignore the problems of cybercrime but to find the right balance. the council's position, which has prevailed, is based on repression and imposes a whole range of mandatory criminal sanctions. many imprecise definitions will extend the scope of the directive to ordinary users and will therefore lead to unacceptable criminalisation of many internet users. perhaps the worst thing is that this directive, which focuses on criminal law, makes only a marginal contribution to improving safety. it is always the same illusion: "strengthening repression is the most effective". all the studies show the opposite, but whatever, it's the display that counts.
mr president, i hear my colleagues, mr hannan, mr tannock and others, say that this is not very serious because all countries are, after all, spying on each other. yes, my dear colleagues, but the problem is that all the countries are resisting. when it happens on american soil or on russian soil, there is a serious reaction from the russians and the americans, not the kind of viscous cowardice that we see from the europeans today. the attitude of the governments of portugal, italy and france yesterday is truly disgraceful. this parliament, which is always talking about political asylum, should obviously give priority to julian assange and edward snowden, who have been our useful informants in this case. instead, one is virtually a recluse, a prisoner, under a ridiculous extradition threat in the ecuadorian embassy in london, the other is still in transit in moscow. the european governments, through their weakness and cowardice, and this parliament, have indeed disgraced themselves in this matter.
in writing. i abstained on the final vote on this resolution because i believe it should have included a request to postpone the opening of trade negotiations between the united states and the european union. i deplore the willingness of a majority of this parliament to negotiate with a partner who is simultaneously conducting totally unacceptable interception of communications between allies.
in writing. i voted unequivocally in favour of this resolution. the european states should have welcomed mr snowden in the best possible way and without delay. in this sense, each european country receiving an asylum application had to respond immediately in a favourable manner. unfortunately, that was not the case. mr. snowden is a champion of fundamental freedoms who deserves to be spared his own fate. europe had a responsibility to acknowledge the merits of this whistleblower who took risks to expose divergences that should never have existed between allies. europe is a political project based on values that can only be enchantments. i therefore regret very sadly and bitterly that my colleagues in the european parliament did not have the reflex to defend the fundamentals of our action.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the us national security agency (nsa) surveillance programme. since the prism affair came to light, the eu must adopt a measured but consistent approach, and i considered that it might be more prudent to be more cautious, to ask the us for explanations before continuing negotiations on the eu-us free trade agreement. the establishment of free trade between two parties implies complete mutual trust, and it seems to me that the tension and uncertainty surrounding the us behaviour are currently preventing sound and calm negotiations.
in writing. relations between the eu and the us must be based on trust and respect for fundamental rights. these principles are now being undermined by the discovery of the prism surveillance programme, which allows the us authorities to access the personal data of european citizens, and the recent scandal of american spying on european institutions. europe must make its voice heard in the united states and say that what is happening is unacceptable and that we will not tolerate it. the commission's setting up of a committee of inquiry into us practices is a step in the right direction. but we must also demand from the us authorities full information on their surveillance programmes. in the meantime, we should postpone our negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment treaty.
in writing. the resolution on the prism case was voted on in plenary on 4 july. it was adopted by 483 votes to 98, with 65 abstentions. i'm sorry for what i did. i wanted to oppose it for several reasons. firstly, this text is full of good sentiments and is of a disconcerting naivety which totally discredits the action of the european institutions on security and intelligence matters. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster. in agreeing with this text, we are not behaving like a great power. we appear weak. we are not credible. more seriously, we are showing the world that we have become mere objects of international relations. we're not in it anymore. - disconcerting naivety
in writing. the existence of prism was made public by edward snowden, a former employee of the us national security agency (nsa), in early june 2013. it denounces the nsa's direct access to data collected by the big web companies. the united states is also accused of having monitored several european union premises, including the headquarters of the european council. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text which calls on the american authorities to provide all the information on these revelations as soon as possible and which also instructs parliament's committee on civil liberties to carry out a thorough study of the programmes in question. i also support this resolution when it calls for, among other things, increased protection for victims of such abuses and stricter provisions on privacy.
in writing. i supported the parliament's resolution on the us spy program prism by the nsa, surveillance agency. we have expressed both our surprise and our disapproval of our american partner in the face of the scale of this system of spying, which is affecting european citizens, the embassies of the member states and the european institutions. data protection and privacy and trusting relationships with our partners are key principles for europeans and we strongly condemn these developments. the commission's civil liberties committee has therefore been asked to carry out a thorough investigation into the interception of european communications in order to uncover the scandal. the commission will publish a report on the impact of this surveillance on the privacy and data protection of eu citizens by the end of the year. it will also make recommendations to prevent such events from happening again in the future.
in writing. the revelations of large-scale spying by the us authorities on millions of european citizens, institutions and businesses are very serious. this is a violation of the fundamental rights and privacy of european citizens. it is important that the european parliament should adopt a resolution condemning these practices. i regret, however, that parliament has not gone further in its resolution, in particular by also calling for the suspension of the negotiations on the free trade agreement between the european union and the united states and by demanding explanations from the north american authorities. i therefore abstained on that vote.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on the european parliament's resolution on what should be called the prism-nsa affair. the european parliament has voted to reject the three amendments calling for the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) to be suspended until the european parliament is informed, depriving the eu of one of the few means of pressuring the us to finally respect the rights of european citizens in relation to their personal data. the eu has already abandoned too many of its principles in this area with the adoption of the swift (banking data) and pnr (air passenger data) agreements with the united states. in reality, the free trade agreement and cooperation with the united states in the fight against terrorism and crime, which is at the root of this widespread surveillance, are far more important to the majority of meps than the protection of the rights of european citizens. the creation of a committee of inquiry in the european parliament does not respond to the urgency of the situation. i also regret the rejection of our amendment to grant asylum to edward snowden. this resolution does not live up to the scandal of this mass surveillance and the threat to our public freedoms.
in writing. ensuring the transparency of elections is essential to enhance citizens' confidence in their institutions. this report sets out the practical arrangements for organising the 2014 european elections. thus, no results will be published before the end of the voting scheduled for sunday, may 25, 2014. the logo of the european political groups will have to appear on the ballot papers. the political groups will have to propose a candidate for the commission presidency within a time limit allowing a european-wide campaign to be carried out. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of new modalities for the 2014 european elections. the candidates will now have to present their political programme in all member states and hold public debates. the aim of this reform is to oblige candidates to declare themselves early enough so that genuine electoral campaigns can be conducted at european level, on european issues, on the programme of european parties. the election of meps is the election with the highest abstention rate, we need to re-create a passion for european issues, to run real campaigns to raise awareness of meps and to curb abstention in european elections.
in writing. i voted in favour of the duff report on improving the 2014 european parliament elections. it contains a number of provisions which will enable parliament to derive full legitimacy from this vote and to make full use of the powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon. the introduction of the logo of the european political parties on the ballot paper, the provision of sufficient advance notice for the candidates for the presidency of the european commission, and the publication of the election results only after the polls have closed in the last member state are all measures which will increase the visibility of the european elections and the fight against abstention. if the new european parliament can thus be credibly strengthened, it will be in a stronger position vis-à-vis the council.
in writing. the 2014 european elections will be the first to be held since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which significantly increased the powers of the european parliament. and many of us want this election to be an opportunity for citizens to take back control of the european project. in this sense, european political parties are a platform and should be involved in the future of the european union, beyond national and local concerns, and in the sole general european interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it clarifies the arrangements for organising the european elections. by introducing greater visibility of votes, the publication of election results, among other things, the text is in line with greater political transparency. the adoption of this text will enable our citizens to be better informed about the various electoral procedures within our institution.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague andrew duff. the report was intended to set the framework for the forthcoming european elections. among many proposals, the report called on political parties to ensure that the names of candidates for the european parliament elections are made public at least six weeks before the elections. it also called on the member states and political parties to promote a greater presence of women on the lists of candidates. the report was adopted by 507 votes in favour, 120 against and 18 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the next european elections are crucial for the appointment of the union's leaders for the next five years. for the first time, the election of meps will strongly influence the future presidency of the european commission. however, practical arrangements are needed if this is to be a genuine democratic success. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which aims to bring europe closer to its citizens through a genuine european campaign. political parties will have to present their candidate to the commission, which will present its programme in all member states and participate in public debates. the text requires that ballot papers mention european and national parties and that citizens know the names of candidates for the european parliament at least six weeks before the elections.
in writing. i approved the report of the constitutional affairs committee, of which i am vice-chairman and in which i was involved, on the 2014 elections to the european parliament. the european elections in may 2014 will be the first to be held since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which has considerably increased the powers of our assembly. for example, in the election of the president of the european commission, the major european political parties will now nominate their candidate for the presidency of the commission, and the european parliament will have to vote for the future president of the european commission. we felt that these candidates should play a leading role in the future european election campaign, in particular by personally presenting their programme in all the member states of the union. we also made several recommendations on the need to carry out information and voting campaigns to curb abstention as much as possible, and we call on national political parties to respect parity, as far as possible, in all the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which proposes measures to make the next european campaign more visible and to bring coherence between the elections of members of the european parliament and the presidency of the european commission. each european party should specify which candidate it supports for the post of president of the european commission. the candidate whose party would win the most seats across the union should be considered first by the heads of state.
in writing. europe is experiencing an unprecedented crisis of euroscepticism. but in the face of the current economic crisis, i am convinced that europe will help us to overcome it. the next european elections are fast approaching and, in order to avoid a very high rate of abstention and a surge of pro-sovereignty parties, it is crucial to improve the procedures. in this respect, our main recommendations are as follows: national political parties shall inform citizens throughout the election campaign of their affiliation to a european political party and of their support for the candidate for president of the commission that they have nominated; european parties nominate their candidate for the presidency of the commission early enough to enable them to campaign for eu-wide elections on eu issues; candidates for the office of president of the commission present their political programme in all member states and organise a series of public debates; the voting ballots mention both national and european political parties. unfortunately, this is only a resolution of parliament, with no legislative effect. i hope, however, that we will be heard!
in writing. i voted against the resolution tabled by my socialist colleagues on european standards for arms exports. political sensitivities have been expressed on such a sensitive subject, and i could not approve this resolution signed by the s&ds and the gue, since it provides for an overly restrictive interpretation of the criteria of the common position of the member states. i have, however, welcomed the motion for a resolution signed by the epp which sets out an acceptable binding legal framework and encourages the implementation of the common position adopted by the member states.
in writing. i supported the joint motion for a resolution (epp, alde, ecr) on european standards for arms exports. the resolution signed by the epp, the ecr and alde was quite satisfactory, since it incorporated the amendments tabled by the epp. the resolution welcomed the adoption by the council in 2008 of a binding legal framework on arms exports. it also sought to encourage harmonisation in the interpretation and implementation of this common position by the member states. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the european union is the second largest arms exporter in the world, just behind the united states. council common position 2008/944/cfsp seeks to regulate this trade by setting out 8 criteria for authorisations for arms exports. while the first four must be respected in all cases, the last four remain at the discretion of member states which do not apply and interpret the 2008 common rules in a uniform manner. the consequence of this free movement is that the transparency of arms exports by each member state is undermined. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which calls on the union to strengthen its policy in this area in order to better control the arms exports of each member state. to this end, it proposed that each state should send the council all the information relating to its exports each year. it also called for the revision of the current criteria and for greater involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments in monitoring the application and implementation of the common rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the plurilateral agreement on services. since the deadlock in the wto negotiations and the importance of the services sector in european gdp, a new impetus was needed to bring new initiatives into the wto framework. with this vote we have authorized the commission, acting on behalf of the european union, to begin the multilateral negotiations. in addition, the exclusion of audiovisual and cultural services is kept outside the scope of the agreement, as is the case in the negotiations of the free trade agreement with the united states.
in writing. the service sector is a driving force in the european economy. the union is thus the world's largest exporter of services, accounting for 28% of global exports of services. the services sector accounts for three quarters of our gdp and employs 68% of the european workforce. the launch of negotiations on a plurilateral agreement on trade in services with 21 other wto member states is an opportunity for the union. while seeking to deepen cooperation in a wide range of services, it is nevertheless appropriate for the union, like the other parties to the agreement, to preserve a number of politically sensitive areas. therefore, in line with the approach taken in the wto general agreement on trade in services (gats), the negotiating mandate provides that the eu will not make commitments with regard to audiovisual services and that the negotiation will preserve public services.
in writing. "negotiations", but how many are there? yes, how many sectoral or general, plurilateral, multilateral or bilateral free trade agreements are there being negotiated between the european union and the united states? this acp agreement, on which we were not consulted before the negotiations were opened, aims to liberalize trade in services between some 20 countries, including the united states, in the same way as the wto general agreement on trade in services, but going further. it is important to remember that the latter opens the way to a kind of monstrous worldwide bolkenstein directive. what will be the link with the transatlantic agreement? what sector or industry, supposedly safeguarded in a highly publicised negotiation, has in fact been sacrificed in the other in a secret way? what are the negotiating bases, the red lines, of this acp? we don't know!
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the multilateral agreement on services. the motion for a resolution did not call into question the exclusion of audiovisual and cultural services from the scope of the agreement. so it was quite satisfactory. i'm glad you did.
in writing. for the eu trade in services is of paramount importance! they account for about three quarters of european gross domestic product and employment. the european states are therefore very interested in entering into negotiations with some 20 other wto members. the agreement should allow for further opening up of services markets but also introduce new rules on trade in services, in particular on public procurement, licensing procedures and access to communications networks. it is important that the eu negotiates in this area. in the long term, the agreement could be integrated into the joint wto agreements, and europe has certain requirements that it had to impose. it was out of the question that audiovisual and cultural services should be included in the negotiations, the fight for cultural exceptionalism has been won and we can welcome that. these negotiations, which are of great importance for european trade, will therefore have to be followed closely.
in writing. i voted in favour of increasing norwegian duties on agricultural products. norway is part of the european economic area and therefore has a mutually beneficial legal framework. but the recent protectionist measures taken by the norwegian government are in breach of the free trade agreement that binds the country to the eu. we have therefore called on the norwegian government to revise the free trade agreement on agricultural products in order to introduce fairer and more justified duties.
in writing. don't count on me to condemn norway's decision to protect its national interests by increasing its customs protections. quite the contrary! this is a healthy reflex which all our countries should emulate. you are shouting that this is a waste, but a more objective reflection would show how limited this measure is, certainly of rather little consequence for the interests of european agriculture and, moreover, compatible with norway's commitments to the wto. but norway has committed the ultimate crime: it has touched the taboo of free trade as conceived by the european union! well, long live the iconoclasts!
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the increase in norwegian duties on agricultural products. the motion for a resolution deplored in particular the measures recently imposed by the norwegian government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the resolution also asked the commission to specify the measures it envisaged to take if the norwegian authorities refused to back down. the proposal was adopted by a very large majority: 587 votes in favour, 48 against and 4 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i supported the parliament's resolution on the increase in norwegian duties on agricultural products. we deplore the protectionist measures introduced by norway (which is not a member of the european union) which imposes excessive taxes on certain agricultural products from the union countries, including cheese, beef and lamb. we call on the authorities to lift these taxes, which are contrary to the trade agreements concluded between the two partners. the first countries to be affected by these acts of protectionism are france, denmark, spain, ireland, italy, the united kingdom and sweden.
in writing. in november 2012, when the eu-norway bilateral eea agreement had just entered into force, norway unilaterally decided to increase customs duties on certain cheeses and meat (from +277 to +429%) and, shortly before, on a variety of hydrangea (+72%). while these measures are in line with wto law, they are contrary to article 10 of the eu-norway bilateral agreement, which provides for reciprocal opening of markets between the partners. for several months now my group has rightly considered these measures to be protectionist and has asked the commission to open negotiations and take all the necessary measures. that is why i supported his request for a question to the european commission with a request for a reply in plenary, as well as this resolution which gives an update on the negotiations and the actions to be considered.
in writing. although outside the european union, norway is a member of the european economic area (eea) and enjoys privileged agreements with the member states. the country has just increased customs duties on imports of certain agricultural products from the european union. the resolution condemns the protectionist measures of norway and calls on the european commission to react firmly. in a frankly doctrinal tone, the eu 'presses the norwegian government and parliament to withdraw these measures' and even calls for further liberalisation of its market, particularly in agricultural matters. the european union is not content to put its member states under its tutelage, but is increasingly seeking to impose its neoliberal policies on all its economic partners and, in particular, on its immediate neighbours. what about the sovereign rights of states? this is unacceptable, especially as these measures are authorised by norway's list of concessions and commitments under the wto. and as one of our amendments points out, agricultural exports from the union to norway have increased by 150% since 2000. i therefore voted for our amendments and against this resolution which praises an ultra-liberal union that teaches lessons.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text to invite the member states and the commission to make the development of the digital single market a top priority and to adopt an ambitious strategy to make this beautiful project a reality on the ground. the idea of the digital single market is to invest in human capital to address skills shortages, by investing in the creation of future jobs with high growth potential, such as the green economy or health sectors. in my constituency, i am working on the establishment of a telemedicine system, which aims to address the shortage of doctors in medical deserts. i therefore strongly support the establishment of the digital single market, so that other local initiatives such as telemedicine can be implemented.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on completing the digital single market. this motion for a resolution contained many points. it stressed in particular that exploiting the single market through the services directive and the digital single market could, according to very serious studies, increase the output of the european economy by eur 800 billion. it also called on the commission to remove as a matter of urgency the remaining obstacles to the digital single market (the overly complex vat legal framework, the need for pan-european access to a secure online payment method, etc.). i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on completing the digital single market. in the digital age, the potential of a single market in this area offers very positive prospects for economic growth and job creation. for example, a 10% increase in broadband in europe would be a gain of one growth point. the same is true for the development of ecommerce, whose 15% share in total trade (currently 5%) would bring an additional 1.7 growth points. we therefore emphasize the need to complete this project, which is being carried out by the french commissioner for the internal market, michel barnier. several draft reports are being prepared in parliament on the completion of the digital single market, in particular on the establishment of electronic invoicing, the reduction of costs for broadband deployment and data protection.
in writing. i hesitated to support this resolution on completing the digital single market: it is a good text overall, but i regret that its paragraph 39, which is enthusiastic about the proposal on the common european sales law, has been retained. in my view, the introduction of this instrument would pose many problems: optionally, this system would be introduced alongside national rights and would subject the same product to several regulations and guarantees. the regulatory framework would also be problematic in its articulation with the consumer rights directive, national rights, and the rome i regulation (to name but a few). i have finally decided to vote in favour of the text, so as not to jeopardise the fruit of a long work carried out on the subject of online commerce within our committee on the internal market and consumer protection. that said, i think it is inappropriate for our assembly to prejudge here, in an own-initiative resolution, the outcome of a controversial vote, of a legislative nature, which will culminate in the coming days in committee (and in a few weeks in plenary), precisely on the establishment or not of a common european sales law.
in writing. i have chosen to vote against the resolution on the commission's statement announcing a regulation on the completion of the digital single market. this resolution could have been an opportunity for the european parliament to put forward an ambitious digital project. at a time when this sector is becoming increasingly important in all areas of everyone's life, it would be essential, beyond words, to promote access for all, in particular through affordable prices. in many areas, especially rural or mountainous areas, access to such services is not always easy. it is therefore essential to ensure equal and universal access to wireless services. the establishment of a reliable infrastructure network is therefore an essential prerequisite. but this resolution does not provide for any of this and is mainly about further liberalising the digital 'market' in the name of completing the single market. we know what is going to happen, and the digital sector will also be subject to "free and undistorted" competition, the consequences of which are unfortunately well known.
in writing. austerity policies have particularly harmful consequences for the health of the most vulnerable among us. one third of greeks no longer have access to social security, and 'disappeared' diseases such as tuberculosis and malaria are returning to the union. 900,000 foreigners no longer have access to free healthcare in spain. it is time to sound the alarm and to confront our governments with the consequences of the very severe austerity measures which, in countries such as greece and spain, are causing intolerable health situations. in this report we call on the member states not to make drastic cuts in social and health spending, but to restore access to health care for all, including migrants. the dismantling of some health services is the least of the concerns. the social emergency in which we find ourselves calls for a social pact for europe which would include guaranteed universal access to certain health services essential for the coverage of basic needs and quality public services (in particular education and training). access to health care is a fundamental right, a guarantee of the future of our societies and our economies.
in writing. we cannot accept that children are no longer vaccinated, that unemployed people who are at the end of their working lives lose their health insurance. it is a whole model of society built on solidarity, through our social security systems, that is in danger of collapsing. if prevention of disease is no longer available to a section of the population, in the medium term it is people who will require more advanced care and who will be the more likely to seek personal assistance services. the latter are already in high demand, but lack of financial resources and professional recognition means that these personal assistance services cannot be developed in sufficient numbers. this is why, in terms of access to care, adequate and continuous training for health professionals must be ensured, structures for medical and social consultation must be developed, and investment in telemedicine must be increased to alleviate the medical deserts spreading throughout europe. i do not want this parliament to be accused of 'not helping europe in danger'.
in writing. the own-initiative report by my colleague jean lambert was adopted by a large majority: 537 votes in favour, 25 against and 65 abstentions. i have, for my part, chosen to abstain on the vote on the final resolution. it is our responsibility to stop the spiral of the crisis and to protect the most deprived. however, in my view, this report merely presents a catalogue of good intentions and denounces them. it offers no truly viable, effective and coherent solution. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. i supported the parliament's text on the impact of the crisis on access to care for vulnerable groups. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. almost a quarter of the european population is now at risk of poverty and exclusion. the health of these people is deteriorating and the disparities in access to care between the rich and the poor are growing. we therefore call on member states to promote investment in social services so that vulnerable groups in particular can receive adequate medical treatment. as such, it is essential that special attention be paid to the disabled, children and the longterm unemployed.
in writing. the issue of health, and in particular access to care, is a fundamental issue which, whatever the circumstances, should not be subject to any restrictions. however, as the report points out, the healthcare sector has not been spared by budgetary austerity measures, significantly affecting access to care for the most vulnerable. i find it appalling that the current political priorities are so contrary to the well-being of citizens. inadequate access to care, due to drastic cuts in health spending, has serious implications for the quality and dignity of human life, which must be avoided. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the impact of the crisis on access to care for vulnerable groups. the elderly, the disabled and those who care for other people with special needs are under increased pressure as a result of the crisis. they are the first victims of cuts in public budgets, increases in contributions and reductions in reimbursements at the very time when people are having to cope with declining incomes, and may be victims of abrupt downgrades. more than ever, this should prompt governments to review their policies and re-prioritize equal rights, including focusing on access to health care for the most vulnerable. with other policies, this sector with a high potential for development and job creation should be the subject of massive investment. the report opposes austerity measures in these sectors and calls for investment in these policies to be maintained; i fully support these recommendations but remain as always sceptical about the reality of their implementation.
in writing. connected tv is synonymous with availability, accessibility, and this is thanks to the convergence of technologies and media. what is the goal? multiple services subject to different rules may be available on the same screen. the crucial question will then be to ensure that offers can be found and that they are accessible. it will be important to assess the extent to which the sma directive will need to be revised to ensure the requirements set out above. in addition, in order to ensure convergence of offers, it will be necessary to determine which regulatory mechanisms will be necessary. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of new rules to adapt to the new challenges posed by new technologies for the audiovisual sector. connected television is television that is connected to the internet in order to provide a set of services to viewers. viewers therefore have very wide access to audiovisual content, and content prices and the share of remuneration paid to search engines had to be regulated to discourage unfair competition and to adapt markets to the new dynamism of the audiovisual sector.
in writing. according to a recent study, by 2015 half of all tv sets sold worldwide will be hybrid tv sets, and by 2017 31% of households will have them. the european union must therefore adapt its legislation to the challenges of a new media landscape. the new regulatory framework must be balanced and favourable, on the one hand, to european audiovisual service providers by promoting the production of and access to european content for european citizens and, on the other hand, to consumers who must be able to benefit from a wide and diversified offer.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague petra kammerevert. this report was about the emergence of connected television. this is disrupting the audiovisual landscape and forcing us to ask ourselves how best to coordinate european and national regulations with the regulatory instruments already in place at european and international level. there was an urgent need to rethink the issues in the audiovisual value chain in the light of technological, usage and market developments. the importance of editorial responsibility in defining the role of the media service provider also needed to be addressed. this report fulfils these objectives. it was adopted by 525 votes to 62, with 24 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. connected tv is the result of the merger of tv and the internet into a single device. the challenges of the internet are clear: availability, accessibility and the ability to find multiple content through the convergence of technologies and media. however, services subject to different rules and with very different levels of regulation will be brought together on the same screen. that is why i voted in favour of this text which proposes that the european commission assess the extent to which the relevant legislation needs to be revised (sma directive, telecommunications package). the text also calls on the commission to reform existing regulatory mechanisms to ensure fair competition between suppliers and a wider range of products for consumers.
in writing. i have approved the parliamentary text on connected tv. in this context of the revolution in new technologies, the phenomenon of convergence between the internet and television, connected television, raises legal problems. eu law must adapt to the modern audiovisual world to encourage the creation of new mechanisms to ensure fair competition between providers of television and hybrid audiovisual services. on the other hand, common rules must be applied to ensure that the diversity of media and opinion, respect for human dignity, the promotion of services for disabled people and the regulation of advertising and its content are protected, both when browsing television channels and on internet services.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on connected television. if this is to be a breakthrough and a real opportunity for the viewer, who will be offered almost unlimited choice of content, it must be regulated and define the role of the media service provider.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on connected tv, which examines the need to adapt the regulatory framework to the changing audiovisual landscape, which is increasingly characterised by a convergence of media and the development of connected terminals. the main thing is to create and access quality content within a broad and diversified audiovisual offer. it will therefore be necessary to examine the extent to which the audiovisual media services directive needs to be revised. several current provisions on the promotion of european works and the protection of the public interest, personal data and minors are essential. as regards advertising, we must keep our head on the quantitative rules: let us avoid turning the offer of tomorrow into a succession of commercial communications in which sponsorship, advertising and product placement are permanently mixed with editorial content. secondly, let us ensure that public service audiovisual media services can be easily found on the platforms. finally, we should point out that our assembly strongly supports the exclusion of audiovisual services from the negotiations on international trade agreements.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by petra kammerevert which regulates the development of connected tv. the television is no longer a simple receiver but interacts with the internet by means of a box or a suitable television set. the report aims in particular to protect privacy (personal data, anonymous use of services, free and informed consent of the user). it takes account of the arrival of new content (on-demand broadcasting, video on demand or online, etc.) and goes beyond the mere obligation to broadcast by adding the obligation to reference it. finally, the influx of online advertising onto tv screens needs to be regulated to ensure that a programme is not distorted by commercial promotions. i do have two regrets, though. the first is that neither the referencing of european content nor that of general interest is favoured. the second is that it is envisaged to liberalize advertising even more, whereas the current european rule of 12 minutes per hour is already very lax. this report is a first step towards a regulation to meet the new challenges of television in the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on connected television, which aims to clarify the regulatory framework to enable audiovisual operators to develop their activities better, while taking into account the cultural and linguistic specificities of each member state. the report stresses the importance of accessibility to all media services, media pluralism and cultural diversity, and calls for a review of advertising rules to protect consumers, particularly minors. i welcome the fact that this report affirms the commitment of the european parliament to the protection of personal data and to respect for the privacy of every citizen, which seems particularly necessary at this time. the question is what the member states will do about it.
in writing. i have approved the amounts for croatia to help it implement its european policies. we have committed eur 655 million and granted eur 374 million in payment appropriations, which do not cover administrative expenditure included in the mff. the acquis communautaire represents a significant set of reforms for a new member state to implement, so it is important to provide them with special funds to help them implement community policies.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague giovanni la via. this report concerned the presentation of draft amending budget no 1 to the general budget for 2013 to provide for the budgetary implications of croatia's accession to the european union as from 1 july 2013. the report was adopted by a very large majority, 559 votes in favour, 25 against and 16 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. on thursday i voted in favour of the draft amending budget for expenditure relating to croatia's accession to the european union. we have allocated additional funds, including eur 655.1 million in commitment appropriations and eur 374 million in payment appropriations, to help croatia bear the cost of joining the community and to ensure the full application of european policies. the success of the integration of a new member state depends in particular on the conditions of the transition. in view of the recommendations of the parliament's working group, this additional assistance is necessary to give croatia its best chance of prospering within the union.
in writing. i have approved the amounts for croatia to help it implement its european policies. the accession of croatia required adaptations to the multiannual financial framework, including a reduction in commitment appropriations and an adjustment of the ceiling for payment appropriations for 2013. the aim of these funds is to help croatia to incorporate the eu acquis into its national reforms.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague reimer böge. this report concerned the amendment of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (iia). the amendment was only to include a phrase in the aiia stating that, exceptionally, in 2008, the emergency aid reserve would be allocated eur 479.218 million to cover the needs of the new rapid response facility to food price increases in developing countries. the report was adopted by 495 votes in favour, 64 against and 14 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the revision of the multiannual financial framework to take account of the expenditure needs arising from croatia's accession to the european union. therefore, a new allocation of the european budget has been decided for the period from 1 july 2013, the date of accession of croatia to the eu, until 31 december 2013. this revision makes it possible to release the funds needed for the implementation of community policies in the new member state. from 1 january next year, the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which took account of croatia's integration, will apply.
in writing. the commission's work programme for 2014 is the commission's roadmap. the first part sets out the commission's priority actions: the question of the eu's own resources, efficient administration, the strengthening of the democratic process of economic governance through the involvement of the european parliament, the flexibility of the multiannual financial framework, etc. the commission then put forward proposals: the creation of a banking union, the fight against tax evasion, the strengthening of the single market and industrial policy to improve competitiveness, the improvement of the transport network and interinstitutional relations. in view of the proposals put forward by the commission, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the epp group's comments on the commission's work programme for 2014. the economic crisis we are currently experiencing shows the need to strengthen democratic control and transparency in the european institutions. we have identified several priorities to put europe back at the centre of the world stage, namely the building of a banking union, the fight against tax fraud, better use of energy resources, cohesion policies and the refocusing of employment on social policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to defend a number of priorities by the end of the current commission's term of office. of course, the first priority is employment, especially for young people. increased investment is therefore essential to strengthen the union's competitiveness, but this will require a budget that is up to the task and can rely on own resources in the longer or shorter term. i also believe that the fight against discrimination must be strengthened as it plays a crucial role in promoting social integration, and that the commission should therefore propose an eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination, ensure that national strategies for roma integration in the member states are developed and implemented effectively, and that the common european asylum system is properly implemented throughout the union, in accordance with the commitment under the treaty. finally, the commission's action must focus on reducing the democratic deficit and putting the interests and voice of our citizens first.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. although the priorities for 2014 are relevant and consistent, i very much regret that a reference to turkey's accession to the european union has been introduced in paragraph 93. moreover, while we are immersed in the 'prism affair', i regret to note that in paragraph 106 parliament very naively recalls the importance of its bilateral agreements with the united states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to underline the need for continuity and a comprehensive approach in the commission's work for 2014. it is imperative to consider the economic and financial crisis affecting the european union. employment must remain a priority for the member states. it is also urgent to deepen our banking union and to fight together against tax havens in order to ensure stability and sustainable growth for our economy. the european union is also evolving in a global context which is becoming increasingly competitive and innovative. the commission stresses the need to pursue a research and innovation policy and to adapt the union to future developments in international trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a rapid restoration of the democratic process. this text reflects our deep concern about the situation in egypt and the role of the army in the current political crisis. we must return power to the people and to democratically elected authorities as soon as possible.
in writing. the egyptian crisis is of grave concern and deserves the full attention of the international community and the european union. and beyond what is happening in the country itself, there is a risk of destabilization in the north african and middle eastern regions that still fail to take ownership of the democratic upsurge of the arab spring of 2011. the eu must do its utmost to help egypt in its democratic transition. this begins with the organisation, without delay, of new free and fair elections. bringing people together as widely as possible is the only way to avoid violence in the future. but the eu must also help the egyptians to revive their economy, to get their growth going again. there will be no democracy without development, and no development without democracy. the exercise of democracy is a long process. it is essential that the egyptians do not lose heart or hope.
in writing. this resolution was adopted by a large majority. i did not take part in the vote on this text. it seemed to me that, in view of the dismissal of the president by the army the night before, it was better to postpone the vote on this resolution and to reconsider it in order to avoid any inappropriate and/or outdated remarks. the situation in egypt is very critical . we have not had time to analyse the latest developments. it was up to parliament to react in a proportionate and informed way. i regret that a majority of members of the european parliament were not aware of this during the vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the situation in egypt. we have expressed our deep concern at the military intervention in the country and the widespread use of violence to maintain order under the interim government of egypt. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules. parliament called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2007-13 and to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2007-13.
in writing. in 2011, the "days of anger" brought together in tahrir square young intellectuals and very poor young people who aspired to more freedom and democracy, and to better living conditions. two years after the revolution, egyptians are disappointed with the policies of president morsi, his authoritarianism. like politics, the egyptian economy is critical, unemployment is high. finally, the president is accused of dividing the population, of imposing radical islamism to the detriment of secular and egyptians of other faiths. faced with this triple failure of politics, economy and society, several million egyptians who had so much hope in 2011 are taking to the streets again to demand the resignation of the president. the protests have resulted in the deaths of around 50 people in clashes between pro and anti-morsi forces. after issuing an ultimatum to the president, the military removed president morsi from power and suspended the constitution. it is important that the democratic transition takes place to unite the country and finally allow egyptians to access democracy, greater freedom and respect for human rights. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i refused to take part in the vote on this resolution on the 'crisis' in egypt. firstly, it was impossible for me to vote on a text presented orally at the last minute on such a sensitive subject which is changing with the passing of time. the situation in egypt is serious. whatever one thinks of the muslim brotherhood, the military overthrew a democratically elected regime, even though the elections were subject to a vote of confidence. so it is a military coup, even if it was supported by popular cheer. i am also sceptical about the real intentions of the army and its willingness to satisfy the demands of the protesters, especially in view of the economic positions of the main military officials. these interests seem to me to be far removed from those of the working people, the poor and the young who are demanding social justice and an improvement in their standard of living. as the egyptian people are suffering the full effects of the disruption of public services, the fall of tourism and the rise of unemployment, and as the majority still live on less than two dollars a day, the priority is to urgently restore democratic order so that the country can finally respond to the concerns of the population.
author. - mr president, in djibouti all political and social dissent is criminalized and effectively outlawed. one subject remains taboo: the rape of women in afghanistan, committed by the military in particular, since the early 1990s. neither the ministry for the promotion of women, nor the political parties, nor even the human rights defenders, who are regularly harassed and arrested, dare to denounce them loudly. in djibouti, as elsewhere in the world, rape is being used as a weapon of war to destroy the identity of communities. never mentioned in the peace agreements of 1994 and 2001, in which only men were at the negotiating table, sexual violence, these war crimes, remain hidden and prevent any real possibility of national reconciliation. the resolution voted by the security council last week, or the one adopted in this house, calls on states to enshrine sexual crimes in their national legislation so that these acts can be prosecuted. but impunity for rapists still reigns in djibouti. the actions to be taken are known. what is lacking is real political will. despite the repression and humiliation, some women have had the courage to complain. often in vain. because the complaints filed, involving mostly soldiers, are dismissed without a follow-up. these women are waiting for our support, to help them bring the perpetrators of these crimes to justice. nothing is more terrible for these women victims than the denial of justice. without justice, no reconstruction will be possible.
author. - mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating myself on the fact that the human rights situation in djibouti is finally the subject of a european parliament resolution. however, the situation in this territory, which has had such difficulty in gaining independence, should be the subject of our continuing attention, since it is catastrophic. it must be said that for some member states, and therefore for the union itself, it is a strategic territory. three military bases are present on its soil: one american, one japanese and, of course, one french - the former colonial power - not to mention powerful german interests. i must confess that when i read in the resolution that military bases on djiboutian territory provide income for the country and ensure its continued growth, my blood just turned. a pension for who? for the ruling dictatorship and its minions? i'm sure you do! for the djiboutian people? let me doubt that. it is one of the poorest countries in the world, with 42 percent of its population living in extreme poverty. the illiteracy rate is dramatic and affects women first. poor djiboutian women, who are subjected to massive genital mutilation! according to ngos, 98 percent of girls today are circumcised or inibulated. and, yes, they are raped, especially by members of the military. unemployment is rampant, particularly among young people. these young people, these women, are the originators of the protest movements that are affecting the country. the elections of february 2013 could have been a hope, and this is the bet that the democratic opposition made by participating in them for the first time in ten years. these elections gave the ruling party a massive victory. the observers on the ground didn't see anything. still, there may be some doubts. the official results for each polling station are still unknown. the key to the elections, however, lies in the results of djibouti city, where three quarters of the population live. since then, the repression of opponents has been carried out with rare violence. the case of sahal ali youssouf, a 24-year-old who died after a night of brutal police torture, is emblematic. another is mohamed ahmed alias jabha, who has been detained since may 2010 without trial or treatment. and daher ahmed farah, the opposition leader, who had the courage to return to his country to lead the democratic struggle, was just imprisoned this week. so, yes, let's get out of our silences! let us help the djiboutians to find a peaceful solution! let us demand the release of all political prisoners and an end to the repression against them.
member of the commission. − mr president, djibouti is an important partner of the eu – a hub of stability in the volatile region of the horn of africa. djibouti’s constructive engagement with the international community in combating piracy in the western indian ocean is highly appreciated. djibouti hosts two major eu csdp missions: eu navfor atalanta and eucap nestor. the european union is a key partner of djibouti. we support the country’s development in energy and water sectors, and we are active in the area of governance. the eu supported djibouti’s cautious but steady approach to electoral and political reform prior to the legislative elections in february 2013. we took it as a token of political maturity and widening of the political space when the united opposition decided to take part in the general election. we also welcomed the overall peaceful manner in which the voting was conducted. however, the high representative/vice-president was concerned about a lack of transparency and serious delays in the publication of the voting results and the detention of members of the opposition. she believes that it is important that djibouti makes further progress towards opening political space and allowing alternative views in order to sustain development and stability. this would be in line with djibouti’s stated attachment to democratic principles, as well as to the rights and freedoms enshrined in national, regional and international instruments relating to human rights and to elections. this is why now, after both the government and representatives of the opposition have announced that they have started a dialogue, we are hopeful that things can be put on the right track. the high representative/vice-president strongly encourages both the government and the forces of the opposition to privilege dialogue over confrontation. she believes that appeasement and a constructive, genuine dialogue of all parties, including civil society, is the right way ahead. after a period of tension, it is now time to go beyond what happened and to work together towards a national consensus on the way forward. the people of djibouti need peace and stability, but they need to achieve this in the context of the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights. the eu is ready to support this process and to work together with everyone in djibouti to help to achieve democracy and equitable sustainable growth.
author. - mr president, bloody clashes are taking place in nigeria, under the leadership of the fanatical group boko haram. we must condemn them, but that must not make us forget the rest. so, nearly 50,000 people are languishing in prisons, most of them without trial, and often for years. a thousand people are on death row, and several executions have taken place in the past week. very recently, a law was passed criminalizing homosexuality. the law provides for ten years in prison for any public display of affection between two people of the same sex and the same penalty for anyone trying to help lgbt people. nigeria is in a dramatic situation where the control of international oil companies and the accompanying corruption are undermining public policy and depriving the people of the benefits that can be derived from the exploitation of national wealth, not to mention the environmental damage. poverty is the breeding ground for radicalisation. boko haram members are mostly young people with no education, no future prospects and witnessing outrageous corruption in africa's leading oil producer. the nigerian government has chosen repression to fight boko haram, and violence is rampant on both sides: assassinations, raids, extortion, rape, and more. it is a vicious circle that is set up at the expense of the population, causing mass emigration to neighbouring countries, which already have their share of problems. it is intolerable, and it is not only by denouncing the ethnic violence that we will help the nigerian people. in this context, one can ask what the 700 million euros that the union has paid to the country since 2009 have been for. yes, the european union has tools. she still has to use them!
mr president, i simply wanted to make a comment on yesterday's minutes, which were distributed to us. we had a political debate on the irish presidency's achievements and the compromise on the agreement on the multiannual financial framework under item 4 of the agenda. but then - i am speaking on the basis of rule 179 - at the time of the votes, that is to say at point 6.2 on voting time, there is a question of a resolution on the balance of the irish presidency, including the agreement on the multiannual financial framework. we voted a resolution - that is the title of the resolution - on a political agreement on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. i wonder if the minutes should be changed and, at the time of the vote, only the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework should be mentioned, without adding the irish presidency's report, which is not dealt with in the resolution. for the purposes of searching the site, it would be clearer if the 'vote' section only mentioned the political agreement on the financial framework, which in its negotiations goes far beyond the irish presidency in the first place and is really very specific in the second.
mr president, commissioner, after all that has been said by my colleagues, i would just like to stress two points. the first is that the greatest possible legal security should be ensured for binational couples in the event of separation or death. it seems to me therefore that judicial intervention should be limited to contentious applications only. the second point i want to make is the difference between gay marriage and heterosexual marriage. the european commission has thought it appropriate to draw up two different texts and instruments, but i believe that, in order to avoid any discrimination, it is necessary that these two texts have the same characteristics, develop in parallel and always be applied together, so that one does not lag behind the other in its application - i am thinking essentially of the one concerning registered partnerships.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mrs antonescu on her tenacity and her remarkable sense of consensus, since it took almost two years and several presidencies to arrive at this very balanced text. we have - as the rapporteur and the commissioner have pointed out - embarked on a major judicial reform since the beginning of this mandate: the right to information, the right to interpretation and translation. now we are preparing to vote tomorrow on access to a lawyer for all citizens of the european union. it is a great step forward towards a europe of justice which i am sure we will remember later. it is a balanced text which guarantees everyone the right to benefit from the expertise of a lawyer to advise and defend him, while taking into account the needs of the investigation so as not to impede all the efforts of the police forces in the service of truth and justice. the role of the lawyer is expanded to ensure a fair trial. the text also does not forget the imperative requirements which may require temporary and limited derogations from the right of access to a lawyer, such as the fight against terrorism and organised crime. this balanced text will thus strengthen justice by guaranteeing effective rights to suspects and accused persons, while allowing for the smooth conduct of investigations in order to ensure justice. however, i regret that this text was not tabled together with a proposal on legal aid. this would have made much more sense to the proposal, while allowing everyone - regardless of their resources - real and not just theoretical access to a lawyer.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the right of access to a lawyer is a step in the right direction. we should welcome this, of course, because it should strengthen the mutual trust of the member states in their respective judicial systems. as has been said, this text has been in the works for over two years, but it will help to ensure that the right to a fair trial becomes a reality. for example, the principle of confidentiality of communications with lawyers is ensured, which is a fundamental point in guaranteeing the effective exercise of the rights of the defence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this right of access to a lawyer can only be fully implemented if it is supplemented by a right to free legal assistance - this has already been mentioned here - because without this provision it could well remain a dead letter. that is why i wanted to call on you, madam president, to come forward with a proposal as soon as possible so that we can move towards more justice, which is still a little too unequal in europe at the moment.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very technical text, but it has economic implications and, i would say, relatively important ethical implications. in the context of the 3x20 programme, we voted in 2008 for the obligation for member states to have 10% of their transport produced from renewable energy sources by 2020. the european parliament had already expressed the wish that the indirect effects of land use change (iluc/casi) could be taken into account, since this is a provision designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the commission was therefore asked to draw up a report. it was based on the ifpri study, and the proposal before us today amends the fuel directive and the renewable energy directive. it has four objectives. firstly, to put an end to a policy which is not sustainable in the long term: that of having to choose, with regard to a food plant, whether to consume it or to make it into a fuel. secondly, to take into account the investments made by the industrialists - with a lot of community aid for the rest - since 2009, in order to develop the so-called first generation agrofuels. thirdly, to ensure that advanced agrofuels - those that can be made from algae, from power-to-gas, from carbon capture - can be widely encouraged in the years ahead. and finally, to make sure that our policy actually has an impact, that the reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are the ones we expect. it is in this context that the commission has put forward a proposal to us and that, following the debates we have had in parliament, we are now arriving at this text. the debate was very difficult because economic interests were extremely present. the report adopted by the committee on the environment was already a compromise report with all the groups, since all the groups had agreed on the basis of a reduction to 5.5 of first generation agrofuels and the inclusion of iluc/casi in the fuel quality directive from 2020 onwards. the report by the committee on the environment went a little further and, in the interests of compromise, i have therefore tried to find a solution for this vote in plenary that would have the support of the majority in parliament. we have reached this point in my group, with my colleague jens rohde, the representative of the itre committee, and i think that the proposal we have put forward is balanced. we are proposing 6% for first generation biofuels, including energy crops. we propose to apply iluc/casi only in the fuel quality directive and not in the sustainability criteria from 2020, with a clause for a methodology revision in 2016 or 2017. i would point out, however, that the ifpri report, which has been the subject of much criticism, much discussion and conflicting reports of studies - often, moreover, from those who have an interest in continuing to develop first generation agrofuels - has nevertheless been corroborated by a study published in july by the commission which shows that the actual data do indeed confirm the results that have been found. we also propose 2.5% for advanced agrofuels, i.e. to set a sub-target, as the itre committee wanted, and 1.5% for electricity. we propose to reduce the use of the multiplier proposed by the commission from two to four, keeping a factor of four only for the most advanced biofuels and a factor of two only for cooking oils and animal fats. finally, we propose to extend the fuel quality directive until 2025 with a target of 9%. it is perhaps less than a number of my colleagues would have wished. it is probably too much for a number of our colleagues in the epp, and i regret that they did not want to reach a compromise before coming to the plenary, but i hope that we can find a majority on the text i have just proposed.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this week we have the opportunity to correct a mistake we have made, a mistake which has seriously damaged the international order in recent years. i am, of course, referring to our desire to limit and contain biofuels. we cannot accept that one of our policies - for the simple reason that we want to achieve the quantified targets we have set ourselves - is starving the people of the poorest countries, is accelerating the dramatic deforestation of developing countries and is accelerating the rise in food prices. this is the result of our policy on biofuels. for all these reasons, i support a text that limits first generation biofuels and that makes a strict distinction between good and bad biofuels, a text that allows the incorporation of the iluc/casi factor into the renewable energy directive. i therefore strongly support the compromise tabled, which allows the limitation of first generation biofuels to 5.5%, while safeguarding the investments made by our companies, giving them time to adapt to the new standards in order to preserve jobs in our territories. international responsibility and securing jobs in our crisis economies must be the two pillars of this legislation, which we are about to vote on. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about indonesia. let us turn to indonesia. palm oil production is growing under pressure from the global demand for biofuels. palm oil plantations now cover 11 million hectares in indonesia and will cover 28 million hectares if no incentive is given by then. this palm oil cultivation has led to massive deforestation and the grabbing of indigenous lands for food crops, all in a climate of violence that is certain to be driven by local law enforcement. this is the difference between them and those who are for this order and this international justice, and who do not want to starve the people.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that already from the start of this debate ms lepage was stressing how technical and complicated this file is, and that is indeed no exaggeration. i also think that we can hear that in the debate – that it invites too many rather different approaches. i must also say on behalf of mr oettinger and myself that, as we have been listening to this debate – an interesting debate with very different views presented – we have remained convinced that the commission’s proposal presents the most balanced compromise between environmental and economic interests. this is because it sends a clear signal to industry on the need to move to advanced biofuels that deliver substantial greenhouse-gas savings while respecting existing investments. in this context, we firmly believe in the need to maintain the limit that conventional biofuels make towards the renewable energy directive targets at current consumption levels. a sub-target for advanced biofuels may be complementary to this approach and improve the final biofuels mix in 2020. however, its application in isolation does not prevent further increase in the consumption of conventional biofuels. more importantly, a sub-target alone does not mitigate the negative environmental impact of conventional biofuels, which is the very reason why, in the existing directive, the commission was requested to come forward with this proposal. i think it was claude turmes and others who mentioned the question of whether we should invest in research into second-generation biofuels and advanced biofuels. of course we should, and that is also a priority in the new mff, as has been mentioned by the commission. but let me be clear. deleting the cap or increasing it to an unsustainable level, as proposed in some of the amendments, will mean that the iluc problem will continue to be largely unaddressed and further damage will take place. i would therefore, on behalf of the commission, ask you to support an ambitious cap in wednesday’s upcoming vote. furthermore, we need to improve transparency and raise awareness of the indirect land-use change impact associated with the biofuels we consume in the eu. this is why the commission maintains the inclusion of iluc factors in member states’ reports under the renewable energy and fuel quality directives. we believe that these values stem from the best available science. however, the commissioners have concerns that some alternative methodologies proposed in amendments submitted to the vote on wednesday and being used to justify the banning of imported biofuels are flawed. the commission is therefore not in a position to accept them. let me also stress that all the measures we introduce should of course be accompanied by suitable grandfathering provisions in order to allow for industry to adjust to the proposed changes. the 20% target for the overall renewable energy share, the 10% transport target and the 6% fuel quality directive target are pillars of our energy and climate package. the commission will therefore oppose any amendments lowering these levels of ambition. in this context, the commission has, for example, just as strong reservations about the need to increase multipliers for the use of renewable electricity by trains. actually, it is hard for us to see the added value in doing so. there is a pressing need to agree on an effective approach to tackle iluc in order to mitigate the environmental impact as well as to provide clear signals to investors. accordingly the commission remains fully available to the parliament and to the council to help achieve progress, with a view to finalising trialogue discussions before the end of the current term. just one final comment. yes, science is developing. of course it always is; it always will be. but we should not use that as an excuse for waiting, for inaction, and thereby continuing something that we already now know is unsustainable. may i just say that our scientific basis is robust and it is the best available science, as requested in the current directive, and recent studies have actually confirmed that the values used by the commission are (1) based on good science and (2) very much in line with the eu’s normal principle – the precautionary principle.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this lively debate. i'll say some pretty simple things. first, we have no right to deny reality. we have no right to deny reality by not recognizing that there is a look/look factor. there is one. we can pretend it doesn't exist, but it does. we cannot deny that our policy has an impact on food prices and on the countries of the south. remember what mr de schutter said very recently in this very house. we cannot deny that we import a lot of palm oil and that the issue is not just european agriculture. we cannot, however, have a false interpretation of the proposals that are being made. proposing to apply the iluc/casi factor only in 2020 for the fuels directive is a goal which, in my view, is not ambitious but, finally, it has the merit of existing , it means no impact before 2020. so all those who are telling us that this will destroy jobs in europe as of tomorrow morning are wrong, because it will not change the existing situation. the average manufacturing rate of first generation biofuels in europe is currently 4.8%. if we put 5%, if we put 5.5% or even 6%, that means that we are sending a signal, but not as strong as we would like, since there is still room for improvement. my dear colleagues, we cannot remain in the situation we are in today. not accepting this minimum compromise because it is a minimum compromise would be a bad move for everyone. a bad blow for first generation agrofuels which are in an unstable situation anyway and will remain so. a bad blow for those who would like to get into advanced agrofuels because they won't have any certainty. a bad blow for the countries of the south because we will continue the behaviour that is ours with its consequences. a bad blow, finally, for our climate change policy since the effects on climate change are not what we expected. i think that the proposal is not flamboyant - i am absolutely convinced of this - but at least it will mark the continuity - i want to emphasise this point - of what was voted in 2008: the european parliament's will to move, after 2020, towards a policy in which there will be no more subsidies for first-generation biofuels. i very much hope that we will have a majority on this text on wednesday. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the lepage report highlights an important point: iluc factors must be included in the sustainability criteria. the potential problems associated with the large-scale exploitation of biofuels are numerous: monoculture, soil degradation, water pollution, deforestation. according to the 2007-2016 oecd/fao agricultural outlook, biofuels are radically changing agricultural markets and driving up global prices for many commodities. the cultivation of maize-based agrofuels not only competes with food production, but also consumes a lot of water: several hundred litres of water for one litre of ethanol. furthermore, according to a study published in the scientific journal critical reviews in plant science, the production of ethanol requires the consumption of six units of energy to produce one unit of ethanol. biofuels are not the miracle answer to the coming energy crisis. to replace all the oil currently used in transport with vegetable oil, the area cultivated in france would have to be tripled and devoted exclusively to oil. biofuels are therefore a political mistake and a major environmental hazard.
in writing. "equal pay for equal work" is one of the founding principles of the european union. it is enshrined in the treaty of rome, but it is still not a reality in the states of the union today. full-time men earn 16% more than women on average in europe. the difference between the two periods of work can be as much as 31%. equality between women and men is far from being achieved, especially at a time when the crisis is threatening the balance of many personal and professional paths. my dear colleagues, we are in 2013, do you not think it is time to redress this injustice? some obstacles are identified: education and guidance, unequal sharing of family responsibilities, gender stereotypes in mentalities. there are laws, why aren't they followed? let's make a european case for equal pay! let's set an example! let us set ourselves ambitious targets: equal pay, real equality, by 2020. let's dream: equal treatment for men and women in all sectors of economic life and at all levels of decision-making in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have just returned from tunisia, where i took part in the launch of the international committee for the truth in the death of chokri belaid. the democratic transition is threatened. unemployment, corruption and terrorism flourish amidst a political impasse. the pressures are particularly on journalists. i am thinking, among others, of tahar ben hassine, the head of a large chain, who has been prosecuted since today for calling for civil disobedience. i am thinking in particular of the presenter soufiane ben farhat, a tireless defender of freedom of expression. threatened and then fired, he went on hunger strike, despite the risks involved. each one must be reinstated and released. the european union cannot remain passive in the face of the rise of intolerance. in line with its new neighbourhood policy, it must step up its support for the democratic transition. first, by promoting a strong and independent tunisian judiciary. secondly, by supporting human rights defenders. finally, by reminding tunisia of its international obligations in the field of rights and freedoms. let 's not let the hopes born of the jasmine revolution fade ... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to warmly congratulate our colleague agustin díaz de mera garcía consuegra today. he said that this result was the result of two and a half years of negotiations, of all his efforts and tenacity to reach agreement on this crucial reform, despite all the pressure and changes of position that had taken place during the negotiations. the result is more than conclusive. this report enables us to better manage our european visa policy. until now, we have not been equipped to react to any new developments following the granting of visa exemption to a third country. we now have a real european policy, since we can react collectively to denounce a third country which would still impose a visa requirement on the nationals of certain member states, even though we exempt it from visas. we can then restore the visa requirement for that state. this principle of reciprocity which we apply is fundamental. it gives meaning to our european border management and makes our common commitment real. we now have an adequate mechanism to temporarily suspend visa exemption from a third country in the event of a rapid and substantial increase in illegal entry into european territory by its nationals or a rejection of an application for readmission of its nationals, or pressure on the asylum system. we cannot be naive. if the short-stay visa exemption is being misused for the benefit of irregular immigration, if it is putting too much pressure on our asylum systems, it is right that we should protect our european citizens and reinstate a visa requirement. the visa exemption is a right which we grant to certain third countries, but it is also a duty, a duty not to misuse this right. (the president interrupts the speaker) this reform therefore allows us to manage our visa policy fairly and realistically in order to prevent any abuse. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, it was necessary to align certain previous regulatory provisions concerning the conservation of fishery resources. i voted in favour of this text which, by means of technical measures for the protection of marine organisms, brings european rules up to date.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to update the division of competences between the commission and the council in the field of technical measures for youth organisations. in order to be more rapid and efficient, the commission will now be responsible for determining the stocks of juveniles of marine organisms available for fishing, technical measures and conditions for the use of fishing gear.
in writing. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, we need to align a set of technical provisions to ensure that measures to protect juveniles of marine organisms in european waters are fully effective. the adoption of this text will enable us to do this in an efficient and reasonable way, by giving the commission the appropriate powers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i support, among other things, the need to align the regulations adopted by the european union with the new rules of the tfeu.
in writing. the amendment to the regulation adopted is intended to adapt the legislation to the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union introduced by the treaty of lisbon. these updates define the areas in which the european commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts to amend or supplement non-essential elements of the regulation, and to adopt implementing acts to implement the regulation. these powers enable the european commission to implement measures quickly and lighten the legislative agenda of the parliament. meps nevertheless retain a power of control over the way the european commission uses its powers. i voted in favour of this text because it was necessary to adapt the regulation to the new rules laid down by the treaties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report adapting the regulation to the changes required by the lisbon treaty. the proposal empowers the commission, for example, to adopt delegated acts and to establish rules on the determination of the percentage of target species caught by several fishing vessels.
in writing. the european parliament adopted on tuesday, 10 september, a report on the protection of certain fishery resources. this report will simplify the possibilities for action to avoid fishing for fry as regards the division of regions into geographical areas, the use of mesh combinations, the determination of the percentage of target species caught by several fishing vessels, the rules on technical descriptions and the method of use of authorised gear which may be attached to the fishing net. the commission should therefore avoid conflicts between member states which are harmful to fishermen by harmonizing legislation in this field. while i am generally reserved about the use of delegated acts by the european commission, which severely limits the scrutiny of the european parliament, the report states that the delegation of power should be limited in time to allow regular evaluations. this procedural loophole preserves the role of parliament in the institutional process without, however, hindering the effectiveness of delegated and implementing acts on issues as important and urgent as those of the conservation of fisheries resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims in particular to establish a clear legal framework for registered partnerships within the european union. it covers the determination of the competent court and the law applicable to registered partnerships and facilitates the circulation of decisions and acts between member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, so that a judicial decision on the property consequences of an international civil partnership couple rendered in one member state can be recognised and enforced in another. it was important to apply the same rules to civil partnerships as to married couples, since they may face the same difficulties when ending their engagement. they will thus have the right to choose the national legislation applicable to their property, provided that they establish a close link with the member state in question.
in writing. there is an increasing number of unions between nationals of member states, whether marriages or partnerships registered with a public authority. today, one in seven marriages in the union involves citizens of more than one member state. the 2010 citizenship of the union report identifying obstacles to the exercise of union rights has established that uncertainty about the property rights of international couples, composed of nationals of two different member states, is a major challenge for europeans in their daily lives. it is therefore necessary to remove the obstacles faced by such international couples. the determination of the competent court and the law applicable in the event of separation or death of one of the spouses and better recognition of decisions between member states will thus contribute to establishing a clearer legal framework, while respecting the property rights of the different member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of clarifying the rules applying to the property effects of registered partnerships in the european union. i am particularly in favour of the possibility for registered partnerships to choose the law applicable to their property effects. however, i appreciate that this report does not oblige member states to recognise such a partnership.
in writing. this is a new development in everyday europe! we have adopted two texts this week to improve the rights of binational couples: more clarity, more simplification of the legal framework governing the relations of these binational couples in the european area. the main and not least advance of this text is that the rights of binational couples are guaranteed, whether they are married or in a civil partnership. another element of these two texts is that the persons concerned (a married couple or a civil partnership) will be able to choose the legislation applicable to their property rights when these two people separate and the marriage or civil partnership is terminated. finally, decisions will be mutually recognised throughout the european union, while respecting the different property rights applied in the member states.
in writing. i have given my full support to this text which will clarify the property rights of almost 16 million international couples living in europe, of whom 650 000 would, every year, face considerable difficulties in finding out which legislation applies to their case and which court has jurisdiction when their marriage or partnership comes to an end. it is essential to put an end to the current legal disparities between the 27 and to encourage the search for the most favourable court (forum shopping), often in favour of the wealthiest spouse. the aim is therefore to remove the legal uncertainty surrounding the property rights of these couples on the basis of clear rules to determine the applicable legislation, the competent court, and to provide rules for the recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions through a single procedure, which i welcome.
in writing. this directive will provide a clear legal framework for the 16 million international couples (of different nationalities and/or living abroad) in the european union. in the event of the death of one of the partners or separation, legal procedures will be simplified and their cost reduced by clarification of the law applicable to their property. the european union will therefore help these couples to avoid a legal "fighter's journey" in an already difficult period for them. the directive also clarifies the legislation governing the effects of registered partnerships on legal relationships between the couple or one of the partners and a third party, for example in the case of a mortgage. in the case of registered partnerships such as pacs, the assets will be subject to the country of registration of the partnership. i voted in favour of this text because international couples must be able to benefit from a clear legal framework and the same rights as other european couples.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports on the regulations on matrimonial property regimes to clarify the legal situation of international couples, couples of different nationalities and/or couples living abroad. the latter face legal difficulties and high procedural costs due to uncertainties regarding the national laws applicable to their property. both texts address this problem by providing consistent rules for determining the court with jurisdiction and the applicable legislation.
in writing. - this regulation seeks to solve the legal difficulties encountered by couples living in 'registered partnerships', the european equivalent of the french pacs, when they are nationals of different member states. the definition of partnerships is neutral and open (including de facto partnerships between homosexual couples). of the 211 000 registered partnerships, 41 000 are in more than one member state. the text clarifies many procedural points such as the applicable law, the enforceability of contracts vis-à-vis third parties and the consequences for property in the event of separation. at present, in the event of a dispute, a better informed party can take advantage of the situation to bring his case before the court of the member state which is most favourable to him. the distinction between marriage and partnership emerged from a lengthy discussion. the commission did not want to have a single text for both, to take account of the specific features of the partnership, starting with the fact that it does not exist everywhere. parliament has reduced the distinction by bringing the law applicable to partnerships closer to that of marriage, in line with the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination in the union.
in writing. in the european union, about one in seven marriages is transnational. in the event of dissolution of such marriages, the marriage register must be dissolved. the persons concerned are faced with complex issues, including the applicable law and the competent court. i voted in favour of this text which seeks to clarify these complex situations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, so that a judicial decision on the matrimonial property regime of an international civil partnership couple given in one member state can be recognised and enforced in another. it was important to apply the same rules to civil partnerships as to married couples, since they may face the same difficulties when ending their engagement. they will thus have the right to choose the national legislation applicable to their property, provided that they establish a close link with the member state in question.
in writing. this text aims to facilitate the administrative formalities related to the determination of assets for so-called transnational couples, in the case of spouses who are nationals of the european union but of two different member states. it is a concrete step forward for the benefit of the european people, which i support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because, in view of the significant increase in transnational unions within the european union and the practical and legal difficulties they face due to the diversity of the legal bases of our member states, it seems to me particularly important to ensure that european citizens can enjoy an appropriate level of legal certainty within the eu.
in writing. this is a new development in everyday europe! we have adopted two texts this week to improve the rights of binational couples: more clarity, more simplification of the legal framework governing the relations of these binational couples in the european area. the main and not least advance of this text is that the rights of binational couples are guaranteed, whether they are married or in a civil partnership. another element of these two texts is that the persons concerned (a married couple or a civil partnership) will be able to choose the legislation applicable to their property rights when these two people separate and the marriage or civil partnership is terminated. finally, decisions will be mutually recognised throughout the european union, while respecting the different property rights applied in the member states.
in writing. about one in seven marriages in the european union is covered by this directive, which aims to provide a clear legal framework in the event of the death of one of the partners or divorce. married couples will be able to choose the law that will apply to their property, as the law of matrimonial property regimes varies widely between member states. the new directive will thus simplify legal procedures and reduce their cost. the directive also clarifies the law in cases where spouses conclude contracts with third parties, for example in the case of a mortgage. i voted in favour of this text because international couples must be able to benefit from a clear legal framework and the same rights as other european couples.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports on the regulations on matrimonial property regimes to clarify the legal situation of international couples, couples of different nationalities and/or couples living abroad. the latter face legal difficulties and high procedural costs due to uncertainties regarding the national laws applicable to their property. both texts address this problem by providing consistent rules for determining the court with jurisdiction and the applicable legislation.
in writing. transport is one of the sectors where significant progress has been made in reducing co2 emissions and improving safety. however, this development should be continued, in particular through investment in research and innovation in favour of technologies that benefit everyone. i voted in favour of this report because it maintains this course for the years to come.
in writing. with this text, we have put research and innovation at the heart of sustainable transport objectives in europe. the focus will be on vehicles, infrastructure and services. i have approved this text because it preserves the balance between free movement in the eu and environmental protection objectives. the transport technologies of tomorrow are a real challenge, because there is not one single transport system for the future, but many, depending on the specificities of each region. they also represent a considerable cost, so we also had to show our support for the activities of smes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the cramer report because the european union needs to reduce its dependence on oil and the level of greenhouse gas emissions to meet the 2020 targets. by emphasising the importance of developing alternative fuels while maintaining a balance between the respective efforts of the member states in the field of environmental protection and free movement within the union, this report aims to promote, through research and innovation, the emergence of a competitive european transport system. the challenge is to coordinate the efforts of the various actors, in particular by strengthening public-private partnerships and simplifying administrative procedures.
in writing. this text sets strong ambitions to get us on the path to sustainable and innovative transport. europe can and must be at the forefront of sustainable transport technologies. i particularly support the emphasis on safety: we must not slacken our efforts to reduce the number of people killed or injured on the roads. i also welcome the emphasis on the importance of european satellite navigation systems such as galileo, which will play a key role in the development of smart and green transport modes for well-being, health and employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it is particularly important to make the european transport technology strategy as effective as possible, so as to achieve economic, environmental and societal gains and to stimulate sustainable growth and job creation. in order to preserve the union's position as a leader in research and technology, member states need to step up their coordination and investment efforts to better exploit the results of transport research.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which makes sustainable mobility a key priority of the european union's transport policy. the transport sector is a major contributor to pollution and there is an urgent need to move towards a more environmentally friendly mobility. the european union has set itself ambitious targets for reducing co2 emissions in the coming decades and these should be respected. but as this report rightly points out, this transition will not be possible without substantial financial support for research and innovation. in this sense it encourages more effective implementation of research in the different modes of transport.
in writing. the european parliament wanted to express its views on recommendations from the european commission to support research and innovation to create a sustainable transport system in europe. the text has three objectives: to reduce dependence on petroleum products in the transport sector, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions and, thanks to technical developments, reducing the number of road deaths. the report proposes, in particular, to create an innovation monitoring system to better coordinate actors, to improve convergence with other areas (telecommunications, energy, etc.) and to develop innovative financing solutions. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which is devoted to research and innovation in the transport sector and in particular to identifying areas which should be supported at eu level.
in writing. strengthening sustainable mobility is an imperative for the continuation of efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change. it is an environmental imperative which will also improve the quality of life for every european citizen. this report accompanies a reflection on the development of a european transport technology strategy and proposes interesting ways of pursuing these objectives. the report calls for an efficient and coherent use of research resources to avoid duplication of efforts at national and european level. i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it harmonises and strengthens, in some cases in a reasonable way, the rights of persons involved in criminal proceedings in order to ensure treatment in line with european values.
in writing. under the justice roadmap adopted in 2009, a major reform movement has been launched to ensure ever more equitable justice. the main points of the directive are the right of access to a lawyer, better communication between the client and his lawyer and better regulation of exceptions to the normal procedure. i found this directive to be balanced, since it guarantees the right of access to a lawyer, while avoiding excessive costs and obstacles to investigations.
in writing. i voted for the antonescu report which guarantees access to a lawyer for any suspected or accused person before the start of any questioning, during the questioning, or from the beginning of a deprivation of liberty. the report also stresses the need for confidentiality in the communication between lawyers and their clients and the right of the accused to communicate with at least one third party.
in writing. each year, eight million criminal proceedings are conducted in all member states. in the context of cooperation in the area of justice, freedom and security, and in view of the fact that the european union adopted a european charter of fundamental rights in 2009, it would be useful to establish a framework of common standards so that the right of defence is guaranteed in an equal manner for all citizens of the union, whereas today the conditions for access to a lawyer vary from one country to another. harmonisation and strengthening of procedural rights for suspects and accused persons are the prerequisites for the free and peaceful administration of justice, which applies equally to all throughout the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that citizens must be convinced that their rights are fully respected and that their safety is guaranteed when they move. they must also be sure that they have the same guarantees in all the member states and i therefore vote in favour of harmonising standards throughout europe. the right of access to a lawyer for suspects or accused persons must therefore be a paramount principle from the outset of criminal proceedings.
in writing. this is a major issue: the issue of procedural guarantees and rights, and we have been waiting for this third key element for a long time: an agreement on the draft directive on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings after many months of negotiations. the rights of the accused had to be strengthened and a balance had to be struck at all costs between the considerable progress made in cooperation on the part of the prosecution and the long delay in the rights of the defence. the adoption of this text is therefore very good news for the rights of the defence, in that it confers genuinely new rights on persons suspected or prosecuted in europe. we are now awaiting the european commission's proposals on legal aid and procedural rights for vulnerable persons, which are due to be added to the existing arsenal in the near future.
in writing. this directive is one of a series of proposals to ensure that the rights of european citizens arrested in another member state are respected, in particular those who have been the subject of a european arrest warrant. the right of access to a lawyer is a further step in the creation of a single area of justice in the european union. the directive provides, inter alia, for access to a lawyer to be guaranteed from the time of police questioning and throughout the criminal proceedings, for a person close to the suspect to be informed of his arrest and to be able to communicate with him, and for suspects in a state of which they are not nationals to be able to communicate with the consulate of their country and to receive visits. i voted in favour of this directive in order to strengthen and guarantee the right of european citizens to a fair trial in all member states.
in writing. the right to have access to a lawyer is a fundamental right recognised in our states of law. i voted for this report because it allows for the harmonisation of minimum standards for the rights of european citizens in criminal proceedings so that everyone in the european union has the right to be defended by a lawyer after arrest.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings. this draft directive is part of the strategy launched by the council in 2009 to strengthen the procedural rights of persons suspected or prosecuted in criminal matters. the proposal essentially establishes the principle that any suspected or accused person should have the right to access a lawyer, as soon as possible and in a manner that allows him or her to effectively exercise his or her rights of defence. while this principle is recognised by the echr and by some member states, it continues to be flouted within the eu, as evidenced by some judgments of the european court of human rights (cyprus in 2008 or france in 2010). in addition, the rules of the directive will apply in the context of the european arrest warrant, i.e. the right of access to a lawyer will be guaranteed both in the issuing state and in the executing state, i.e. where one is arrested. this should make it possible to move towards the harmonisation of criminal proceedings in the union, to the benefit of the persons subject to the proceedings.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which guarantees every citizen access to a lawyer in all eu member states. any suspect or accused person may request the assistance of a lawyer before the start of any police questioning and throughout the criminal proceedings. in addition, prisoners will be allowed to communicate with a person of their choice. this right will be regulated so as not to impede the proper conduct of the investigation and not to obstruct the work of the police and the judiciary. procedures are also being revised to deal with emergencies such as terrorist threats.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which allows a person arrested in another eu member state to exercise his rights of defence in accordance with the standards of the echr. this should lead to the right to a lawyer at the time of arrest and before being questioned by the police, with the lawyer then being able to participate in the questioning. these provisions were not obtained without difficulty. the rapporteur had to fight hard against the council and the member states who wanted to introduce a number of exceptions which would have made access to a fair trial arbitrary. the council wanted in particular to derogate from the principle of confidentiality of communications between the accused and his lawyer (an extra layer) and to define minor offences broadly, which would have constituted as many exceptions to the rules of the directive. i welcome the adoption of this text, which is in line with the demands of the associations of lawyers and human rights defenders. the battle waged by the ep shows that the europe of rights is a fight worth fighting. french law will therefore have to evolve in this area. i regret, however, that the member states have been given a three-year deadline for implementation.
in writing. the subprime crisis that erupted in the us in 2007 exposed the weaknesses of the mortgage markets and the need for common rules. the new rules are designed to provide better information and better protection for european consumers. the borrower will thus have to be informed in a clear and precise manner of the risks involved in taking out a loan. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. the sanchez presedo report, which i supported, sets out the solutions proposed to the borrower in the event of default. in the long term, these common rules will make it possible to achieve an integrated mortgage credit market.
in writing. i voted in favour of better information for consumers when they take out a loan to buy a residential property. at present, consumers are not well protected from market fluctuations and repayment difficulties. they will be better informed before the contract is signed about the conditions and risks of the loan and better advised during the contract. as member states try to revive their housing markets, consumer protection rules had to be strengthened and over-indebtedness fought.
in writing. borrowers will now be better protected, not only when signing their loan agreement, but also when repaying it. in the event of default, the text introduces measures to prevent them from falling into debt beyond the limits of what is reasonable, with a set of safeguards to protect them in case of difficulties. preventing families from becoming over-indebted, ending irresponsible behaviour that leads to excessive debt, is our objective and it is clear, because it was one of the main causes of the financial crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i support the objective of better protecting consumers in the european union by taking into account the specific nature of loans relating to residential immovable property. i am particularly in favour of ensuring that consumers have a reasonable and sufficient period of time before they commit themselves to taking out a loan and of preventing practices which could lead them to take out a credit agreement which would not be in their best interests.
in writing. the economic crisis, which was first triggered by a mortgage crisis in the us in 2007, demonstrated that the mortgage market needed to be better regulated worldwide. the european commission had to act. the directive it put to the vote of the european parliament aims to create a single market for mortgage loans, which in 2009 accounted for more than half of the eu's gross domestic product (gdp) (€6 trillion), while protecting consumers. lenders or intermediaries will be able to operate throughout the european union after registering with the national authorities. lenders will be required to be more responsible, in particular through the prohibition of misleading advertising, the provision of a cooling-off period for consumers, the prohibition of granting a loan if borrowers are not considered solvent, and better information to consumers about contractual conditions and risks. i voted in favour of this text, because it will make it possible to regulate european consumers and the mortgage market better.
in writing. i voted with conviction for the directive on mortgage credit, which aims to protect the borrower from banks and credit institutions and to avoid over-indebtedness. this directive strengthens the liability of the lender for loans secured by a mortgage or any credit relating to the principal residence. the borrower's ability to repay will now be assessed and verified before the credit agreement is signed. this assessment shall take into account all factors that may affect the borrower's ability to repay, including all of its financial commitments and income. credit intermediaries, such as the large retailers, are developing credit with less and less supervision, creating dramatic situations of over-indebtedness for consumers. these intermediaries are the main targets of this directive. member states will need to improve their credit management and ensure in particular that assistance is available to the least experienced and most vulnerable borrowers such as first-time borrowers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to establish a common regulatory framework on market abuse. it ensures the integrity of financial markets in the european union by improving investor protection as well.
in writing. the financial crisis has undermined consumer confidence in the financial system. in the face of market abuse, insider trading and market manipulation, which have enriched some banks, the european union has decided to tighten its legislation. these new rules, which i supported, will act as a deterrent to companies being prosecuted for market abuse. financial penalties could reach up to 15% of their annual turnover.
in writing. i voted in favour of stricter rules on market abuse, in order to stabilise the financial system and better control the markets. some bankers have enriched themselves through insider trading and market manipulation, which has lowered the confidence of consumers and investors in banks. as europe tries to revive its markets, restoring confidence in banks and protecting consumers in the financial services sector is essential to clean up the system.
in writing. financial markets are now subject to simple and clear rules to prevent misuse and abuse: this helps to put an end to uncontrolled finance. i welcome the european union's reaction to this matter: after the scandals over the manipulation of the libor and euribor key rates, we have reached a balanced text to prevent such errors from being repeated. we also take account of technological developments in financial markets, such as high-frequency trading, and new trading practices: we must be realistic and adapt to market developments, and this text fulfils that objective.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i support, in particular, the introduction of stronger sanctions in cases of market abuse, which ensure a coherent approach in the different eu member states and enhance their deterrent effect. the future directive on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation should strengthen these provisions.
in writing. the 2008 financial crisis showed that financial markets had taken advantage of deregulation to introduce practices that threaten the stability of our financial system and economy. while european citizens have had to support the bailout of banks, we must ensure that markets adopt healthier practices. the aim of this directive is to better regulate insider dealing, which allows investors with confidential information to profit from prices that do not reflect that information. the directive will also make it possible to better control market manipulation, which refers to operations aimed at artificially changing prices, for example by increasing trading volumes to raise prices or by spreading rumours to lower prices. the directive will now apply to all markets and new financial products and its application will be simplified. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which provides for a tightening of the rules on market abuse. in particular, the report introduces a criminal regime for market abuse with minimum sanctions set at union level.
in writing. i abstained on this report on 'market abuse', i.e. insider dealing and market manipulation. the overall objective of preventing fraud and manipulation of financial markets is certainly a worthy one. five years after the unprecedented crisis caused by these same financial markets and with no harmonised regulation in place at present, it was high time that the european union addressed the issue. however, the motives displayed are chilling to the most enthusiastic: "to make the financial markets more attractive to those seeking to raise capital". that's all there is to it. how can we still say that we need to continue to make financial markets more attractive to anyone? when we know the divisions between the member states, we can only be sceptical. there are some minor adjustments, but we are still in the so-called moralization of financial capitalism. we still refuse to take this issue at face value. one example: on sanctions, the report proposes to establish 'minimum rules on administrative measures, penalties and fines' while leaving member states 'free to set higher standards'.
in writing. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it was necessary to align certain previous regulatory provisions concerning the conservation of fishery resources in the waters of the baltic sea, the belts and the sound. i voted in favour of this text which, by means of technical measures for the protection of marine organisms, brings european rules up to date.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to bring technical measures into line with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty. the commission will therefore have more technical powers to implement the substantial changes to the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which allows technical measures in the baltic, belts and öresund waters to be brought into line with the lisbon treaty. by classifying the european commission's powers between delegated and implementing acts, these amendments enable the use of new technical knowledge. i also agree with the rapporteur's innovative position that the commission should, immediately after the publication of the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy applicable from 1 january 2014, make a proposal to amend that regulation in order to bring it into line with the objectives of the new european fisheries management and in particular to adapt the landing obligation to the technical measures of the baltic sea, the belts and the öresund.
in writing. this text is purely technical in nature, adapting an existing regulation to the developments introduced by the treaty of lisbon in the field of comitology. that is why i voted for it. however, its content concerns a set of measures which are still under discussion and which we will have to settle quickly in the framework of our future common fisheries policy. i therefore support the proposal that the commission should come forward with a new proposal for a regulation as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of the introduction of greater coherence in the management of fisheries resources in this area by the institutions of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report adapting the regulation to the changes required by the lisbon treaty and recommending that the european commission submit a new proposal for a regulation on the use of technical measures in the waters of the baltic sea, the belts and the oresund, which takes into account the changes brought about by the reform of the common fisheries policy, which will enter into force in january 2014.
in writing. as former president of the european parliament jerzy buzek did an excellent job with this report which highlights all the shortcomings of the current european energy policy (rising prices, difficulty in reducing co2 emissions, fears about energy independence, maintenance of coal-fired power stations, etc.), i supported this report. the internal energy market must now be fully realised as soon as possible. secondly, a genuine european energy community should be created, in particular to ensure better european energy diplomacy at the global level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a genuine internal energy market to stem the rise in energy prices we are experiencing in europe. between 2011 and 2012, gas increased by 10%, and electricity by 6.6%. while household purchasing power was already in decline, we had to protect the purchasing power of 500 million european citizens. moreover, the problem is not just one of consumers, these price increases are also weakening the competitiveness and attractiveness of our industries in the energy market.
in writing. our objective is to complete the internal energy market by 2014. to achieve this, urgent action is needed to remove the physical barriers that still exist between our countries, to build the necessary networks and to complete the implementation of existing regulations, in particular the third energy package. i am pleased that this text incorporates the amendments i tabled to ensure greater transparency in the energy bills of european citizens: the strategic decisions we take in favour of one or another form of energy have concrete consequences in the pocketbook of europeans, and it is therefore legitimate for them to be kept informed.
in writing. the eu member states have committed themselves to completing the internal energy market by 2014. such a market will benefit both consumers and businesses, who will both benefit from lower prices, thus promoting the competitiveness of businesses and their job creation. reducing the eu's energy dependence must be the first priority of a common energy policy. to do this, the eu must exploit the full potential of all renewable energy sources, while improving its energy efficiency in both the public transport sector and the building sector, where the potential for savings is greatest. europe must also guarantee energy security for each of its members and prevent the interruption of gas supplies to some eu countries that are heavily dependent on russia. a common gas market for the whole of europe, based on adequate infrastructure, storage capacity and strategic reserve requirements, together with solidarity between member states, is the only possible basis for a secure energy supply.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that all energy priorities have been properly considered, taking into account the rise in energy prices and costs and their effects on the consumer as well as on industry. i have been particularly attentive to the need to invest in modernising and developing energy infrastructure to promote our competitiveness in the energy market.
in writing. i welcome the vote on tuesday, 10 september, on the buzek report, which lays the foundations for the proper functioning of the internal energy market in europe. the parliament is reacting to the increase in energy prices in europe. i believe that it is high time to protect the purchasing power of european consumers by establishing the internal energy market with a view to guaranteeing fair, transparent and competitive energy prices. i also asked the european commission directly in a written question about the reasons for this price increase and the measures envisaged to stabilise and reduce energy prices in europe. i look forward to the commission's analysis of the structure of energy prices and costs in all member states and the factors determining them by the end of 2013. the internal energy market must be a key element of global competitiveness, economic growth and, above all, job creation by 2020 in europe.
in writing. the european union has committed itself to completing the internal energy market by 2014, which will allow for better coordination of member states' energy policies and the development of new supply strategies with other member states. i voted in favour of this report because we need to find alternatives to oil and invest in our energy independence, in line with the principles of sustainable development, while promoting innovation. the report that was adopted aims to stimulate competition within the internal market so that our companies are more competitive and consumers benefit from lower prices. energy prices will also have to be more transparent. the report also encourages investment to modernise and develop energy infrastructure. finally, it called on the european commission to support research into innovative energy technologies, in particular those with less negative effects on the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which calls for greater transparency in energy prices and for the modernisation of energy systems, i.e. making them more energy efficient. in order to achieve the objective of an internal energy market by 2014, member states need to move towards better coordination of energy policies and enhanced cooperation between member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a wide range of concrete solutions to complete the internal energy market. it seems to me that in this proposal we have succeeded in reconciling in a coherent way the main objectives of the internal energy market: security of supply, the promotion of healthy competition in the european energy market for the benefit of consumers, and the reduction of energy dependence on third countries. we have no shortage of ideas, such as the creation of a european energy community, increased european funds for investment in renewable energy, and of course in infrastructure. the european energy network must be smart and forward-looking: european consumers will need more power and more knowledge to better control their energy bills. such a european energy policy would have a positive impact on consumers and on european growth, which is currently held back by europe's dependence on oil and gas imports.
in writing. as the price of energy falls in the us, particularly due to the exploration of shale gas, i am concerned about the rising energy bill for households and businesses in europe. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which proposes concrete ways of combating this perverse phenomenon of rising energy prices, which is a problem of both declining purchasing power and declining competitiveness. i particularly share the epp rapporteur's desire to find an alternative to the indexation of gas prices to those of oil, because it leads to an unjustified and disproportionate increase in gas prices. to bring down energy prices, competition in the energy sector should also be reinvigorated, so that consumers can choose between several quality suppliers. this requires a real separation of distribution and production activities. as long as an energy company has control of the infrastructure, it can block or alter access to its market and prevent the development of competition, to the detriment of the interests of companies, citizens and the european internal market!
in writing. - the measures of the third energy package were not implemented quickly enough, and the rapporteur, former president of the european parliament (epp), supports the european commission's communication on further liberalisation of the energy market. no more regulated national tariffs! long live the regional and even local pricing, long live unbridled competition! consumers are even "encouraged to play a more active role in stimulating competition in the market". the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. go around, there's nothing to see! not even a reference to energy for all. and the references to the transatlantic market suggest the worst: "the shale gas revolution in the united states has reduced co2 emissions, while providing a substantial competitive advantage to american industry", the report enthusiastically states, forgetting the damage these gases cause on american soil. i therefore vote against, without feeling.
in writing. energy efficiency is a central element of the energy transition in which the eu wishes to engage. in a low-carbon economy, sobriety and energy efficiency play a leading role. the eu's cohesion policy, as a redistributive and solidarity instrument, must reflect these requirements. while in the previous programming period the eur 5,5 billion allocated to energy efficiency was not fully used, the period 2014-2020 should allow the structural funds to fully contribute to the development of energy efficiency in transport, buildings and in particular housing, by removing obstacles, in particular regulatory ones, and by increasing the visibility of programmes and the opportunities for beneficiaries. making homes more efficient means, among other things, combating the energy poverty that affects millions of our fellow europeans. cohesion policy, through the funds, remains the key lever to reduce disparities within the eu and to achieve the objectives the eu has set itself.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which encourages the european union to continue its efforts to improve energy efficiency in the context of cohesion policy. the eu has adopted ambitious targets under horizon 2020, including a 20% reduction in overall energy consumption. in order to achieve these objectives, investment in energy efficiency measures is needed to reduce costs, create jobs and growth and encourage the transition to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which encourages the member states of the european union to continue their efforts to improve the energy efficiency of the union. the union's commitment to the 20% energy saving target by 2020 is to ensure that local and regional authorities have easier access to european structural and investment funds dedicated to energy efficiency. by adopting this report, states can contribute to the optimisation and rationalisation of national and regional programmes, in particular by designing and constructing buildings that are less energy-intensive. the report therefore clearly advocates a reduction in the energy costs borne by european citizens.
in writing. europe has set itself a clear target for 2020: to achieve a 20% reduction in its overall energy consumption, partly through energy efficiency. energy efficiency is a key tool for our competitiveness, as it allows businesses to reduce their energy consumption without affecting their competitiveness or employment. cohesion policy is a key tool to help us achieve this. i welcome the fact that this report sets out strong ambitions for the next programming period.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to ensure that european cohesion policy objectives are compatible with energy efficiency objectives and to strengthen the impact of energy efficiency measures for the coming programming period, without setting binding targets for the european union.
in writing. the committee on regional development, of which i am a member, wanted to give an opinion on energy efficiency measures, which account for a large proportion of funding under cohesion policy. as we prepare to vote on the reform of the structural funds which will come into force for the new 2014-2020 period, it seemed essential to me to take stock of the measures taken during the previous programming period in order to assess their appropriateness and make the necessary improvements. i hope that these recommendations will not fall into limbo and will contribute to the improvement of our cohesion policy, whose complexity and opacity have so far often discouraged many project promoters whose ideas and know-how could certainly have contributed to the dynamism of our local and regional economies.
in writing. part of the eu's cohesion policy funds, such as the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european social fund (esf), is devoted to improving energy efficiency, particularly in buildings. the report adopted assesses the effectiveness of these funds and proposes a number of measures to increase their impact. the report also contains recommendations to make european, national and regional cohesion policy objectives compatible with energy efficiency objectives. i voted in favour of this text because greater energy efficiency is synonymous with savings and respect for the environment, but also a source of innovation and jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which assesses the current results of cohesion policy measures targeting energy efficiency and proposes recommendations to increase their impact in the new programming period.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i would like to recall one simple fact: energy efficiency is one of the main challenges for sustainable growth in europe. one third of the eu's co2 emissions come from the energy consumption of buildings. before we replace fossil fuels, our first priority is to reduce our energy consumption. the potential is immense and the results are within our reach. low-energy buildings, or renewable energy sources such as solar, can save citizens a lot of money on their energy bills and create new jobs. the european union has adopted numerous regulations to achieve the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. the budgetary stimulus is now lacking. we have the means. the €325 billion of the next cohesion policy must be mobilised to invest in energy efficiency. thanks to our work in the parliamentary committee, the next regulation will require a minimum share of funds to be concentrated towards this objective. this effort should be used as a lever to attract private capital. however, the commission will have to ensure that the complexity of the procedures does not hinder the goodwill of the actors on the ground.
in writing. the union 2020 targets for reducing annual primary energy consumption must be met. it is our responsibility to future generations. improving energy efficiency can both combat global warming and contribute to growth by creating new jobs. as a member of the socialist and democratic group, i support this report which stresses that energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy help to achieve the eu2020 objectives. the report also emphasises the role of local and regional actors in energy supply and use in order to achieve the objectives set. i therefore call for their skills and responsibilities to be strengthened.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for the establishment of a new european union strategy on fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic-ionian basin. the aim is to give a strong impetus to the development of long-term viable economic activities with positive impacts on coastal communities and their hinterland.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes a new macro-regional strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic-ionian basin to develop economic activities. the new strategy supports the need to move towards sustainable management of common resources by promoting good practices and initiatives. it was important to develop a specific strategy for this sea basin, which is characterised by its own geophysical configuration.
in writing. i voted for the milana report because this macro-regional strategy for the development of fisheries and aquaculture activities is useful to coastal states and to the member states of the union. the report proposes the means of combating marine pollution, coastal erosion and uncontrolled urbanisation, which are harmful to the environment, by coordinating fishing and aquaculture activities in the adriatic and ionian basin. moreover, this integrated management of maritime policies in the adriatic and ionian seas is in line with the objectives set by the reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. this text sets out clear ambitions for a new eu strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic-ionian basin. the establishment of a macro-regional strategy would make it possible to better address the common challenges faced by these regions. i welcome the emphasis on the necessary promotion of women's activities and the introduction of incentives to encourage young people to work in fisheries and aquaculture.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because closer cooperation with neighbouring countries is needed to establish a common management of fisheries activities and ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. it is particularly important to adopt a macro-regional strategy of the union which takes into account the specificities of this sea basin for the fisheries and aquaculture sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report for a strategy for fisheries in the adriatic and ionian sea, which calls on the european commission to adopt an action plan for the joint management of fisheries activities and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in this region.
in writing. - the european parliament voted on tuesday, 10 september, on a report by the italian socialist member of parliament, milana, which seeks to affirm the role of the european parliament in the european guidelines for fisheries in the adriatic and ionian seas. in this report, parliament calls on the european commission to launch a proposal for a macro-regional strategy with a priority for fisheries and aquaculture, respecting the environment and the commitments made in the common fisheries policy (cfp). the european parliament's willingness to weigh in on this is honourable, but the report discusses the possibility of using public-private partnerships as a preferred funding tool, which prevents me from supporting the report as it stands and seems to me dangerous for the cfp as a whole. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. the principle of multilingualism and the translation of parliamentary work are essential to the proper democratic functioning of the european parliament. since croatia joined the european union, 24 official languages have been used in the european parliament, the largest multilingual parliament in the world. in this time of crisis, however, it is necessary to ensure the most efficient and intelligent management of public money by streamlining the implementation of multilingualism. that is why i supported my colleague, esther de lange, on this matter and voted against the alternative resolution tabled by the socialist group. unfortunately, this text, which was intended to take a step backwards in terms of savings, that is to say to reduce savings, was adopted - what a pity!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to better regulate the conditions of interpretation in the european parliament. this will include the introduction of a system of penalties for late cancellations and better preparation of the necessary interpreted languages at meetings. at present, almost 3,000 interpreters work for the european parliament and the commission, so they represent a significant source of expenditure which must be optimised to avoid unnecessary expenditure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the de lange report because it allows an analysis of the organisation of the interpretation services of the parliament, the commission and the council, in order to optimise the use of interpretation services and reduce their costs. by strengthening budgetary control over these expenditures, the european institutions are making sure that european funds are used efficiently. the report proposes, in particular, the introduction of a system of penalties to reduce late cancellations of interpreters' reservations and the establishment of a system to prevent situations where not all the official languages of the european union are used at meetings. this report proposes to streamline the use of this service within our institution.
in writing. 552: the number of language combinations that the european parliament, with its 24 official languages, must now cover. in 2004, the european parliament introduced the concept of managed multilingualism, which was intended to ensure a better use of resources while respecting multilingualism. while significant efficiency gains have already been made, there is still work to be done to ensure that european citizens make the best possible use of our resources. this report sheds light on the steps to be taken in this direction.
in writing. the european institutions are the only ones in the world to have an official multilingualism policy with 24 official languages, with a total of 522 language combinations to be covered. this linguistic diversity is a richness of the union, but it comes at a cost. to adapt to this complex system, the interpretation services of the european parliament have to incur considerable costs. as the representative of european citizens, the european parliament has a duty to ensure that european public funds are used properly, while ensuring that multilingualism is preserved. this invaluable resource gives all citizens access to the public debates of parliament and must not be called into question.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text to raise awareness of the objective of streamlining multilingualism, without compromising the overall quality and the right of members to use in parliament the official language of their choice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report 'towards more efficient and economical interpretation in the european parliament'. the report reaffirms the principle of multilingualism as the foundation of european parliament policy and proposes practical ways to improve its effectiveness while maintaining the possibility for each member to be able to speak in the official eu language of his or her choice.
in writing. in the face of the growth of online gambling activities in the european union, the european parliament called for more regulation. i voted in favour of this text, incorporating a sporting dimension. indeed, in terms of financing, fraud or participation, the sports sector is directly impacted by these activities. so it was necessary to preserve its integrity.
in writing. in 2011, the european commission published a green paper on which the european parliament responded by adopting an own-initiative report on online gambling in the internal market on 15 november 2011, which recognised the competence of the states but recalled how european-wide coordination could bring added value. the field of online gambling is indeed difficult to regulate on a national basis, given that the medium used (the internet) is - by definition - transnational. in 2012, the commission published a new communication to go further in defining a common european framework in this area. the report adopted today therefore reiterates the need to protect the integrity of sport in europe, to fight fraud and the black market, to protect minors and the most vulnerable consumers and also underlines the usefulness of a blacklist of providers of illegal gambling. given the size of the online gambling market (10% of total gambling revenue), the union needs to accelerate the move and increase cooperation to ensure the integrity of sport.
in writing. no one can deny that the growth of online gambling has created a number of problems (addiction, money laundering, corruption in sport) to which disparate policies in the member states do not provide satisfactory answers. we therefore call on legal operators, regulatory authorities and the commission to cooperate in defining high standards and common tools to effectively combat illegal betting offers, to control sometimes false or excessive advertising, and to control access to gambling by vulnerable persons and minors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve the coordination of the supervisory authorities for online betting and gaming in the member states. because of the difficulties that this activity can entail (over-indebtedness, money laundering, etc.), we need to put in place common consumer protection tools, such as user registration and verification. it was important to act, as online sports betting is increasingly being used by global mafias to launder their money and make more money by rigging matches. the text will require new rules to be introduced in the member states, including common measures to guarantee the integrity of sport.
in writing. almost 7 million europeans gamble online. they are exposed to risks which they cannot face alone and which need to be dealt with with vigilance, both at national and european level. in addition to the addictive nature of online gambling, it can also be a means for unscrupulous operators to launder money. a european framework of protection measures must be established so that every citizen, wherever he is and whatever legal website he consults, is protected. these european standards must be balanced and enable the rights and obligations of both service providers and consumers to be defined. they will have to ensure that the most vulnerable users are protected, for example by preventing misleading and excessive advertising, while preserving the economic potential of this market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because the establishment of common standards for online gambling and gambling should define the rights and obligations of both service providers and consumers, ensuring a high level of protection for citizens and consumers, in particular minors and vulnerable persons, and preventing misleading and excessive advertising. i particularly encourage the establishment of common and uniform security standards at european level for electronic identification and cross-border electronic verification services in order to ensure consistent consumer protection within the union.
in writing. a large number of europeans regularly gamble online. their number is actually constantly increasing and this activity, which can be dangerous, needs to be regulated. while addiction is the primary danger to gamblers, online gambling can also be a vehicle for some criminal networks to engage in illegal activities. but here, as elsewhere, we must strike the right balance between consumer protection and safeguarding a sector with great economic potential. that is the balance we are trying to achieve in the european parliament.
in writing. this european parliament report responds to a communication from the european commission on online gambling. the commission considers that cooperation between the member states' administrations in this area should be strengthened in order to ensure better consumer protection. the european parliament supports this objective and wishes to combat misleading advertising and financial fraud. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of employees. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that online gambling should be regulated to protect consumers and i want the eu member states to cooperate in order to sanction sites that break the law.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report in order to define common consumer protection measures such as the implementation of a self-exclusion mechanism for players and to fight more effectively against illegal operators through the establishment of blacklists, control of advertising and access to minors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes a ban on certain types of betting - such as betting on underage competitions - and measures to protect the consumer and the integrity of sport. while betting can increase the interest in sports activities among many spectators, it can also distort the results and cause a rift in some sports circles. parliament therefore called for a better policy on the prevention and punishment of match-fixing and for the protection of vulnerable people against false advertising and the risks of addiction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to protect european consumers from online gambling. these are not games like the others. not only do they pose a particularly high risk of addiction for gamblers, but they also represent an industry with extraordinary links to the world of organised crime, money laundering and match-fixing. despite the difficulty of controlling this sector at the heart of new technologies and the internet, the report proposes many improvements. it recommends the adoption of common and uniform safety standards at european level, starting with a common definition of the concept of a lawful operator. finally, it recommends that member states exchange good practice on sanctions. the report also repeatedly stresses the principle of subsidiarity, recognising that 'member states must retain the right to impose restrictions as they deem necessary'. it even respects 'the decision taken by the member states as regards the establishment of monopolies in this sector' such as the french games.
in writing. luigi berlinguer the conditions laid down in the second paragraph of article 255 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i voted in favour of this report, which enables him to be appointed as a member of the committee responsible for giving an opinion on the suitability of candidates for the office of judge and advocate general of the court of justice and the general court of the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, i will make only one comment on the draft budget for 2014 and the amending budgets for 2013 because they are all subject to the same absolute political constraint: the question is to respect the agreement reached between our three institutions on the multiannual financial framework. this agreement commits the 28 governments, unanimously, at the highest level. and yet the budget ministers ignore it. the draft budget for 2014, adopted on 2 september, breaks the commission's proposals on the priority policies we have defined together: on youth employment, on research, on support for smes, on erasmus for all, on the structural funds, which support growth. the commissioner has said it very well, and so have our rapporteurs. what is the use of coreper if it is not able to inform the budget ministers of the decisions taken by the european council at political level and legally validated by the general affairs council? is it the responsibility of parliament to ensure that the heads of government are made to obey their ministers? we have been negotiating the multiannual financial framework for months. the agreement we have reached was supported by a very large majority in parliament last july. it is time for each one to show his good faith by honoring the solemn and specific commitments that have been made. on both sides we have negotiated on the basis that 'there is no agreement on anything until there is agreement on everything'. we have reached an agreement on everything, now we must implement it. the romans used to say in latin, "pacta sunt servanda". the same applies to amending budgets and payment appropriations for 2013. we shall be voting this week on the first instalment of the missing appropriations. the commission will immediately propose the second tranche of 3.9 billion. until formal agreement on this second tranche has been given by an authority empowered by the council, the ratification of the 2014-2020 budgetary framework will not be put to the vote of parliament's plenary. we had planned the final vote on the mff for this part-session: it was to take place tomorrow. the date now envisaged is the second session in october, a month later. and if we have to, we'll postpone again. in the meantime, we'll have had a trilateral meeting on payments. i thank the lithuanian presidency for accepting the principle of this, which the previous presidency had rejected. i hope that on this basis we can agree to solve all the problems of this year and 2014. all the political choices have been made, now it is a matter of implementing them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this amending budget is - as we all know - the central part of an agreement between the european parliament and the council on the budgets for the period 2014 to 2020. for my country, the additional effort is in the order of 1.8 billion euros. it may not be much for you, but it is a lot for french taxpayers who, after years of austerity, have never been punched so much. this year, in addition to the almost 2 billion which will add another 7 billion to the net french contribution, we have to face an additional 5 billion in so-called 'exceptional' european expenditure: 1.5 billion for the capital increase of the european investment bank and 3.5 billion for the european stability mechanism, which i find hard to believe is 'exceptional'. that's at least 12 billion more in spending. what was the result? unemployment is exploding, the economic and social situation in europe is catastrophic, and the political orientations and the therapeutic determination to save the euro are largely responsible. the 2014 budget, approved by the council, is already being challenged as not being enough to support growth. even mr van rompuy knows that the european budget, by its structure and its size, can only be a budget that is largely clientelist and largely ineffective.
madam president, a generation sacrificed, a generation forgotten, a generation in crisis, but by whom? who condemns young people to oblivion? who is making them the first victims of the economic, social and ecological crisis? i'm saying yesterday's recipes are no longer working! in europe today, youth unemployment is twice as high as that of their elders. 14 million of them are not in employment, training or apprenticeship. worse still, more than 50 per cent of young spaniards and greeks are unemployed. i would like to say to the commission that you continue your fine speeches, but we are still waiting for action. we've already wasted too much time. as environmentalists, we make youth our priority. we shall therefore be voting on our own resolution as from tomorrow. we cannot accept that we are demanding more and more from young people while depriving them of the rights enjoyed by their elders. we want equal rights in health, housing, minimum social security. we have indeed obtained the youth guarantee, but the youth of europe deserve better than 6 billion euros. even the ilo says it: at least 21 billion euros are needed to make these policies effective. we reject systematic adaptation to the needs of the labour market and the concentration of resources on education and training for the most elite. that's not how it's gonna work! to create jobs, we must first stop destroying them. we must stop the austerity policies which are also leading to the precarious situation of a whole generation. we should think about cutting down on working hours. we must ensure the quality and decency of the work. you want to take strong action? i'll give you some. it is high time to implement a minimum income for all, a quality charter for traineeships, a strategy for health and safety at work, but above all we must invest in training, in integration, in sectors of the future by drawing on european funds. this is the ecological transition!
madam president, commissioner, our colleague mr skrzydlewska's report is in line with the struggle that was waged by the european parliament long ago, before the epsco council, when we mobilized for this guarantee for young people to exist. it exists, it is being negotiated. the contribution of this report is to go perhaps even further and to say how much this youth guarantee must be based on an overall strategy. it is no use saying that we want to fight youth unemployment and thinking in a closed way. this question is directly linked to the way in which the social question is dealt with at european level. is it planned, yes or no, to have indicators to monitor the evolution of youth unemployment? is this issue being taken seriously, so as not to make headlines in fine speeches, but are the tools for analysis and intervention being put to use in this area? is the youth guarantee being made into a tool to deal with the reality of youth unemployment today? for example, in a country like spain, young people are a category that unfortunately does not stop at 25 but goes up to 30 before they can access a first job. more generally, in the crisis exit strategy we are implementing, does this mean that we share the following analysis, that youth mobility cannot be a response to the crisis? that in addition to the free movement of persons, there is also the right to live and work in the country? finally, what is needed to implement the banking union so that the return of investment is also possible in the peripheral countries and that we stop thinking of growth as the alpha and omega of the future, without making growth conditional on job creation?
madam president, in this debate i think we cannot afford to speak because what young people expect from us is quick, strong and concrete commitments. the 6 billion euros in the multiannual budget are there, but how can we consider that this will be enough when economic policies are destroying jobs? when are austerity policies being implemented throughout the european union which are weakening public services, in particular public education and training services, which are the essential condition for achieving our objectives? today, in some regions - it has been said - the youth unemployment rate is over 50%. i believe that when unemployment is so high, we must be imaginative and abandon solutions which have proved to have no positive effect. i therefore call on the commission to create a specific support mechanism for regions where the unemployment rate is above 50%, such as the outermost regions.
madam president, commissioner, today's young people must not be a generation sacrificed. member states must implement the youth guarantee in a concrete, rapid and mandatory manner for the benefit of every young person in the european union. with the necessary financial resources, namely 21 billion instead of eight, it is our responsibility and our utmost urgency to ensure that young people have jobs, training and, in any case, an income that will enable them to lead a decent life and to gain access to autonomy. in addition, the fight against the accumulation of jobs, mandates and posts must enable us to free up slots for young people by sharing responsibilities and jobs. autonomy, decent incomes, social, economic, ecological and political utility must be our goals to build and achieve for young people, with young people and their representatives.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, georgios papanikolaou and joanna katarzyna skrzydlewska, on their very high quality report. the report is full of constructive ideas and i fully agree with the general conclusion that not investing in young people is worse than neglecting them. we risk sacrificing a whole generation. it is essential that our investments give priority to the fight against youth unemployment. we must give hope and prospects to young people, of whom one in two in some countries is unemployed. these are dramatic levels. we must use more targeted instruments. we need specific measures for young people and we must therefore make the best use of the funds available. i also share the rapporteur's concerns about the inadequacy of the powers. we need a more flexible training system which adapts to technological developments as well as to the needs of the labour market. the appropriations for the erasmus programme could also be increased. it is a key programme that helps to create a multicultural, mobile and multilingual generation. it is a vector of wealth and openness for our youth. we must also do everything possible to encourage young people to set up businesses and thus give them the opportunity to be fully independent in the labour market. so let's focus on their future, because no one else will shape the future better than them!
madam president, six million young people are unemployed in the european union and it is our responsibility to find solutions to this tragic situation. beware, however, of simplistic answers that may prove counterproductive. it will not be enough to bring the school closer to the enterprise to meet this challenge, much less to adapt training to the needs of the enterprise or the labour market. this would be to forget the rapid pace of change in the economic world and the consequent need for an education that prepares our young people for permanent change, that is, to equip them with a base of knowledge and know-how broad enough to enable them to adapt to future technological developments. we should also beware of the way we older people view young people - a society that views youth with suspicion and suspicion. we must condemn the stereotypes of laziness or delinquency that seep through certain discourses. finally, i would like to see some consistency in the decisions taken by the european institutions. when, for reasons connected, commissioner, with the sacrosanct rigor against public deficits, we are asked to delay the retirement age, we are closing the doors a little more to the new generations. youth today faces so many obstacles. europe must stand by him.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are living through some very exciting times in this parliament. we are about to have two totally unrelated debates. one is about the digital agenda and cybersecurity. it will be accompanied by a resolution in which we call for enhanced network and information security measures, and for more cooperation, including police cooperation, between states, including with the united states. the other concerns the intimidation of journalists who have exposed the world to the depravities of the united states, britain and france. the lack of trust of our fellow citizens in the internet has greatly worsened in recent weeks with these widespread espionage cases; big brother is getting more and more credible. yes, the potential of digital is extraordinary. businesses, consumers have a right to cybersecurity, but, commissioner, as you have said, no citizen should be the victim of spying. governments and their agencies must set an example or nothing is credible.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would like to reply to mr kirkhope, but it is so ridiculous that i will stick to my speech. in july, we passed a moderate resolution on the prism/nsa scandal. since then, the newspaper le monde has published an investigation showing that french secret services are using the same methods in areas of influence in france. they admitted to the french parliamentarians that they were exchanging information with more than 200 of their foreign counterparts, including the united states of course. all those who are committed to freedom of expression should welcome the fact that leading investigative newspapers are doing their job and revealing to our fellow citizens the extent of the widespread surveillance that is being implemented under the guise of fighting terrorism and organized crime. it is intolerable that journalists who reveal these scandals and the newspapers for which they work should be subjected to intimidation, as in britain. that the guardian was forced to destroy his files is outrageous! at least they think so, because we have been assured of this in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and i think the british government has some concerns in this area, and i welcome that. yes, the arrest by the british police of david miranda, glenn greenwald's partner, on the basis of anti-terrorism legislation is intolerable, as is the conviction of bradley manning. we're invoking national security, the risk of passing information to the chinese. but who are we kidding? it is good to defend press freedom everywhere. it is even better to protect it in our own territory, because at the rate things are moving, we will soon have nothing to envy to dictatorships, whatever they may be. as for the gue/ngl group, we will put forward edward snowden as a candidate for the sakharov prize and we will not be the only ones, i hope, because whistleblowers are a necessary asset for democracy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the 20th century, a number of factors have influenced the european eel population. this is the case, of course, with fishing, but also with the drying up of wetlands, drainage, poaching, migratory barriers, pollution, pumping, turbining and many other factors. as you can see, this list is long, probably too long. we must therefore pay attention to the preservation of this stock. however, we must be pragmatic and stop making fishing the scapegoat for the problems of the eel population. regulating fishing activities alone cannot be an adequate and appropriate response. the habitats of the species, which are endangered by various human activities, need to be restored but unfortunately this is not what is proposed in this report. the rapporteur forgets the contribution of the fishing sector to the recovery of the eel stock. in france, for example, the sector has made significant efforts and sacrifices to achieve the mortality reduction targets set by the 2020 management plan. the production of civilian consumption was reduced by 65% compared to the period 2004-2008. it's not a problem. the fishing fleet has been reduced by 50% since 2006. efforts have also been made to reduce prices. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. that would be putting the plow before the oxen. i would like parliament to adopt a report focusing solely on alignment with the lisbon treaty without amending regulation (ec) no 1100/2007.
mr president, commissioner, i should first like to congratulate the rapporteur and tell her that i share her concerns about the eel stocks and the necessary protection that the union must give to this species. however, current data from european scientific bodies do not always agree with local scientific expertise or with observations by fishermen in certain regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are informed of the fishing opportunities available to them. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the fishermen are informed of the fishing opportunities available to them. the fishermen have made many sacrifices and most have set up an exemplary management of their business. it should be remembered that today the mortality of eels is regulated exclusively by fishing constraints, although we know, for example, that the quality of estuary and coastal waters is decisive for this species. it is therefore urgent that the european commission revise the regulation on the recovery of eel stocks, taking into account updated data and seeking to address eel mortality in a holistic manner, while maintaining a safe environment for the profession, through stable management plans.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here tonight to discuss my report on the union customs code and the amendment to it which was introduced following the trilogue negotiations which i was able to conduct with your services, commissioner, and those of the presidency of the council between january and may 2013. i would first of all like to thank all my colleagues on the negotiating team, in particular the chairman of our committee on the internal market, malcolm harbour, who has been a real rock in these negotiations, as well as the services of parliament, dg taxud and the cypriot and irish presidencies of the council. all of them have put their hearts into the work during these few months of intense parliamentary activity. i believe that we have reached a real consensus together, which was confirmed unanimously by the vote in the parliament's committee on the internal market on 29 may. the customs union is a vital element for europe. it has been at the heart of the founding project since 1957, when the treaty of rome was signed. it is the cornerstone of the functioning of the internal market and of a large number of community policies, the success and effectiveness of which concern all european countries. with this reform, which i hope we will vote in very large numbers tomorrow, we will give european customs legislation a real rejuvenating treatment. the community code is more than 20 years old. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. modernisation, simplification, pragmatism and flexibility for the states to adapt are the keywords of this reform of customs legislation which we have tried to bring to the attention of businesses by creating an environment which is more favourable to them. our ambition has been to level up the disparities in practices and resources which may exist between the member states, with modernity and efficiency always in the background. among the major developments brought about by the text - and i will mention only the most striking ones - are the introduction of paperless customs environment, improvements in the practical advantages linked to the status of authorised economic operators, which allows companies to benefit from significant simplifications and thus to smooth trade on the basis of a relationship of trust between economic operators and customs services. tomorrow we will also give the european customs union the tools to cooperate as well as possible with its counterparts outside europe in an increasingly globalised customs environment, in particular through the establishment of mutual recognition mechanisms. i would also add to this list of major developments that we have undertaken, the concerted reform of the temporary storage of goods in order to give more flexibility to economic operators in the management of their flows of goods. with these tools, we must now move forward. the legislative process for reforming the customs code has been stalled since 2008 and the outbreak of the economic and financial crisis has caught many administrations in europe by surprise. now that we are getting closer to the goal, when a text to reform the customs union is about to be voted, it will take a lot of will to put into practice the provisions we have decided together with the member states and the commission. the stakes are enormous for our continent. it is a question of giving the internal market and all its actors all the weapons and tools to face globalisation, which can bring us a great deal, if we only know how to take advantage of it. it is not a question of throwing away all our principles, but of guaranteeing a high level of protection for our internal market and our consumers by bringing european customs into the 21st century. i would like to stress one point at this point, if i may, madam president. the implementation of the code in the weeks and months ahead will be at least as important as the vote tomorrow and all the work that has gone before that vote. we have given the commission and the customs services a direction and a framework to implement what we believe is best for european customs. it is therefore essential that all the parties involved are involved in the preparation of all the technical arrangements, all the practical and practical details, behind which, of course, the devil can sometimes be found, and that there is complete transparency, so that the debate and the consultation can lead to an optimal result for the benefit of all. i have no doubt, commissioner, that these are the directives you have already given to your services and that the experts in the member states are approaching these stages in the same spirit. i hope we all work together to make it happen.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i would like to thank all the speakers who have spoken in this debate. the quality of our trade, brief but intense, shows the great interest we both have in strengthening the customs union and improving the customs procedures of our internal market. this process is one of the keys to the growth and competitiveness of our european economies. several of my colleagues have stressed the need for a single system for the 28 member states. i fully share their view - i have already had the opportunity to say this - because it is absolutely essential that we really move towards an increasingly pan-european functioning of our customs. simplification, efficiency and improvement of customs procedures, with the resulting reduction in administrative and bureaucratic burdens for our companies, are the way forward for restoring the competitiveness of the european economy. may we never lose sight of that goal! of course - as some of the speakers have said - these customs issues may at first appear rather arid, austere, technical or even technocratic. in reality - and i have come to realize this after 18 months of parliamentary work - this is not the case: customs matters are, of course, at the heart of the economic and industrial interests of our european union, and of course also at the heart of its financial interests. we know the importance of customs duties, but these issues are also closely linked to the protection of the interests of our citizens, our consumers and our producers, whose security must be constantly strengthened in a world of increasingly fierce competition. i hope that in the months ahead the european parliament will be able to continue to exercise its full interest and vigilance in the continuation of our work, because the work of implementation that awaits us both, through the delegated and implementing acts to which malcolm harbour referred, will be very important and just as fundamental as the work that has gone before.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the state of the union, a few months before the end of the parliamentary term, has a special resonance. i would like to congratulate you, mr president, on your work and on that of the european commission. with the crisis, some might have claimed to have found demagogic solutions. you have not taken this route; you have worked on concrete measures. last year, for the first time, you analysed the budgetary orientations of the member states, the reforms undertaken, and you did so in retrospect. i would remind you that there cannot and must not be two kinds of weights and measures. all states must be treated equally. it's a matter of trust with our fellow citizens. we have to stay the course! this is all the more important as the measures taken are beginning to bear fruit. i think it's also worth saying. latvia has emerged from the crisis. ireland is on the right track. in portugal, unemployment is falling for the first time in months. in spain, major investments are under way. in greece, tourism has picked up this summer. the euro area is also growing again this quarter. but that doesn't mean we can slow down and stop. we must continue the reforms. the commission, as arbiter, has a responsibility in this respect. we have to attack the second half of the game. the completion of the single market is part of that. you said that this morning and i say it again. a more complete single market means at least almost 1% more growth and it does not cost a single euro more investment. we have reached agreement on the wider recognition of vocational qualifications, a victory for europeans. in addition to this, we are also working in the financial sector, particularly with the banking union. there are of course the budgetary reforms and the vet and what you have told us, mr president, we must tell the council. we have given our agreement; it's the council that's blocking it right now. i believe that you still have things to do and to convince, and i have confidence in you. we have made progress before the summer and i am waiting for the council to fulfil its commitments so that we can implement this new budget. ladies and gentlemen, we need a boost at european level to stimulate growth, through legislation and targeted investment that focuses on job creation. we still need to clean up our public finances. some heads of government have courageously taken decisions which are essential for the good of their country and the european union, but budgetary wisdom is not an end in itself. we need to evaluate the effectiveness of our decisions. economics is not an exact science and not all policies are effective. i think we should also acknowledge that. let me give you an example: we've been so focused on services that we've forgotten about industry. where are the services now? most of them are not in europe! we have a duty to invest again in industry to keep our jobs. you can't be afraid to say it. that is also the role of europe. ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis has not only affected our financial institutions, it has also eroded the trust of citizens in their governments. you said it yourself: the financial crisis is not europe's fault. it is too easy to say that it is because of europe! no, you can't! it is thanks to europe and the euro that we have saved the savings books of our fellow citizens! i think it's important. i'm going to go with you. our fellow citizens are turning away from the traditional political parties with these speeches. their faith in europe is crumbling. populism of all kinds spreads easy and reductive schemes. but that is not the answer. we cannot allow ourselves to be drawn into a self-absorbed world which would lead our continent down the road to permanent decline. eight months from now, at the european elections, the debate will not be limited to a right-left confrontation. the question will be first and foremost about the europe we want. history has shown that europe is the best bulwark to protect europeans. we see clearly that for our continent to exist, we need european diplomacy, a common european defence, not to make war but to ensure peace and help the poorest of the world. the less europe, the more failures! the debate we are having today has this merit: it allows us to take stock, to see where we are. europe is on the right track! to secure our future, we need a solid foundation, we need to respect the values we stand for and which are ours. our parliament is and will remain a partner of the commission in building this common future! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the union is going through a difficult time. she's in great danger. why?because it is facing the worst crisis of all: that of the confidence of its citizens. the commissioners and you, mr president, have held the reins. on behalf of my delegation, we welcome the action taken by some of them, including michel barnier, particularly with regard to the regulation and supervision of economic and financial activities. with the governments of the member states, supported by national parliaments and in the framework of co-legislation, we have avoided a collapse of the continent, even if some mistakes were made. the heads of state or government, in the european council, worked in a spirit of sacred union and ensured overall cohesion. i welcome the action of its president, mr van rompuy, although i regret that he has not maintained sufficient political relations with our parliament. but trust is lost. what can be done to regain the citizens' trust? we must tell them the truth, that the member states have lived beyond their means by taking on excessive debt. that we must work hard - as we do everywhere in the world - to preserve our social ambition and our international influence. that we must stop being naive, mr president. we must have secure external borders, effective customs and defend our trade interests in the world without concessions. in bilateral trade negotiations, take into account the reciprocity of social, health and environmental standards. do not take agriculture as an adjustment variable, otherwise you will one day be faced with a refusal of ratification by our parliament, as the treaty of lisbon gives us the power to do. the truth is that today, in the ten most powerful countries in the world, there are four european countries, and every ten years, a european state falls off the list, so that by 2050 there will be none. yes, from the truth will spring light! from this light will be born the hope of the peoples of europe, who are called upon to play a great role in the new world which is opening up before us.
mr president, i listened to everyone, i was there from beginning to end. i know we're in the middle of an election campaign. there are campaigns in various countries at the moment. there will be a european campaign. fortunately, the citizens did not listen to us because we have taken measures since the crisis, we have voted together in the democratic parties and that is going in the right direction. that's the first point. i thank you for voting this; then we'll all go to the country. i will not compromise my values or my faith by engaging in demagoguery. we have no right to do that, we have a duty to tell the truth to our fellow citizens. i am in favour of social and fiscal policy. i fought for an agricultural policy and today we have the same policy throughout europe. if we had done the same at social and fiscal level, we would not be in this situation. that is what we must say to our constituents. that is what we must defend if we are to save europe. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i am pleased, mr president, that your state of the union speech is different from those of some governments who have been saying for months that the crisis is behind us! yes, there are signs of recovery, and there is reason for optimism, but we must not give up. the epp supports a slogan: the answer is more europe! during this crisis, the union has been a bulwark, because who knows what our economies would be like if europe had not reacted. so it is regrettable that the response has sometimes been weak, that decisions have not always been taken in time or that the lack of coordination between national policies has wasted a lot of energy, but the results are there and the reforms in the field of supervision, the consolidation of public finances and convergence are beginning to bear fruit. in most member states, unemployment is falling and industrial activity is picking up. nothing will ever be the same again, at least we have to hope so. if europe has acquired the tools to prevent a relapse, it is now a matter of convincing those states which allow public debt to creep in to make courageous choices.
madam president, cultural diversity - the subject of this report - is an essential dimension of european integration, as affirmed by the treaty of lisbon, which calls for 'the union to contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the member states, while respecting their national and regional diversity'. our institutions must therefore react to the threat of extinction facing several dozen european languages, according to the scientific inventories drawn up by unesco. every time a language disappears, a european heritage is lost. the report therefore aims to revive action on these issues, which have been neglected for too long. the text was drawn up by various groups and was adopted unanimously by the committee on culture. i am counting on all the members present to confirm this vote in plenary. the european parliament will thus be able to set in motion a new dynamic, one that will bring hope to the tens of millions of europeans who have inherited a language and a culture learned from their ancestors and who want to be able to pass it on to future generations.
i'm the reporter. - i propose an oral amendment. i propose that annex ix, point (d) be deleted, which concerns lignocellulosic materials, with the exception of sawing and plating blocks, and that they be included in annex ix, part a. it is very technical, but the aim is to include ligno-cellulosic materials in the list of advanced fuels.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i would like to propose that the vote on the legislative resolution be postponed in accordance with rule 57 (2) and that i be given a negotiating mandate.
linguistic diversity is at the heart of the european project. it seems to me essential that european languages be promoted and developed because they represent an invaluable asset. however, the promotion of languages must in no way become a potential source of conflict between the peoples of europe or reinforce separatist tendencies in certain european regions. peace and stability at the borders are among the greatest achievements of the european union and must be preserved at all costs. that is why i have decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. on wednesday 11 september, i supported and endorsed the report by my colleague and friend, françois alfonsi, on the urgency of giving concrete impetus to the support schemes for multilingualism. our cultural and linguistic heritage is a priceless treasure, and as many languages are dying out around the world, including in europe, it is our responsibility to reverse the trend in a sustainable way. europe, especially since the 2000s, has fallen asleep. the fact that most programmes for the promotion of minority languages were put on hold was a serious mistake. cultural programmes, student mobility such as erasmus, the european social fund, the erdf, etc. are the levers and the arrows can and must be aimed at this common objective, particularly at the youngest who hold in their hands the keys to european cultural diversity. while 16 member states have already ratified the european charter for regional or minority languages of the council of europe, it is again very sad to see the silence of the french authorities on this matter despite the promises made and repeated in the recent past.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls for the eu to commit itself unreservedly to a policy of protecting and promoting endangered languages in order to preserve the diversity of europe's linguistic and cultural heritage. we also supported a language policy that would allow children to acquire two mother tongues from an early age. the eu's motto was 'united in diversity', and it was important to commit ourselves to protecting our cultural heritage, as it is our differences that make us rich.
in writing. i voted in favour of the alfonsi report which makes recommendations for the protection of linguistic and, therefore, cultural diversity in europe. i have always considered that this diversity is a reflection of european democracy. the rapporteur's practical attention to endangered languages, and therefore to the preservation of this pluralism, is consubstantial to the idea of european equality. in this sense, i call on the member states of the union to promote an intensive language policy and, for those who have not yet done so, to ratify the european charter on cultural diversity.
in writing. this text is generous and helps to support a part of the cultural heritage. language is the identity of a people. this is why the founding fathers of europe preserved multilingualism in europe, but it is also why the french constitution of the fifth republic gave france an official language. i abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. i believe that regional languages are a wealth in europe and can enable bilingualism from an early age and thus prepare younger generations for language learning. it is important that local authorities and local people safeguard this heritage. however, the text is an own-initiative report, which is why i voted in favour of the entire text. i am not in favour of the ratification by the states of the charter for regional or minority languages, which can be a factor of communitarianism and division within the member states. the member states have linguistic traditions which they have built up throughout history and which they must preserve or develop in the light of their destiny and not of an administrative court.
in writing. like the vast majority of meps, i voted in favour of this report. this text follows the collective work, throughout the mandate, of the members of the intergroup on minority languages, of which i am an active member. i voted for this report because it advocates a heritage approach to the question of endangered european languages and linguistic diversity in europe. a language is a european heritage. when it disappears, european heritage is affected. article 3 (3) of the treaty on european union states that the eu 'shall respect the richness of its cultural and linguistic diversity and shall ensure the safeguarding and development of europe's cultural heritage'. it is therefore the eu's responsibility to preserve its languages. the report also calls on all member states to ratify the european charter for regional languages (only 16 have done so). the report also calls for the european commission to take concrete measures to protect endangered languages, including more financial support. this text is therefore a step forward and a clear message from the european parliament to the member states, and in particular to france, which must ratify the charter on languages!
in writing. i strongly support this report on 'endangered languages and linguistic diversity in europe' as there is an urgent need to relaunch support for regional languages and multilingualism. the report, adopted by a very large majority of meps, aims to support europe's linguistic heritage, which is now particularly threatened. we have in france, in europe, an exceptionally rich cultural heritage which must be promoted. regional languages are key elements of this wealth and these languages are now dying out, because the public authorities have neglected them for too long. this report is going in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted against this own-initiative report which calls for the ratification of the european charter for regional or minority languages. the consequences of ratification would be contrary to the laudable objectives of promoting the richness of france's heritage and the cultural diversity of its regions. once the charter has been ratified, any citizen who speaks a minority language recognised as such by the signatory country will be entitled to bring an action before the european court of human rights to have the texts of laws translated and to have administrative documents in his or her own language. that would create a real gas factory! france does not recognise the existence of minorities within its territory which as such have collective rights which can be challenged in its legal system. it considers that the application of human rights to all nationals of a state, in equality and non-discrimination, normally affords them, whatever their situation, the full protection to which they are entitled. finally, ratification of the charter is contrary to the french constitution, which states in article 2 that 'the language of the republic is french'.
in writing. language diversity contributes to the enrichment of cultures and i am of course a supporter of this principle. shakespeare, goethe, or voltaire could never have expressed their thought so well if they had to re-translate it into another language. i also believe that regional and minority languages are part of this linguistic heritage which we must protect and preserve. however, i am a legalist and therefore do not want a report on linguistic diversity to be used as an opportunity to circumvent the values and principles of our republic in order to obtain, through european pressure, what our constitutional council has declared incompatible. i have therefore chosen to reject the alfonsi report, which contains provisions requiring the member states to ratify the european charter for regional or minority languages, even though the constitutional council had given a negative opinion in 1999 on the grounds that the charter contained provisions which could call into question the principles of the indivisibility of the republic, equality before the law and the unity of the french people. article 2 of the french constitution states: "the language of the republic is french". no one but the french people has the authority to challenge it and to decree it.
in writing. unesco estimates that more than 100 languages are endangered in the european union. unfortunately, the breton is not one of them. the council of europe charter on regional or minority languages has not yet been ratified by france. it is therefore very important that the european union and the member states implement ambitious and concrete measures to better protect linguistic diversity and safeguard endangered languages. the report states that 'the notion of linguistic diversity in the european union covers both official languages [...], regional languages and languages which do not enjoy any official recognition in the member states'. european funding must contribute to the preservation of our linguistic heritage. the text was supported by meps from several political groups and from different regions of europe, who wanted to send a strong signal to the european union and the member states. i voted in favour of this resolution and i now call on the president of the republic and the government to honour their commitments and to do everything possible to protect regional languages in france.
in writing. regarding the report on endangered languages and linguistic diversity in the eu, i voted against because, although regional languages are a cultural treasure for europe, the text calls on the member states to ratify the european charter for regional or minority languages, which is contrary to article 2 of the french constitution, 'the language of the republic is french'.
in writing. this report calls for the ratification of the council of europe's european charter for regional or minority languages. this charter, clearly ethnically inspired, was declared by the constitutional council to be contrary to the fundamental principles of the french republic, and in particular to secularism. it provides for the granting of special rights to groups speaking a particular regional language in the public sphere, in particular in the operation of public services or the judiciary. it breaks citizens' equality and undermines the free exercise of citizenship. while this system may indeed suit national minorities in europe, it is a diversion from the attachment to regional languages and dialects in a single and indivisible republic like france. such a reference is unacceptable: to claim special rights for a category of the population in the name of differences is an attack on republican equality. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. in a society where distinctiveness and differences are gradually disappearing under the weight of dominant cultures and languages, this report stresses the importance of preserving and promoting regional and minority languages in order to promote genuine multilingualism in the european union. a multilingualism which does not recognise only the official languages of the union, but which reflects and respects all the languages and linguistic wealth of the european union. this report supports the ratification by the member states of the council of europe's european charter for regional or minority languages. the french overseas departments are populated by different languages, including creole, and it is essential to defend and promote them, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the protection of minority languages and linguistic diversity. indeed, many languages are currently threatened with extinction in europe. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to better protect and promote linguistic diversity, otherwise european heritage and identity will be damaged and impoverished. the resolution calls on all member states to ratify the 1992 european charter for regional or minority languages. france has not yet done so despite the promise of françois hollande during his election campaign. a strong political commitment is needed to ensure that all european languages continue to live and that younger generations can continue to benefit from the richness of multilingualism.
in writing. i supported and voted for this report. linguistic diversity is a wealth for our continent but it is also one of the union's fundamental democratic principles. this report defends it by supporting the various initiatives to save and promote endangered languages and by recalling the measures that the european union must take to maintain them. according to unesco, one in two european languages is now threatened; the disappearance of a single language or culture is a loss of diversity, creativity and, ultimately, wealth for europe. so we have to act. this report outlines the ways in which this can be done (measures under the charter for minority languages, the collection of information, the promotion of good practice and local initiatives, etc.). our territories, our citizens and our languages can now rely on this vote to demand action and to stop the pressure-roller of uniformity and to implement the european motto: unity in diversity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it aims to align the procedure for appointing the executive director of the european environment agency with the procedures used for appointing the executive directors of other eu agencies (e.g. the european chemicals agency, the european medicines agency and the european food safety authority). this includes giving the european parliament, before appointment, the formal right to hear the candidate selected for the post by the management board of the european environment agency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to align the procedure for appointing the director of the eea with the appointment of other heads of eu agencies. the candidate will now be subject to a hearing before the european parliament, and the appointment procedure will be similar to that of other eu agencies.
in writing. the role of the european environment agency is to help build a sustainable future for europe. it was therefore clear that it was subject to the same democratic control requirements as all other agencies of the union. this text is therefore a formal requirement, to upgrade the existing practices with the other agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it seems to me legitimate, in particular, for the european parliament to be able to hear the candidate for the post of executive director of the eea, as is the case for the other agencies under the competence of the envi committee.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report calling on the european commission to submit a proposal to update the regulation of the european environment agency, so that it provides for a hearing by parliament of the candidate for the post of executive director before his appointment by the administrative board.
in writing. the groote report aims to increase the powers of the european parliament in the procedure for appointing the executive director of the european environment agency (eea). the latter is currently appointed by the eea's management board on a proposal from the commission (article 9 of regulation (ec) no 401/2009). it is proposed that the executive director of the eea be chosen by the agency's management board from a list of candidates proposed by the commission and be heard by parliament and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety after presenting a roadmap to the committee setting out its strategy for the duration of his term of office. these modest improvements do not change the democratic suffocation of the union or the paltry powers of the parliament. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this technical text which aims to balance the budget for 2013 which was voted in deficit. the amount of eur 11.2 billion is a minimum to cover the real needs by the end of 2013 and we ask the three european institutions to find a solution.
in writing. the negotiations on the european budget for 2014-2020 were concluded by political agreement in july, we had to take note of the draft amending budget proposed by the commission and the council and to revise our payment appropriations forecasts for the next seven years.
in writing. - today we have been dealing with the approval of certain draft budgetary amendments, the so-called dabs, of which i am the rapporteur and which are necessary during the implementation of the budget to meet needs or events not foreseen at the time of the adoption of the budget. the most important of these, both technically and politically, is the dab no 2/2013, amounting to eur 7.3 billion, which is essential to pay the bills of certain european projects and programmes such as erasmus and employment measures. this is a considerable sum, but it will not be enough to cover all the expenditure needs that will arise during the year. we have therefore strongly called on the council to make a formal commitment to ensure that the missing eur 3.9 billion is covered. during the debate in the chamber, i also recalled that this commitment remains a precondition for parliament to give its final consent to the mff package and to adopt the eu budget for 2014.
in writing. this report validates the new council proposal to increase the 2013 eu budget by €11.2 billion. although it is an improvement on the initial extension of only eur 7.3 billion envisaged by the council, this proposal is still insufficient to cover existing payment needs. i therefore abstain, because i do not want to allow this increase in payment appropriations and at the same time to say that it is insufficient. this extension is supposed to cover all the payments in arrears on the 2007-2013 budget programming, which amount to more than eur 16 billion. the insufficiency of the amending budget will therefore lead to the postponement of further payments from the 2013 budget to the detriment of the next budgetary programming for 2014-2020 which is already insufficient. this general budgetary contraction in the name of austerity will be to the detriment of european funds for aid to the most deprived or for research, for example. disorderly management and austerity are too much.
in writing. i voted in favour of this financial text which allows for a shift of money not spent in 2011 and 2012 to the deficit budget for 2013. the under-implemented expenditure amounts to eur 244 million, of which eur 168 million corresponds to appropriations from the 2012 budget and eur 76 million to carry-overs from 2011.
in writing. the negotiations on the european budget for 2014-2020 were concluded by political agreement in july, we had to take note of the draft amending budget proposed by the commission and the council concerning the surpluses resulting from the implementation of the 2013 financial year. in 2012, the eu was left with a surplus of €1 billion, which we had to allocate in the 2013 financial year.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 3/2013, amounting to eur 1 023,3 million, relates to the budget surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2012 financial year and is part of a package of proposals to amend the 2013 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget.
in writing. this report validates the council's proposal to allocate to the 2013 budget a surplus of more than eur 1 billion resulting from the implementation of the 2012 budget. with the eu's accumulated arrears reaching €16 billion, it is absurd that the union should have produced such a budget surplus in 2012. this reflects poor budgetary management by the commission to the detriment of the eu's financial commitments to the beneficiaries of eu funds. i am abstaining in order not to deprive the 2013 budget of this abundance, without endorsing this mismanagement of austerity.
in writing. the purpose of this technical text is to enable 20 new staff to be recruited to the agency. i voted in favour of this text which provides that the increase in the staff of the european gnss agency will be offset by the corresponding reduction in the staff of the european commission in order to maintain a budgetary balance.
in writing. the negotiations on the european budget for 2014-2020 were concluded by political agreement in july, so we had to take note of the draft amending budget proposed by the commission and the council. it should be noted that the european gnss agency and the court of justice will see their staff numbers increase, while the commission's will decrease throughout the next mff.
in writing. space europe is the europe of ambition, of big projects: we are at the forefront of the space industry, and we must remain at the forefront, our competitiveness, our jobs are at stake. the gnss agency has an important role to play in this respect, and i therefore support this draft amending budget which will adjust its capacity to its new tasks.
in writing. - with this amending budget, for which i am rapporteur together with mr vaughan, the commission intends to strengthen the establishment plans of the european gnss agency, which is responsible for activities relating to european satellite positioning and navigation programmes, the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency (eacea) and the court of justice. the commission's proposal, which we approved by a large majority, is budgetary neutral, since the increase in staff is offset by corresponding reductions in the commission's budget and in the resources available to the court of justice.
in writing. this report validates a set of changes of posts for the gnss (global navigation satellite system agency) and eacea (education, audiovisual and culture executive agency) agencies and the court of justice. i shall abstain in order not to jeopardise the performance of the tasks which make these posts necessary. i would point out, however, that the needs of the court of justice are only partially met, whereas those of the agencies are. and i regret the opacity that results from the transfer to agencies of multiple missions of general european interest. these actors are therefore even less accountable to the european parliament than the commission itself. these posts were created in 2013. but they are only offset by staff reductions by the commission itself in 2020. this shows that we are dealing with false transformations of positions and bad manipulation. this is a clear indication of the commission's bureaucratic desire to systematically increase its staff even when it delegates tasks to agencies.
in writing. the european union has established a european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') to express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters for an annual maximum amount of eur 1 billion. slovenia, croatia and austria have submitted requests to mobilise the fund following floods and i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the heavy rains in october-november 2012 caused significant river flooding in slovenia, croatia and austria. an application for solidarity funds (esf) was sent to the commission, which proposed a total amount of eur 14 million to help these countries in a state of natural disaster. in order to show solidarity with the local population, i voted in favour of the release of these european funds.
in writing. through the eu solidarity fund, we can pool our resources to provide coordinated assistance to countries affected by natural disasters, such as the floods that hit slovenia, croatia and austria in autumn 2012. i support the mobilisation of the fund to enable the citizens of these countries to recover quickly from the destruction and losses they have suffered.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and austria following the heavy rains which caused the flooding of rivers at the end of 2012, causing a lot of direct damage.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which covers the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 14 607 942 in commitment and payment appropriations, following the severe weather and floods in autumn 2012 in slovenia, croatia and austria;
in writing. the european solidarity fund was set up to provide financial assistance to areas affected by natural disasters. in autumn 2012, slovenia, croatia and austria were affected by severe floods causing significant damage. in an effort to show solidarity with these countries, the european parliament adopted a resolution, which i supported, unlocking €14.6 million in aid.
in writing. the heavy rains in october-november 2012 caused significant flooding in slovenia, croatia and austria. an application for solidarity funds (esf) was sent to the commission, which proposed a total amount of eur 14 million to help these countries in a state of natural disaster. in order to show solidarity with the local population, i voted in favour of the release of these european funds.
in writing. i support the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to help the slovenes, croats and austrians who have suffered from severe weather and flooding, to enable them to recover quickly from the losses and destruction they have suffered.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and austria following the heavy rains which caused the flooding of rivers at the end of 2012, causing a lot of direct damage.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which allows for a gradual and reasonable reorientation of biofuels policy. through the cap of 6% for conventional biofuels (produced from agricultural materials) and the target of 2.5% for advanced biofuels by 2020 as well as other measures in this text, we ensure that biofuels contribute to the fight against climate change, support the income of our farmers, without jeopardising planned investments and without undermining the global food market. i hope that this balanced approach can be maintained in the negotiations which will now take place with the council of ministers.
in writing. a cap on first generation biofuels at 6%, a target of 2.5% advanced agrofuels in 2020 and the inclusion of casi (indirect land use change) factors in 2020 on the basis of a methodology review by the european commission in 2016: the text voted by the majority of the ep is a step forward towards reorienting our european agrofuels policy. that is precisely why the conservatives in parliament have got the negotiations with the council postponed. the result is a good text, but we will not have legislation before the end of the mandate. it is a missed opportunity and we can regret it very much. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, which are not only used for the production of biofuels but also for the transport of biofuels. without denying the investments made in europe and the importance of the biodiesel and bioethanol sectors, we must now change our biofuels policy to make it a real tool for contributing to the objectives of combating climate change.
in writing. i voted against the report by the rapporteur because it did not reflect the views of our group and did not satisfy any political party in parliament. the european parliament was very divided on this issue, there were two opposing views, and we have reached a compromise a minima which satisfies neither side. in view of this clear division in parliament, we were unable to give the rapporteur a mandate to start negotiations with the council, since the position adopted is not, in the end, representative of parliament's position. the text is therefore returned to the council for a second reading, giving parliament more time to adopt a clear and decisive position.
in writing. i was in favour of a threshold of 6.5% for the use of biofuels by 2020 proposed by the committee on industry, research and energy. the lepage report states that the large amount of greenhouse gases emitted by biofuels is due to a phenomenon called indirect land use change (casi). the calculation method on which casi relies to measure the amount of co2 emitted seems, in the present state of affairs, to be scientifically uncontrolled, defective and therefore inapplicable. i therefore voted against all the amendments proposed by the committee and taken up by the lepage report which proposed to include factors linked to the casi. i voted against the amended proposal because i do not want the casi factor to be calculated at european level. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution in order to have a clear first reading by the european parliament and to continue work on this report throughout the second reading.
in writing. the text will have to be approved by a majority at second reading. it's a good thing, because as it stands, it's based on theoretical models that are too uncertain and artificial ceilings. in these times of economic stress, it could jeopardise investments already made and jobs created as a result of recent choices. european agriculture is finding a secondary market here which contributes to a certain stabilization of the markets, since biofuels cannot in any case be accommodated by high raw material prices.
in writing. i think it is still too early to put the factors for calculating land use change into the marble of community law, even though there is no broad agreement in the scientific community on how to calculate them, and we have only just set targets for biofuels in 2009. companies and all the players in the sector would not understand this instability.
in writing. i wished to vote in favour of realistic elements in this sitting. the proposed text, which is essentially technical, proposed to challenge the investment and environmental policy of biofuels in europe. i therefore supported a 6.5% biofuel incorporation rate against the 5% of the european commission and against the 6% finally adopted. although i subscribe to the philosophy of calculating casi invoices, i did not wish to apply them in this directive because the calculation method is too uncertain. a patient is not given heavy treatment for prevention. the proposal i supported envisaged the emergence of second generation biofuels, which would help to meet the criticisms of food and energy security in europe. i voted in favour of the final vote, however, because it allows for a second reading.
in writing. we have just put the brakes on agrofuels to reduce their negative impact on deforestation, land grabbing and food security in developing countries. it was essential to vote for a cap on first generation agrofuels (the rate chosen is higher than hoped, 6% of the final energy consumed in transport), produced from food crops. we want to feed the men, not the cars. it was also essential to include casi (iluc) factors in greenhouse gas accounting, reflecting the climate impact of agrofuels due to the shift in food production from different raw materials. this was the minimum necessary to take concrete action to address the negative consequences (climate change, food insecurity and the social consequences of the shift of food production) of the current eu biofuels policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. a first step has been taken, but the battle is far from won.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the proposed measures would unfairly penalize the european biofuel supply chains. the directive proposes to take account of greenhouse gas emissions from land use change for biofuel production. however, this method of calculation is based on values which have not been scientifically established. the report stigmatises biofuels as a whole, whereas it is important to maintain the development of this sector which is of interest to agriculture. finally, i believe that we must take better account of sources which do not compete with food production, such as algae or ligno-cellulosic residues from forests, which represent a significant deposit in the member states.
in writing. first generation agrofuels that create poverty and food insecurity in the global south? it is to put an end to this situation that, unlike a right-wing party which defends only the industrial lobby, i voted in favour of this report in order to reduce the use of biofuels, which are only organic in name. to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, i believe we must limit first generation biofuels to 5.5% and promote advanced biofuels, including those derived from waste and algae. i also support the inclusion of the iluc ("land use change") factor in the sustainability criteria for fuels because this will allow us to have a real picture of the carbon footprint of a biofuel in the future so that we can better assess as far in advance as possible whether or not to continue production. finally, i supported the protection of investments already made in order to preserve the activity of certain industries which have undertaken modernisation measures.
in writing. the aim of this directive is to promote the development of 'advanced' biofuels. these biofuels, which are produced from agricultural residues or algae, for example, have a lower impact on the environment because they do not lead to the destruction of natural areas or the conversion of agricultural land. increasing biofuel production poses two problems: agricultural land originally used for food crops is converted into land for biofuel production, and natural areas are converted into agricultural land, leading to a reduction in biodiversity and an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. we have therefore decided to increase the share of advanced biofuels to 2.5% of final fuel consumption. i supported this directive because we need to encourage innovation to make biofuels less polluting and to prevent their development from threatening food crops. the vote will also help the eu meet the target of using 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020.
in writing. in 2008, the eu set itself an ambitious target: by 2020, 10% of transport fuel should be produced from renewable energy sources. in this area, the eu relied heavily on biofuels. however, the shortcomings of so-called 'first generation' biofuels, i.e. those derived from cereals, sugars or oilseeds, have forced the eu to react. some say that the growing use of biofuels will lead to the deforestation of virgin forests in indonesia and brazil. deforestation would generate more greenhouse gases than fossil fuels.
in writing. i voted in favour of a limit of incorporation of 1st generation biofuel at 6.5% in transport, instead of the proposed 5%. i voted against the iluc provisions because the reliability of the factors for taking account of greenhouse gas emissions from biofuels in the use of agricultural land has not been established.
in writing. this report has great merit. it introduces a limit on the use of first generation biofuels and at a lower level than the lobbyists want. this report does not close the debate on biofuels. i continue to advocate a complete ban on these first generation biofuels which compete with agricultural production for food. i am voting against the lobbies which are shamelessly agitating against this text and i want to defend the indispensable progress it contains. i vote for it. however, the text does not clearly state the objective of drastically reducing carbon-based energy and advocates some very questionable solutions such as co2 storage technologies.
in writing. this report proposes targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector, and aims to develop renewable energy increasingly effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including by limiting first generation biofuels, which indirectly affect our environment and compete with agricultural production for food. it is by setting strict requirements that practices will change and that our fuel consumption will have less impact on our environment. this is an imperative to strengthen our policies to combat climate change, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in 2008, the eu set itself an ambitious target: by 2020, 10% of transport fuel should be produced from renewable energy sources. in this area, the eu relied heavily on biofuels. however, the shortcomings of so-called 'first generation' biofuels, i.e. those derived from cereals, sugars or oilseeds, have forced the eu to react. some say that the growing use of biofuels will lead to the deforestation of virgin forests in indonesia and brazil. deforestation would generate more greenhouse gases than fossil fuels. in addition, agrofuel cultivation is blamed for being at the expense of traditional agriculture. this would put pressure on food prices, raising the threat of further hunger riots. however, the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment go too far. they are not based on a sufficiently reliable methodology for calculating indirect land use change (casi) and place undue burdens on european farmers. i therefore opposed it, preferring the amendments tabled by the committee on industry.
in writing. after the initial euphoria about biofuels as the future of clean energy, the indirect problems of large-scale production are beginning to emerge. the cultivation of biofuels poses two main problems: intensive land use, and the substitution of food crops for energy crops. although biofuels can be a boon in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions, their expansion must be limited to preserve food crops. thus these constraints, the casi (criterion to limit the footprint on the soil) and the ghg (greenhouse gas emissions), must be cumulated to find a balance. i regret, as does the socialist group, that the right wing has timidly voted for a 6% ceiling for first generation biofuels. nevertheless, this directive is a step in the right direction and represents a step forward in terms of regulating energy production and a balanced distribution of land between energy and food needs.
in writing. biofuels have long been considered the most effective tool to achieve the eu's greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. first generation biofuels, produced from food crops, have many negative effects. they are leading to the reallocation of land for food crops to those used to produce them, are increasing deforestation, are contributing to food insecurity and to rising food prices. worse, developing countries are the first to be hit by the increase in biofuel production. the european union had to react and correct its policy to promote the development of biofuels. i therefore welcome the vote on the lepage report which sets a ceiling of 5.5% for the production of first generation biofuels, while promoting the development of second generation biofuels produced from non-food crops. finally, i would like to call for the strengthening of food stocks through the european plan of food aid for the most deprived (pead).
in writing. i voted in favour of this revision of two directives on the promotion and quality of biofuels. studies on agrofuels show that complementary factors need to be taken into account to improve their energy efficiency and energy savings in the fight against climate change. the increasing use of agricultural land for the production of agrofuels is causing ghg emissions, known as the casi (indirect land use change) phenomenon. the european parliament voted in favour of 6% integration of agrofuels of food origin into fossil fuels, but it only takes into account the casi factor from 2020 onwards. it supports advanced biofuels, produced from sources other than food. this half-baked result is the result of strong lobbying, but also of the timid proposal of the european commission, which, although acknowledging the casi phenomenon, only proposed to report the emissions of agrofuels related to casi! the vote on the amendments was significant, with the amendments from the industry and environment committees being returned back to back, almost all rejected by the liberal vote.
in writing. our assembly has decided on a complex text and i am not entirely satisfied with the result. as regards a european biofuels strategy, a single solution cannot be imposed without taking into account the overall context. i regret that many of my colleagues have fallen into the trap of the environmental lobbyists and have limited this debate to the choice between driving or eating! this strategic sector needs long-term visibility, both to secure investments already made in first generation biofuels and to encourage investment in the innovation niches of second generation biofuels from biomass and waste and third generation biofuels from algae. i have taken a reasonable position, taking account of the real economy, of what is technically feasible and of the concern not to raise the cost of fuel. i have also defended the interests of european farmers who, thanks to agrofuels, find outlets that could disappear if we stick to the result of this vote. i have high hopes for the second reading and will continue to advocate a policy of encouraging biofuels that is both sustainable and cost-effective.
in writing. initially, biofuel policies were intended to reduce the eu's energy footprint and help combat global warming, but they have clearly had a negative indirect effect on the environment. indeed, land for agrofuels is often land that was previously used for food crops and untimely development of this sector can endanger the food security of producing countries. in addition, agrofuel cultivation can lead to deforestation in producing countries seeking to expand their crops. the european legislation should therefore be adapted accordingly to give priority to so-called 'second generation' agrofuels, based on more innovative and environmentally friendly techniques such as waste reprocessing. the approach taken by the european parliament, which sets a target of 6% of final energy consumed in transport by 2020, should allow a transition from one generation to the next while giving industry, which had invested in first-generation biofuels, time to adapt.
in writing. although it was adopted by the european parliament, i voted against this text, which i consider incomplete. while it is essential to protect our resources, it is also crucial to take into account the results of the latest scientific studies showing that the stock has recovered. that was not done and explains my lack of support for this text.
in writing. in 2007, the commission developed a european-wide eel management plan. in this report it is proposed that the commission should assess the current restocking measures to determine to what extent they are actually contributing to the recovery of the eel stock. i voted against these new restrictions, since the member states are still in the process of setting the 2007 targets and a significant effort is already required of them to achieve good ecological status of the waters. the 2007 recovery plan had already reduced fishing and catch opportunities, so i voted against the final report to support the fishermen.
in writing. i am deeply unfavourable to the lövin report, as it unjustifiably amends the 2007 eel regulation which developed a european eel management plan. the key point of this report is the request to the european commission to make a new proposal for an eel management plan by march 2014, even though there has been a 27% reduction in eel fishing enterprises. the revision of the eel plan every two years is also unnecessary, especially since all states are already implementing the 2007 objectives. i support strict alignment with the lisbon treaty without any substantive change to this regulation.
in writing. the european eel stock is under threat and there is an urgent need for a framework to better protect them. the commission will have to come forward with a proposal as soon as possible, and the states will have to be more vigilant, as it is a matter of preserving our biodiversity and our resources. but let us be careful not to go too far, to the detriment of our fishing and our jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i agree in particular that the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts to take measures to deal with a significant decrease in the average market prices of eels for restocking compared to those of eels used for other purposes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new legislative proposal. the european eel stock is in a critical state and we need to act as soon as possible to protect and conserve it. one of the main measures in the current recovery plan for european eel is not conservation, as it should be, but rather minimising damage to the fishing industry. the current practice of restocking, which involves moving eels from one place to another to repopulate the first, leads to overfishing and has become a real economic activity for the industry. we lack information on the means it uses to maximise the chances of survival of the eels that are restocked. so there are many gaps to be filled. the green group has therefore requested new requirements and new information on the state of the stock. the vote will lead the commission to present a new legislative proposal by march 2014.
in writing. − according to the iucn, the european eel was classified as endangered in 2010, and the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) reported in 2011 that blinded stocking programmes are unlikely to contribute to the recovery of the stock. the eel stock is facing not only climate problems such as pollution or changing ocean currents, but also overexploitation and the inability to control it due to mismatched catch and export data. i therefore vote in favour of introducing a new regulation which will ensure the repopulation of eels, based on scientifically based guidelines which prevent, for example, the spread of diseases, and control the fisheries, ensuring that eels with a diameter of less than 20 cm in length reach the reproductive stage.
in writing. according to the scientific community, the stock of european eels has declined by 95% over the last 30 years. meps therefore adopted a resolution calling on the european commission to present a legislative proposal by march 2014. we want the member states to provide the information needed for stock assessments every two years instead of every six years. the member states which do not provide this information in time may be subject to sanctions. the european commission will also have to assess the effectiveness of the current restocking measures, which allow the recovery of the eel stock. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is essential to evaluate the current measures and to find new solutions to replenish the eel stock, as this is the future of european fisheries.
in writing. i voted against the report because the additional restrictions proposed for this fishery are unjustified. member states are already implementing an eu-wide eel management plan dating back to 2007. fishing is only one factor affecting the eel population, but other factors are also important: heavy metals, endocrine disruptors, water quality.
in writing. the eel stock is in a critical state. the efforts of french fishermen to repopulate water catchments are being thwarted by a gradual and steady deterioration of the environment. therefore, while the total abolition of levies by way of a ban would give the species a temporary and precarious reprieve, the root causes would not be addressed. the fight against poaching, the removal of obstacles to fish migration, the improvement of water quality, the continuation of restocking programmes and scientific evaluations will have to be the cornerstone of the next commission regulation establishing measures to restore the eel stock. this report foreshadows those leads. i vote for it.
in writing. in the context of the revision of the eel directive, i am opposed to a further restriction. this seems unjustified to me since the 2007 objectives are being implemented by all the states and the plan for the recovery of eel is working well. pcbs, heavy metals, endocrine disruptors, water quality, pests and turbines are all factors that have a huge impact on eel populations. fishing is no longer the major factor in these populations. so let us deal with the polluters before we bring the fishermen into the picture once again.
in writing. the eel is a fragile species that needs to be protected. this is the meaning of the community regulation adopted in 2007, which aims to ensure the recovery of stocks and the maintenance of the species. i do not see any urgent need to revise this regulation in depth: firstly, the publication of the report on the implementation of the management plans is still to come; on the other hand, since eels take ten years to reproduce, the effects of the current measures will not be clearly understood for several years. the report calls on the commission to submit a new proposal for a recovery plan by march 2014 and to review the national plans every two years. these measures seem to me to be disproportionate - let us not forget that eel fishermen are already facing significant restrictions. let us wait for the results of the current measures before we go any further! i therefore did not support the report. it is clear that the eel stock must be preserved, but this must also be done by looking at how to reduce the impact of other factors of eel mortality than fishing (traction in the turbines of hydroelectric power plants, loss of favourable habitats, deterioration of water quality).
in writing. i voted against this report because the measures it proposes are useless and counterproductive. the amendments tabled by mrs lövin distort the original proposal of the european commission and increase the constraints on river fishermen. however, the sector has been working hard to restore stocks since the implementation of the eel plan in 2007. the current state of resources does not justify a substantive amendment of the regulation as proposed in the text.
in writing. the single market and the customs union imply common rules for the european union in international trade and the law applicable to customs services. i voted in favour of this report, which updates these rules and brings them into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. i voted in favour of modernising the customs code legislation which was 20 years old. this modernisation aims to increase efficiency while ensuring greater flexibility in the introduction of new customs clearance and control procedures. i found the final compromise satisfactory, since it is the result of interesting negotiations between economic operators and governments. it respects both the obligations of economic operators and the reality of the current public finances of the member states.
in writing. with this report, we will be able to achieve a modernised and simplified customs regulation, to make european customs faster and more efficient, to the benefit of european companies, their competitiveness and employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because the customs union is one of the fundamental aspects of the establishment of a single market in europe, but it can only be fully achieved if its coherent application is ensured within the european union. i am in particular in favour of harmonised implementation in all 27 member states, preserving the fundamental spirit of computerised customs as described in the modernised customs code. therefore, derogations may be granted only exceptionally for a limited period of time.
in writing. i voted in favour of the customs code text which modernises legislation that is over 20 years old and introduces greater efficiency in the use of resources allocated to customs services.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to revise the union's customs code in line with the objective of absolute facilitation of international trade. in its commission version or in the version amended by parliament, this is a text intended to facilitate the movement of goods, justified by the objectives of competitiveness. i am voting against this text which is only intended to facilitate free trade, whereas the ecological and social emergency is more about the establishment of a european protectionism based on solidarity. i vote against it.
in writing. i am glad that we have finally voted on the revision of the customs code. after more than 20 years, the code needs a major modernisation to take account of the new challenges facing customs. it aims to achieve greater efficiency and pragmatism in the use of resources allocated to customs services, while giving greater flexibility in the establishment of new customs clearance and control procedures, in particular for authorised economic operators. this reform was necessary and i am convinced that it will make it possible to establish a system of operation more suited to the realities of the public finances of the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs constance le grip, which updates european customs legislation that is more than 20 years old. the aim is to harmonize the various customs practices which still exist between the member states in order to improve the efficiency of our customs policy. this improvement is achieved by reducing the data to be transmitted by economic operators, computerizing procedures and improving coordination between administrations. this reform will make it possible to control more closely the goods entering our territory, while at the same time streamlining trade and commerce.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the revised version of the eu customs code. customs is an essential component of consumer protection in our country. it is therefore vital that their rules are regularly updated to allow them the greatest possible freedom of action. however, this revised version did not address one of the most important legal problems: the vacuum created by the nokia/philips case-law concerning goods in transit. i hope that the work being done on this will be completed as soon as possible, in the interests of all european citizens.
in writing. i am not against a harmonised system of customs duties but it is necessary in particular that the manner and conditions under which the use of common electronic systems is applied in all member states are clear. in addition, the management of information by these systems is not clear. in the context of the nsa/prism case, distrust in this area is a matter of concern. there is also the question of who will be responsible for collecting and using the taxes. finally, finding a common rate in the context of harmonisation is particularly complex in view of the very different economic levels in the member states. i therefore voted against this report on the customs code, which raises too many doubts about the safety of citizens and the economic aspects of the code.
in writing. the agricultural accounting information network (aran) was set up in 1965 to collect data on the agricultural sector and improve policies for it. this report, which simply aims to bring the current provisions into line with the lisbon treaty, i voted in favour of.
in writing. the eu has an agricultural accounting information network, which collects macroeconomic data (farm income and operation) that are used in the development and evaluation of agricultural policies. i have approved this report, as it does not make any major changes to this instrument, but aims to bring it into line with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the agricultural accounting information network is an important tool for the development and evaluation of agricultural policies. it should therefore be up to date to enable the necessary data on the incomes, costs and turnover of union farms to be collected each year, in order to provide a basis for informed decision-making. the provisions governing it had to be brought into line with the new institutional framework resulting from the lisbon treaty. this text makes it possible to organise this, with a clear objective of simplification and efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because the amendments to the rules of procedure remain acceptable. the delegation of power to the commission to adopt delegated acts in respect of the determination of the threshold for the economic dimension and the number of returning holdings per constituency, which are in turn determined by means of delegated acts, will not unduly alter the current number of returning holdings that will be able to participate in the network.
in writing. the agricultural accountancy information network (aran) is the only harmonised database of microeconomic data for all member states. to date, some 80,000 farms are members of the network, which gives the commission all the data it needs to analyse the economic and structural situation and to analyse incomes, productivity and production costs. by voting in favour of the report, i express my wish to amend regulation (ec) no 1217/2009 in order to align the executive powers of the european commission with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) so that the whole machine can work better.
in writing. the adopted directive aims to change the european commission's powers vis-à-vis the agricultural accounting information network (aran), which makes it possible to assess farm incomes and the consequences of these developments for the common agricultural policy (cap). this tool enables the commission to gain a better understanding of farmers' incomes, productivity and production costs in order to develop the common agricultural policy. the directive defines the areas in which the european commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts to amend or supplement non-essential elements of legislation in order to facilitate the management of the icao network. however, the european parliament retains a power of scrutiny, and the network's data and reports will be made publicly available on the internet. i voted in favour of this text because it was necessary to adapt this legislation to the new rules of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which aligns the commission's executive powers with the lisbon treaty. the proposal does not affect the operation of the agricultural accountancy information network, which is used to assess farm incomes and the impact of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. this report is essentially technical. it aims to amend marginally a 1965 regulation on the network for the collection of statistical information on european agriculture. this network is mainly used by governments, research centres and universities, and agricultural organisations. it is very valuable and very useful in this respect. the report goes in the right direction by proposing that this information network should have a specific and attractive website. i am voting in favour, although this proposal does remove the commission's annual report to the european parliament.
in writing. as rapporteur for my political group, i have worked a lot on this text. the report aims to align the legislative provisions of five directives governing the production and marketing of breakfast products (coffee, chocolate, sugar, jam, milk) with the provisions of the lisbon treaty as regards the powers that may be conferred on the european commission. with the rapporteur from parliament we have ensured that the powers conferred on the commission are limited to the minimum necessary (technical development, etc.). i naturally voted in favour of this text.
in writing. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the amendment of the rules on comitology, we continue to update the directives according to the new differentiation between delegated and implementing acts. i have of course supported mr groote's report on the so-called breakfast guidelines (coffee, chicory, chocolate, cocoa, jam, sugar, etc.). it is the duty of parliament to ensure that the delegations of power we give to the commission do not encroach on essential elements of the legislation adopted.
in writing. the text is essentially technical in nature, aiming to align a set of provisions of the directives on food safety with the new provisions resulting from the lisbon treaty. i support this report because it sets out the powers conferred on the commission to guarantee the food security and health of europeans.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of limiting the delegation of power to the commission to non-essential elements. i am in particular in favour of abolishing the provisions on the power to adopt delegated acts concerning technical elements affecting the descriptions, definitions, sales denominations or names and characteristics of products.
in writing. this report proposes to set a stricter framework for the technical competences that the european parliament delegates to the european commission in the field of food safety. the report proposes several improvements to the commission's original proposal for better control by parliament. in particular, it requires that the power delegated to the commission be strictly limited to 'non-essential elements' of products, i.e. excluding product descriptions, definitions and names such as cocoa or sugars. the report also provides that the delegation of these powers is to be renewed every five years and that the commission is to present a report on its action before each renewal. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i support the fact that before authorising the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states have a legal obligation to collect the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment. however, i would also like to stress the impact that the environmental impact assessment process can have on the protection of historical heritage or on tourism, and to recognise the specific nature of crossborder projects, which are essential for the union's transport policy as opposed to projects with crossborder effects.
in writing. the text seeks to strengthen the obligations to assess the environmental impact of certain projects. it was time, as this impact assessment directive had not been revised since 1985, when consideration of environmental issues had increased considerably. the report proposes marginal improvements in terms of transparency, public participation in decision-making and limitation of conflicts of interest. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. this liberal and accounting approach to taking account of the ecological challenge will not make it possible to radically reorient production and equipment projects in an ecological direction. i am voting for this text so as not to prevent any small steps towards transparency, even though this report is far removed from the ecological planning that is required today in the face of the widespread destruction of the human ecosystem. i am voting for it in order to counteract the shameful work of the lobbies who want to prevent what little is in this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of ratifying this agreement negotiated by the european commission with the cape verdean authorities to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas and the return to the republic of cape verde of persons who have arrived illegally in the european union. our immigration policy must be both humane and clear about its principles.
in writing. i voted in favour of a new agreement with cape verde, providing for simplified conditions for issuing short-term visas. the european union has a central role to play with cape verde as both its main economic partner and the largest contributor to the european development fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for an agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas. the conditions for issuing multiple-entry visas or exemption from visa requirements for certain categories of persons will be simplified.
in writing. i am glad to be able to vote on a text facilitating the free movement of individuals, when all too often the texts submitted to us in this chamber concern only the liberalisation of finance. the visa system strengthens contacts between peoples and gives substance to the principle of free movement, which is one of the fundamental rights of the european union. the visa facilitation will deepen relations between the european union and cape verde and will certainly contribute to improving the administration of justice and the level of respect for freedoms. that is why i am voting for this text.
in writing. this agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde aims to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas to citizens of the european union and the republic of cape verde. it therefore aims to develop relations between the republic of cape verde and the european union and to improve contacts between individuals. it also gives effect to one of the most fundamental rights of the european union, namely the free movement of persons. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it calls for the ratification of an agreement which is moving in the direction of an open, dynamic and social europe.
in writing. in the framework of relations between the eu and cape verde, a stable and democratic country, two agreements were concluded: one on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas, the other on the readmission of persons in so-called irregular stay. these texts are a case study in the complete inconsistency of the union in the field of migration. the first text makes it easier to issue visas to citizens of both parties for stays of up to 90 days. the agreement also exempts from visa requirements members of official delegations and students and researchers attending seminars or sporting and cultural events. such an agreement will reduce the time and costs of preparing travel between the eu and cape verde and facilitate contacts between their peoples. i am glad that we have done so, and i voted for it. but at the same time, the union is signing a readmission agreement with cape verde, the content of which is well known and the consequences for the rights of migrants. i therefore voted against. between a fortress europe and increased trade between peoples, the eu must choose. at least i'm making it clear.
in writing. i voted in favour of ratifying this agreement negotiated by the european commission with the cape verdean authorities to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas and the return to the republic of cape verde of persons who have arrived illegally in the european union. our immigration policy must be both humane and clear about its principles.
in writing. i voted in favour of a new agreement with cape verde, providing for cape verde's readmission obligations for its nationals, including former nationals and their family members. the european union has a central role to play with cape verde as both its main economic partner and the largest contributor to the european development fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of the readmission agreement for nationals, including former nationals and their family members. third-country nationals and stateless persons may be readmitted if they fulfil certain conditions.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to deprive irregular migrants of their rights by applying simplified and expeditious return procedures to their countries of origin. the obligation to readmit nationals also covers family members, i.e. spouse and minor unmarried children. i vote against this agreement which denies basic human rights.
in writing. this agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde allows states to return irregular migrants to their country of origin. the readmission procedure is therefore aimed at suppressing the rights of migrants by ignoring the sometimes dramatic situation of these people in their country of origin. i have decided to vote against this report calling for the ratification of this agreement.
in writing. in the framework of relations between the eu and cape verde, a stable and democratic country, two agreements were concluded: one on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas, the other on the readmission of persons in so-called irregular stay. these texts are a case study in the complete inconsistency of the union in the field of migration. the first text makes it easier to issue visas to citizens of both parties for stays of up to 90 days. the agreement also exempts from the visa requirement members of official delegations and students and researchers attending seminars or sports and cultural events. such an agreement will reduce the time and costs of preparing travel between the eu and cape verde and facilitate contacts between their peoples. i am glad that we have done so, and i voted for it. but at the same time, the union is signing a readmission agreement with cape verde, the content of which is well known and the consequences for the rights of migrants. i therefore voted against. between a fortress europe and increased trade between peoples, the eu must choose. at least i'm making it clear.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which highlights the importance that the union's young people should have in our policies. i am afraid, however, that these demands of the european parliament will remain a dead letter when we know that there is often a gap between speeches and deeds. i am thinking in particular of the youth employment initiative, which was announced with great fanfare by the heads of state and government but whose funding still does not seem to be secured. this is a very unfortunate situation, especially in view of the level of youth unemployment in some member states.
in writing. two reports are added today to the resolutions already adopted by our assembly on the question of youth unemployment. since the beginning of the crises in europe, the rise in unemployment, especially among young people, has been a well-known fact, and yet, as the papanikolaou report wishes to emphasize, few states have taken the necessary measures. the situation remains very worrying, whether in terms of education, training, social and occupational integration. the youth guarantee, which must be introduced in all member states, is a step forward. the €6 billion scheme provides that every young person is offered a good quality job, further training, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of leaving school or losing their job. it remains to be seen which age group we are talking about and on whom we are focusing our action first. in the skrzydlewska report we are calling for the youth guarantee to be extended to those under 30. once again, we recall that investment in young people is essential for the future and should not be seen as a cost.
in writing. i voted in favour of the youth strategy proposed by the commission which is intended to define a framework for cooperation on youth issues for the next 10 years and to offer better prospects for young people. in the employment committee i am fighting to try to find new prospects for young people and to offer them alternatives by investing in education, training, innovation and funding. we need to encourage employment and entrepreneurship to boost growth by using our youth.
in writing. the crisis has had a significant impact on young people, who face high unemployment rates that threaten their future. this report gives an overview of the difficulties faced by european youth and the need to respond rapidly to them by improving their economic and social integration. i particularly welcome the inclusion of a number of my proposals, in particular those concerning early language learning and the need to encourage women to take up occupations generally regarded as typically 'male'.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it conveys a clear and optimistic message to our young people about their future prospects. given the difficulties generated by the crisis faced by young people in europe, it is essential to understand the obstacles faced by the young generation today and to propose appropriate solutions to overcome them. i also agree in particular that a european youth strategy should take account of new technologies and the role of social media in young people's lives, to ensure that all are able to master these tools.
in writing. with the vote on this report, the european parliament wants to give a new direction to the eu's youth strategy, launched in 2009. the aim of this strategy is to strengthen cooperation between member states on youth issues and to improve the future prospects of young europeans. for the period 2013-2015, priority will be given to youth employment. european funding will be targeted in particular at young people who are neither in employment nor in training. i voted in favour of this text, which sets out a number of ambitious objectives for the coming years. the european union must invest in particular in education and training and propose innovative solutions to enable as many young people as possible to achieve a high level of qualification. meps also stressed the potential of new technologies and social media, which can help to innovate in education and create jobs. finally, we stressed the need to support young entrepreneurship in order to combat unemployment and support economic recovery.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report focusing on the issues facing european youth in the years ahead: education, training, innovation, employment and entrepreneurship, new technologies and social networks, their perception of europe.
in writing. the papanikolaou report repeatedly highlights the disastrous impact of austerity policies in europe on youth employment and calls not only for the full mobilisation of the european structural funds targeted at young people, but also for increased spending on this group. however, it advocates ineffective measures such as lower social security contributions to promote youth employment. the 'mobility' of young people, set as an objective in itself, seems to me to be perceived not as a freedom but as a tool for flexibility and the development of competition between workers. once again, a text full of good intentions but heavily polluted by absurd liberalism breakthroughs. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the eu youth strategy, which recalls the urgent need to support our young people, whose prospects are being clouded by the economic crisis and the record unemployment rate in europe, particularly in the south. the main aim of this strategy is to reconcile the world of work with european youth through concerted action by the member states and the union. funds have already been set up under the european financial framework, in particular for the fight against unemployment. unfortunately, they are insufficient or sometimes misused by the member states (last year, almost €30 billion of the esf was still not committed due to a lack of requests). the report also provides guidance on how to improve the situation of young people in a pragmatic way: effective investments to address the skills gap (strengthening continuing training, professionalisation of young people, improvement of computer skills), the development of performance reports and indicators, or targeting unemployed and untrained young people.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has further increased the pressure on europe's young workers: in 2011, the economic loss due to youth unemployment was estimated at €153 billion, equivalent to 1.2% of eu gdp. in a context of still uncertainty, it is important that eu action be better defined and more concrete. i supported this report because it points out the shortcomings of the strategy proposed by the european commission and proposes solutions where the commission was only suggesting ways forward. it also highlights key periods on which action should focus, in particular the time of transition between school and the world of work.
in writing. this report assesses the eu strategy for young people hard hit by unemployment since the adoption of the european union strategy to invest in and mobilise young people 3 years ago. in general, the report stresses the need to create funding that is commensurate with these challenges. it deplored the cuts in education and called on the member states to act accordingly. it also called for an increase in the budget in the new multiannual financial framework and regretted the lack of investment by the council. it's a given, by the way. that's good. effective tools to combat youth unemployment need to be put in place and new aspects such as new technologies and social media need to be covered. it also stresses the situation of young people who are neither in the labour force, nor in the education or training system. the report contains some regrettable points, such as the promotion of 'entrepreneurial skills' and the encouragement of young people to set up businesses, which is known to be dangerous to say the least. although this strategy on young people has its limitations, the results are rather positive. so i voted for it.
in writing. the youth unemployment rate in the eu reached 23% during the crisis. i voted in favour of this text, which pays particular attention to the prevention of early school leaving and to improving job mobility. there is a need to encourage initiatives to promote entrepreneurship and innovative projects.
in writing. two reports are added today to the resolutions already adopted by our assembly on the question of youth unemployment. since the beginning of the crises in europe, the rise in unemployment, especially among young people, has been a well-known fact, and yet, as the report by mr papanikolaou points out, few states have taken the necessary measures. the situation remains very worrying, whether in terms of education, training, social and occupational integration. the youth guarantee, which must be introduced in all member states, is a step forward. the €6 billion scheme provides that every young person is offered a good quality job, further training, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of leaving school or losing their job. it remains to be seen which age group we are talking about and on whom we are focusing our action first. in the skrzydlewska report we are calling for the youth guarantee to be extended to those under 30. once again, we recall that investment in young people is essential for the future and should not be seen as a cost.
in writing. in order to combat youth unemployment, i have endorsed the introduction of measures to stimulate youth mobility and the establishment of a european framework to ensure the quality of traineeships and apprenticeships. the 'youth guarantee' proposed by the commission is not enough, so i have endorsed the introduction of real measures to reassure our young people, such as support for smes, youth entrepreneurship or the fight against school failure. i also voted for the extension of the youth guarantee to young people under 30 and not just under 25, in order to reintegrate these young people into the labour market after a period of unemployment of four months.
in writing. i voted for the skrzydlewska report which is a concrete action plan for youth employment. to combat youth unemployment, the report stresses the need to bridge the gap between higher education and the labour market by proposing a thorough dialogue between student associations and the professional world. in this context, i voted for amendment no 1, which aims to promote the employment of young people by means of incentives for enterprises, by introducing a tax incentive scheme, and for article 76, which proposes the introduction of a system encouraging enterprises of a certain size to offer traineeships under an alternating training scheme.
in writing. youth unemployment in europe has reached far too high a level, and we must take the necessary steps quickly to tackle it in order to give europe's young people hope and confidence in the future. i support this report, which proposes a set of concrete measures to achieve this, including measures to make existing structures more effective, to strengthen the vocational skills of young people and to improve their professional mobility. i particularly support measures that encourage women's participation in sectors where they are currently under-represented: this is a measure that i actively advocate, and i welcome its inclusion in this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i agree that all measures taken by the member states should be analysed in terms of effectiveness, the mechanisms put in place should be evaluated in terms of their evolution and the funds spent should be allocated efficiently. i am particularly in favour of all these measures being combined with increased support for entrepreneurs and organisations wishing to participate in the youth guarantee programme in close cooperation with the public employment services, through tax incentives, subsidies for fixed wage costs and access to finance, which will support companies in their efforts to ensure high quality training.
in writing. the european union has decided to make the fight against youth unemployment its priority. the 'youth guarantee' which she wants to impose on the states is designed to give every young person, within four months of leaving school, a good job or training. that is good, but many member states have already thought of this without you and before you. what is european added value? we are talking about 6 billion euros for the period 2014-2020. the cost is €115 per year for each of the 7.5 million young people potentially affected. on the other hand, the commission will impose administrative constraints and its usual priorities for vulnerable groups, migrants, etc. the truth is that as the elections approach, the union is trying to make it seem that it is acting in order to forget its heavy responsibility in the economic collapse of our continent. once again, this is pure propaganda. only a radical change in policy would protect our jobs from unfair competition from low-wage countries, stop relocations and stop immigration, all of which are ruining europe's social systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to support the efforts made at european level to combat unemployment, which particularly affects young people. i agree that the current measures to reduce public spending in our countries in deep economic crisis have had a very negative impact on the young population because of the drastic cuts in budgets for education, job creation and support services. it is therefore urgent that the appropriations specifically allocated to the youth employment initiative and the corresponding esf allocation be allocated as soon as possible. i also support the introduction of the erasmus for all programme, with a youth chapter and a separate budget, alongside increased support for people working in the youth field. it has become imperative to put an end to the current waste by supporting young people in their entry into the labour market and by helping them to find a job again.
in writing. youth unemployment is a worrying phenomenon but also a sign of the inadequacy of actions and measures to assist this category of the population. in the european elections, the european union will be judged on its efforts to combat unemployment and will only be able to rely on a dismal record. with youth unemployment at 24% in the euro area and 26% in france, however, europe cannot be held solely responsible for such a failure. the citizens expect real efforts, real reforms and this at all levels. the lessons of françois hollande, who boasted of having reoriented europe and of having obtained the creation of a mechanism for the employment of young people, will not fool voters forever, who will not hesitate to sanction this deception. can they ignore the fact that the eu council, the working head of governments, has just made sharp cuts, with the approval of its ministers, in the 2014 budget, which is supposed to guarantee a recovery in favour of employment, young people and smes? the european union exists largely by the will of its member states. without collective will, there will be only lasting failures.
in writing. the unemployment rate for young people aged 15-24 reached 23% during the crisis. among those employed in 2012, 42% of young people worked on fixed-term contracts (four times more than adults), and 32% on a part-time basis. yet, more than two million jobs are unfilled in the european union! it is to put an end to this intolerable situation that i voted in favour of this report, which stresses in particular the need to prevent school drop-out, improve the mobility of young workers, develop apprenticeships and encourage entrepreneurship. parliament called for the youth guarantee, which would guarantee employment, training or a traineeship after a period of unemployment of four months, not to be limited to young people under 25 but to be extended to young graduates under 30. we also adopted a resolution calling for the creation of a quality framework for apprenticeships and traineeships.
in writing. i share a number of observations and concerns with this report: like mrs skrzydlewska, i regard youth unemployment as not only an economic but also - and above all - a social and human problem which must be tackled together. but the solutions proposed in this text are not likely to solve the problem. in fact, to combat the scourge of youth unemployment, it is not enough to criticize timidly the budget cuts made in the field of education: it is necessary to denounce the austerity policies as a whole and to put an end once and for all to the disastrous supply policy advocated by the troika. apart from a policy to stimulate activity, no improvement on the youth employment front is conceivable. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. youth unemployment in the european union has reached record levels with the crisis. yet it is young people who are the future of europe, and it is towards them that the most important political efforts must be directed. i abstained on this report because, while it offers some solutions and recognises the social and human challenge of combating high youth unemployment in europe, the solutions proposed are not yet sufficient to tackle this problem and create jobs. it is also paradoxical that at the very time when budget cuts are being criticised, austerity policies throughout europe are weakening public services, and in particular those of education and training, which are essential to the fight against unemployment. it is important to go further, to denounce austerity policies and to propose quick and concrete solutions for our young people. it is also essential to give priority to assisting regions with an unemployment rate of over 50%, as is the case in the octs.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has further increased the pressure on europe's young people in the labour force: in june 2013, 23.5% of them were unemployed, with unemployment rates ranging from 10% in austria and germany to 64.2% in greece. beyond a general action across the eu, it is therefore important to refine the analysis by country in order to propose more targeted actions in partnership with national and regional authorities. i voted in favour of this report because it takes account of this need for differentiation and recalls the solutions which have proved their worth, in particular vocational training, including alternance training, and the growth sectors, in particular the ict sector.
in writing. this report is the result of a long battle between the socialists and the ep. the situation of youth unemployment is alarming, it was time for the eu to take action. the youth guarantee, erasmus+ and many other european programmes are working for youth employment but are underfunded, this report rightly points out. the fight against unemployment is a long-term struggle in which today's investments prepare tomorrow's jobs. it is a political priority. i regret, however, that the easy answers may prove counter-productive. it is not enough to bring the school closer to the enterprise to meet this challenge, much less to adapt training to the needs of the enterprise. this is to forget the rapidity with which the economic world is changing and the consequent need for an education that prepares our young people for permanent change. they need a knowledge base and know-how that is broad enough to enable them to adapt to future technological developments. finally, i welcome the fact that this report criticises austerity as aggravating the unemployment situation. this is only a step, but it will have to be followed by political decisions and political action.
in writing. youth unemployment is the first challenge facing the european union today. indeed, 6 million young people are unemployed in the eu. the outermost regions are particularly affected, with youth unemployment sometimes exceeding 60%. it is essential that we provide solutions for this generation, which represents the future of the union. the skrzydlewska report looks at several avenues, such as encouraging entrepreneurship, adapting youth training to changes in the business world and offering quality and paid traineeships. i therefore welcome the vote on this report, although i am concerned. we must be careful not to be naive. these answers are clues but not the cure for unemployment. they must be accompanied by a coherent policy. and this policy is not one of austerity but, on the contrary, it requires financial support from the states to promote policies which promote growth. they also receive support from the youth guarantee.
in writing. this text takes stock of the implementation of the services directive in the member states and proposes concrete actions to address the identified shortcomings. i voted in favour of this text which calls on the member states to lighten the burdensome requirements and to remove the regulatory burdens for the provision of crossborder services. however, we have provided that a member state may retain certain limits in sensitive areas.
in writing. to foster growth within the internal market, the commission has presented a services directive. the report aims to take stock of the improvements that could be made to ensure a balance between consumer protection and the development of cross-border economic activities. i voted in favour of this report to continue to promote transparency and the proper application of the rules of the single market in services.
in writing. the services directive has not yet been fully implemented, and this delay in transposition is at the expense of europeans, their quality of life and their jobs. i therefore support this report which calls on the member states to carry out the necessary reforms swiftly, in a transparent and accountable manner.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it clarifies the full potential for growth that a full application of the services directive could have. improving the functioning of the internal market in services, which accounts for two thirds of the union's gdp, should help to make the european economy as a whole more competitive. i agree in particular that joint efforts should now focus on creating more opportunities for business, employment opportunities and consumer choice in a truly united market.
in writing. with this text, the european parliament responded to a communication from the european commission taking stock of the implementation of the services directive and proposing new actions in this area. the parliament's report emphasises the potential for growth and employment in this sector. the creation of a single market for services should enable french firms to expand in other member states and consumers to benefit from lower prices through the opening up of competition. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the single market for services can have a positive impact in terms of growth and jobs. however, we must remain vigilant so that this development is no longer accompanied by social dumping, which threatens certain occupational sectors. the european parliament is currently working to strengthen the control of posted workers, who work in a member state other than their home state (often eastern countries) but who are subject to the legislation of that state.
in writing. this motion for a resolution aims to strengthen the application of the services directive. it should be recalled that this directive, which is the result of the bolkestein directive, implements the liberal harmonization of services within the framework of the lisbon treaty. it is the same directive which today allows social dumping and competition for workers at the expense of their rights and the safety and quality of the services provided. the absence of the promised benefits in terms of economic expansion and social welfare is explained here by the inadequacy of deregulation and the need to adopt new ones in a kind of race forwards which is ideological obstinacy. the aim is not to strengthen the application of this directive but to oppose it. that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. this report supports and proposes to strengthen the application of the 'services directive', the infamous bolkenstein directive, which we have fought against and are still fighting against. this directive puts all european workers in competition and organises social dumping within the european union itself. i voted against this report which does nothing to improve the situation of workers throughout the european union and which will contribute to a bottom-up leveling of wages and working conditions.
in writing. in mrs corazza-bildt's report we look at the practical implementation of the famous 'services' directive, the one that has been the subject of so much ink, both when commissioner bolkestein tabled the proposal and when it was adopted. i supported this report, which stresses the importance of fully exploiting the service sector, which creates jobs in europe. we also propose ways of improving the quality of the provisions adopted in the member states to transpose this directive. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. these points are, in my view, an integral part of the system put in place when the directive was adopted and i have therefore supported them. unfortunately, they were not adopted and i regret that. that said, i have nevertheless decided to support the final text, as it contains interesting elements in terms of the governance of the internal market for services, the development of the untapped potential of services in terms of growth and jobs - without generating additional public expenditure - and also in terms of enhancing transparency.
in writing. the main purpose of this resolution is to take stock of the implementation of the internal market in services directive and to foresee the future stages of its development. i fully agree with the socialists in this parliament in rejecting the final resolution. no quantified assessment of the situation has been made to assess the consequences of this generalised competition and to adjust, if necessary, the excessive liberalisation trajectory of the internal market in services directive. the amendments tabled by the socialist group to this effect were not taken into account, and i joined my group in rejecting the final resolution. unfortunately, it was nevertheless adopted by the european right, which has a majority in the european parliament. the right justifies its vote by the eternal and chimerical equation "competition = growth". and this unbridled competition is at the expense of the wages and social rights of europeans. apart from the fact that this equation is not demonstrated, at what social costs, and for whom? when will we stop competing with european workers? the urgency of social harmonization is growing more pressing every day.
in writing. i voted against this report on the implementation of the services directive. he repeated the well-known liberal arguments: if this legislation, which was so much fought over five years ago, does not achieve the expected effects in terms of growth and jobs, it is because the states are implementing it badly; if firms do not create jobs, it is because they bear unnecessary administrative burdens. and to dare to forecast "a growth gain of up to 2.6% of gdp over five to ten years" ... it is therefore not surprising that the resolution adopted by the right and the liberals says nothing about the consequences of the employment directive. on the contrary, they call for 'mutual recognition' to be used to facilitate the free movement of services where the rules are not harmonised, and encourage 'the gradual opening up' of social services, in contradiction to the services directive! they use the economic crisis as a pretext to call for even more urgent action to "realize a truly free and open market in services"! we must regain the fighting spirit of five years ago, so as not to suffer the double penalty of austerity measures and liberal policies.
in writing. the services sector is an important driver of growth in the european union, contributing over 65% to eu gdp and employment. but the completion of the internal market in services must go hand in hand with the preservation of our social model. the services directive as adopted in 2006 has removed many administrative barriers and thus generated an increase in eu gdp of around 0.8%. at that time, together with my colleagues in the european parliament, we succeeded in transforming the spirit and the letter of the draft submitted to us by commissioner bolkestein by introducing a restricted scope, abolishing the principle of country of origin and preserving the right to work. some barriers remain for service providers wishing to operate on a cross-border basis. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. we will nevertheless remain vigilant as to the application in the member states: we will always prefer harmonization from above to dumping from below.
in writing. as malaysia and the european union are moving closer together politically and negotiations are under way, the european parliament expresses its priorities, fears and hopes for the bilateral relationship in this resolution which will be useful to the negotiators. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. in order to promote the eu's relations with the countries of south east asia, in particular malaysia, i voted in favour of the establishment of partnership and cooperation agreements with the asean partner countries. this agreement will provide a new dimension to the strategic and political framework for bilateral relations, and to engage the eu more firmly in multiple areas of mutual interest.
in writing. i voted for the menéndez del valle report because deepening bilateral relations between the eu and malaysia is beneficial to both sides. malaysia is an emerging power with a certain influence in the southeast asian region. the report will thus help malaysia in its fight against terrorism, corruption and human trafficking, and will also enable the union to forge links of investment and beneficial partnerships, particularly in the fields of trade, energy and new technologies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which promotes the establishment of cooperative relations with malaysia, which also contributes to the deepening of our relations with south-east asia in general. this partnership and cooperation agreement will in particular promote our diplomatic relations with that country, as well as good economic cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the negotiations for a partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and malaysia. the agreement would be an exceptional opportunity to introduce a new strategic and political level in bilateral relations. the report notes that the recent elections have shown that malaysia is moving towards a more assertive pluralistic democracy.
in writing. parliament's motion for a resolution aims to promote a partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and malaysia by emphasising the importance of political dialogue, human rights and fundamental freedoms, economic, scientific and cultural cooperation on the environment. nevertheless, these well-intentioned negotiations are interdependent on a free trade agreement whose implementation will be to the detriment of the rights of the peoples that the cooperation agreement claims to defend. in the face of such hypocrisy, i vote against.
in writing. i welcome the recommendations made by our assembly on the negotiation of this partnership agreement. while our relations with the asian region are strongly marked by trade with china, this is far from representative of our overall relations with all the countries in the region. this future partnership agreement with malaysia will therefore be an opportunity to put into practice the idea of negotiations according to the partner country's level of development, to which i am very attached and which i have advocated in several reports.
mr president, i admire the extraordinary faith of my colleagues swoboda (s&d), verhofstadt (alde), tannock (ecr) and others in the official statements, as if there had never been any lies and state lies. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in iraq, and we are therefore asking the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in iraq is not further aggravated by the terrorist attacks. as if we had not been lied to in the kosovo affair, by presenting the good albanians as victims of the evil serbs; as if we hadn't been lied to about the bosnian affair, by telling us the nonsense about 50,000 bosnian women being raped by serbs; as if we hadn't been lied to about libya, by presenting the opponents of gaddafi as worthy democrats... we live in a lie: a lie by bush, a lie by blair. have you forgotten all this? do you believe everything you're told? remember the latin saying: is fecit cui prodest, look who the crime benefits from! does he benefit assad? of course not! then you should at least have the doubt that has been invading me personally since the beginning of this case! (applause) i would like to thank
the question is "blue cardboard". mr. brok, you are a respected expert in our assembly. you said that chemical weapons should not be used and i don't think there is a single person in this house who would say otherwise. the ban on chemical weapons, however, did not come into force in 1925 - as i read everywhere - but in 1993, when a convention was signed in my country. in this regard, syria has not signed this convention and we see the result today which prohibits the possession, production, and obligation to destroy chemical weapons. (the president cut the speaker off) it's been 20 years since those weapons were destroyed. syria has not signed it, egypt has not signed it, israel has signed it but has not ratified it. therefore, we hold that ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i understand the excitement and the virulence of some colleagues because the situation and the facts are proving them wrong. they thought they could convince us that there were no weapons of mass destruction, even though the syrian regime itself has just admitted this and is ready, obviously in its statements, to acknowledge the existence of its stockpiles. they would have us believe that there is no european policy, at the very moment when it is beginning to appear before our eyes, both at the initiative of france and great britain and under the leadership of mrs ashton, who has decided to give european policy coherence and effectiveness on the international scene. they would also like us to believe that military intervention would be totally illegitimate and inappropriate in any case, at a time when everyone understands that it is the effectiveness of the military threat that has opened a new door to negotiation and diplomacy. i believe that our responsibility as europeans today is the one you are assuming - i congratulate you on that, mrs ashton - and the one our parliament is about to assume by voting on the excellent compromise resolution that was negotiated today - and i congratulate the groups that drafted it. the responsibility to play our full part on the international stage, not to choose between the military and the political option - everyone knows that there can be no solution but a political one - but to find all the means, by combining our humanitarian policy, the military threat and our diplomatic and political strategy. it is this articulation that can now provide a source of hope to finally see the horrors in syria come to an end.
mr president, madam high representative, for more than two years the indignation and emotion have been expressed in this house in the face of the syrian tragedy. they have rightly gained in intensity with the massacre of 21 august. but outrage and emotion are not politics. since 21 august, martial and all too often unilateral postures have seemed to be the only answer to the syrian drama. the use of force must not be a taboo. the military option may be legitimate, justified and effective, but it must always be part of a diplomatic strategy that ultimately proposes political solutions to the syrian civil war. the punitive strikes promised by some countries are not a strategy. it is at best a very risky gamble in a region sensitive to very hypothetical deterrent and political gains. the diplomatic route remains the preferred instrument, both to sanction and deter a regime responsible for a violation of international conventions and, above all, to find a solution to the conflict. a diplomatic solution requires, beyond emotion, to speak to all the actors, especially at the regional level. the dramatic complexity of the syrian civil war requires a realistic, inclusive and intensive approach. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i am quite prepared to accept the fact that the military option, the military threat, plays a role, a role of pressure, a role of deterrence. what i dispute is the strategy of what we have called "punitive" strikes. i do not know what effective 'punitive' strikes are, in a context where we have no political solution to propose for the day after. we're not in a lab, we're in an extremely sensitive area. we do not know what the consequences of the strikes that we call "punitive" and that others on the ground will call "aggressive" may be.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that a political solution must be sought, but i would like to say - after listening carefully to this debate - that if the political solution had been possible earlier, it would have been implemented. so the military deterrent has allowed us to start reviewing our efforts. i thank you, mrs ashton, for speaking out in vilnius and for seeking to mobilise all the countries of the european union together. that is a step forward, and you have expressed it again today. we must support the efforts of the states which have tried to obtain from the security council, which is responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, a response to the enormity of the crime committed with chemical weapons, a crime too great, a crime against humanity. we must, with our resolution, make an unambiguous appeal for a strong and clear reaction from the international community, because without a political proposal, without extremely clear and strong diplomatic action, we will not achieve anything. war existed before the use of chemical weapons, it can exist after. that is why the european union's action is so decisive in forcing the un to agree to the resolution.
mr president, madam vice-president, i am saying yes to a humanitarian corridor in syria now, yes to a wide reception of refugees in the european union. i would like to recall, however, the operation 'hardened lead' carried out by the israeli regime in 2009: attacks on palestinians with phosphorus bombs and depleted uranium. but to date, those responsible have not been punished, justice has not been served. this policy of double standards discredits us europeans, but above all the united states and israel, which are proud to be the champions of democracy and international law. i expect you, mrs ashton, to support with strength and conviction the organisation, by the end of 2013, of the conference, postponed several times, on the creation of a zone in the middle east free of weapons of mass destruction. it is the inevitable solution to the deadly risks - chemical, biological, nuclear - wherever they come from, from syria as well as from israel. can i count on you, mrs ashton, and on what you said this summer?
in writing. i regret that we have gone from the situation of insurrection to that of a possible military strike without doing everything for a ceasefire which is necessary to consider a political solution to which we europeans are committed. i cannot explain why the three european member states sitting on the un security council (the united kingdom, france and luxembourg) have not, to my knowledge, consulted together. finally, i regret that an extraordinary european council was not convened so that the european union, the 2012 nobel peace prize winner, could take a peace initiative and propose to the international community, under the auspices of the un, a path to peace, on the basis of article 3 (1) of the treaty on european union, which states that: 'the union shall have as its objective the promotion of peace, ...'.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we can of course look back and reflect on the events of this summer, but since we have decided to support egypt in this difficult time, let us instead talk about the future! first, let us give the new committee of 50 the time it needs to complete the revision of the constitution. secondly, let us remember that the roadmap leads to a referendum and new elections by may 2014. let's face it, there will be many setbacks and compromises! while continuing to support the principle of this transition, let us remain vigilant as to the direction it is taking. we must remember the need to respect fundamental rights and freedoms - i am thinking, of course, of the worrying situation of the coptic community. finally, let us listen and support the many egyptians who are calling for greater political transparency and who are especially eager to improve their living conditions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr minister, let me first congratulate our two rapporteurs, mrs gomes and mrs giannakou, on these two reports which point out the well-known shortcomings of the european union both strategically and in terms of capabilities, but which, above all, put forward a number of realistic proposals on issues which we hope to see taken into account and progressed upon at the defence council in december. on the maritime side - i think it is obvious to everyone here - we have common interests. we have also made some progress, which is still modest but very effective. i am thinking in particular of the anti-piracy operation atalante, which could very well be replicated in other parts of the world where we have common interests and where we face common threats. on the capacity side, the giannakou report contains many common sense proposals. i want to reassure my british friends, who i still feel are a little sarcastic about this subject. we are not putting all our capacities under a european flag, we are first identifying the capacities we lack and those which can be acquired jointly. no european country can claim to have all these means at its disposal today. so we have to work together, that's obvious. finally, let me stress one last point: the financing of operations. a number of countries would like to participate but do not have the financial means, while others participate in all operations and therefore pay a much heavier tax. we need a fairer system to share these costs.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i cannot resist the urge to ask our colleague mr van orden a question, which goes beyond his ideological stance, which is well known. you know that not all nato member countries are members of the european union. you also know very well that the decision-making process in nato for intervention is unanimous. if the european union were to rely entirely on nato in military terms, how would we react if a non-european country, not a member of the european union, blocked an operation that was important for the security of the union?
in writing. the situation you complain about today is largely your fault, since russia was excluded from the eastern dimension of the neighbourhood policy from the outset. how could the historical, economic and geopolitical realities of this region have been so blatantly ignored? you denounce economic pressures which are in fact political. but your whole european construction is based on the belief that ultra-liberal economic and commercial policies automatically create democracy. with the success we know in china and elsewhere. under the cover of trade and partnership agreements, you tend not only to influence the internal policies of the partner countries but also to pursue the policy of endless enlargement of the european union, while denying or ignoring other interests. you claim that these agreements are unquestionable and compatible with everything, but you already have the means of resolving conflicts. russia is a strategic partner of the european union, a major political and economic player at regional and global level. it's time to take that into account. before we permanently jeopardize relations between the union and russia, and between russia and the countries of the region, we should negotiate simultaneously with all of them and not against each other.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after 20 years of international negotiations, in 2010 the european union and the international community took a new step towards the preservation of biodiversity by adopting a new dynamic strategy and the nagoya protocol on access to and fair sharing of genetic resources. the report we are voting on tomorrow aims to transpose the nagoya protocol into european law and to enable the european union to ratify it before the next un conference at the end of 2014. this draft regulation is part of a dynamic of action and respect for our international commitments in the field of biodiversity. biodiversity is our life insurance, our natural capital. but the crisis, the loss of biodiversity, continues to worsen at an accelerating rate. a third of species are now threatened and more than 60% of ecosystems are degraded. we are facing a crisis of living conditions unprecedented in human history, the consequences of which for our societies have and will have a social, economic and environmental cost that, every day, makes the addition more and more salty. this report is of paramount political importance in our relations with our international partners. the nagoya protocol contributes to the establishment of a system that allows sustainable development for all, in the north and in the south of the planet. it reinforces the mutual respect and fairness to which our fellow citizens aspire in the context of the economic, moral and political crisis affecting europe and the international community. the adoption of this regulation is also of european political importance. europe has established itself as a major player in international negotiations on biodiversity. it has made important and necessary progress, including the adoption of the nagoya protocol. the outcome of tomorrow's vote will determine whether the european union will be present at the next international negotiating table. the role and place of europe on the international environment scene depend on tomorrow's vote. the future of our european economic model, a more equitable, more sustainable model which contributes to the preservation of biodiversity, also depends on tomorrow's vote. there are many challenges, starting with the preservation of biodiversity. however, we must not forget that many sectors of the economy and research, many populations that are directly dependent on biodiversity, are affected. our position must be that we can set clear and fair rules for all european users in order to encourage research, stimulate our businesses and promote innovation, while respecting nature and human rights. it is on ratification of the protocol that confidence with our international partners depends. we can lose all the credibility that we have spent years building, through our progressive positions and alliances, not just in the biodiversity negotiations but also, by ricochet, in other international meetings. can we imagine for a moment that the european union is absent from the climate negotiations and the kyoto protocol? no, of course not! the same is true of biodiversity and the nagoya procotol. the commission and the council call on us to move the process forward as quickly as possible in order to meet our international timetable. however, ratifying the nagoya protocol will not be enough if we are not able to have a european regulation which respects the objectives of the protocol. this is what we have all been working on together in the committee on the environment. i would also like to thank my fictitious colleagues for their cooperation and their work. we have worked together on this report with a view to a strong, serious and balanced position which improves the commission's proposal and strengthens the position of the european parliament. the report approved by the committee on the environment, which many of my colleagues supported, deserves to be defended. this is the case with the 'new use' mechanism, which ensures that no competitive imbalance will emerge in europe. this is also the case with the creation of an innovative financing mechanism and a european biodiversity fund. finally, we call for the european union to adopt strong legislation and help to put an end to the plundering of natural resources, known as biopiracy. each of us - i hope - has taken the proper measure of our responsibilities. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve tomorrow the report as adopted by the committee on the environment and to allow me to begin the negotiation process with the council with a view to the rapid ratification of the nagoya protocol.
member of the commission. − mr president, first and foremost i would like to thank the rapporteur, sandrine bélier, for the thorough work on this very important proposal. the same thanks go to the shadow rapporteurs as well as the rapporteurs in the associated committees. i am grateful that the european parliament and many of its members have devoted so much time to the proposal for an abs regulation. i am aware that your internal discussions on this file and on the procedural way forward have not been easy. this is not surprising, since this issue of access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits for their utilisation is a question which is far from easy. on the one hand, it concerns biodiversity conservation and our respect for other countries’ sovereign rights, as well the rights of indigenous and local communities related to traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources. on the other hand, it has implications for economic values in which the european union has strong interests, such as offering a favourable environment for innovation, protecting business, and so on. negotiating the nagoya protocol took a long time and it strikes a balance between all the interests concerned. i know this first hand, since i was there, as were a number of you. of course, now we do not negotiate any more. we have to deliver on what was negotiated. i am convinced that the report that has been presented to you and on which you will vote tomorrow would be a solid basis for negotiations between the eu institutions on the file, even if i have to be clear that it will not be comfortable for the commission in some parts. the success of this legislative procedure ahead of the european parliament elections is critically dependent on ms bélier getting the mandate so that the trialogues can begin as soon as possible. time is already tight, given that the deadline for ratifying the nagoya protocol is next july and ratification is itself a lengthy and very formal process. therefore, we really cannot afford to delay: we need each one of the upcoming weeks and months to work towards an agreement between all eu institutions involved in finalising the text of the regulation. if we – that is, the european union and its member states – are not able to ratify on time, we will not sit at the negotiating table as a full party when the first meeting of the parties of the nagoya protocol takes place in october 2014. we would only be observers and would have no voting rights. this would, in substance, have serious implications for our influence on how essential provisions of the nagoya protocol will be implemented. not being able to actively participate in these important decisions would be seriously detrimental to european union interests, including the interest of european union companies to access genetic resources abroad and thus produce bio-based innovations. many countries may even stop allowing access to genetic resources to eu researchers and industry. i should also stress that a failure to adopt eu measures on abs in a timely manner would not mean, as some seem to think, that there would be no abs legislation at all in the european union. in this scenario, member states, at least some of them, are likely to go ahead and establish their own national abs legislation in the interim, with the result that we would have an abs patchwork in the european union. this would certainly not be in the best interest of the common market and would not result in needed predictability and clarity for business operators and researchers. as you know, the nagoya protocol was a package deal: european users are confronted with problems in securing access to genetic resources in biodiversity-rich, mostly developing countries. in turn, for these countries to provide genetic resources under favourable conditions to european users, we have to fulfil our part of the deal. that means we have to ensure the compliance of users of those genetic resources in eu territory, so that the provider countries receive a share of the benefits. the aim of the proposed regulation we are discussing today is to create this legal framework for compliance in the eu. if we fail to establish compliance measures in the eu, third countries may start to see us as an unsafe or uncooperative jurisdiction, and become unwilling to give access to their genetic resources to european union users. therefore, delaying the process of ratification of the protocol would simply be against our own interests. moreover, not having ratified the protocol on time would have a very detrimental effect on our international commitments and on our image with our international partners in the framework of conserving biodiversity, including our credibility and influence at the upcoming conference of the parties of the convention as well as in other environment-related fora. having different views amongst the institutions prior to the start of trialogue discussions is not something uncommon. actually, that is what trialogues are for: to resolve the remaining problems and to find common ground for agreement. i am confident that through the trialogues we will be able to find acceptable compromises and arrive at a good outcome: one that is good for the european union, for its researchers, its businesses and also, of course, good for biodiversity. i still remember very well many of you enthusiastically helping me and also others in nagoya, with the common aim of reaching an agreement on the abs protocol and helping biodiversity, in the first place. all the eu institutions, civil society and also business representatives cooperated on this common and noble cause. the eu was instrumental in securing a deal on abs in nagoya in 2010. now is the time to remember those days again and to join forces again. reaching a timely agreement on abs regulation is, without any doubt, in the interest of the european union, in the interest of all of us and, not least, in the interest of european industry. we also need to deliver on our international commitment.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, remember that a few months ago, in this very house, our hands were raised in an unambiguous way to break the taboo of bio-piracy, this new colonialism, this green gold rush. we have said no to the concentration of genetic resources in the hands of a few firms in the industrialized countries, with the dramatic consequences we are now experiencing. we said no to traffic. we said no to the use of illegally acquired genetic resources. the nagoya protocol is currently the only tool to combat biopiracy. fighting against bio-piracy is about defending the rights of indigenous peoples, protecting the environment, protecting the planet, protecting health, protecting food security. the commission has listened to us, but only with one ear. our rapporteur has done an excellent job in presenting a balanced document. let us therefore be consistent with ourselves: i call on you to vote tomorrow in favour of this text which has been submitted to us.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will not be long, as mr gerbrandy’s question was basically quite straightforward. no, it is not a paper tiger. the proposal is to apply the abs (access and benefit-sharing) regulation to genetic resources that already exist in the european union at the time of the entry into force of the protocol. the position with regard to applying the regulation to new utilisation is something the commission is not entirely comfortable with, and that has been mentioned many times. however, the report can still be a solid basis for negotiation between the european union institutions. the existing positions are so close that it is worth making an effort so that we really get a mandate to sit around the table, as mr poc said. not sitting around the table would have enormous consequences, which are difficult to predict. i will conclude on a note similar to that with which you concluded last year. early last year, parliament urged the commission to propose legislation to implement the nagoya protocol so that the union could ratify the protocol as soon as possible. today i would impress upon you that a positive outcome in tomorrow’s vote on the abs regulation will be an indispensable step in terms of the union’s ability to do exactly what you have asked of us.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, the debate was rich and i thank all the fictitious rapporteurs once again. at this stage i would just like to emphasize one thing: if the report as voted on by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is stripped of its content tomorrow, the question of the mandate and the possibility of being able to enter into a genuine, balanced and constructive negotiation with the council will inevitably be put to rest. the aim is to ratify the nagoya protocol as soon as possible. i believe, however, that we have a real responsibility on behalf of the european citizens, on behalf of the european interests and not on behalf of national interests or of one or another industry, be it seed, agriculture or pharmaceuticals. we have the duty and the responsibility to represent the interests of the europeans and to advocate, in the negotiations and the common position we will find with the council and the commission, an approach which is in line with the expectations of the european citizens as a whole and which can contribute to enriching and bringing the maximum benefits to all european citizens and sectors. i wanted to make this clear because going with a warrant and a report emptied of its contents will not allow us to gain credibility or present ourselves at the international conference of parties in korea at the end of 2014. i would therefore draw your attention to the vote to be held tomorrow, on the understanding that the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has been discussed at length and has been compromised and balanced in a way which i believe is the right one to defend today. i would add that when we talk about reuse, we are not talking about retroactivity: there is no question of retroactivity in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. this is disinformation. that is a misinterpretation. i was also in nagoya and i know that the mandate we had for the council, for the commission, in negotiations with the african union, with all third countries, was not to accept retroactivity. i am not so unconscious as to bring it up again and start a pointless debate that would waste our time. so it's not about retroactivity. the aim is to decide that once the regulation and the nagoya protocol apply, a single rule will apply to all economic operators in the european union. the question of reuse is really a question of legal certainty, to avoid distortions of competition within the union itself. i would like to give you a very illustrative example: suppose the european union decides tomorrow that we go from 110 km/h to 60 km/h on national roads and that, as a result, europeans who had bought a car before the european regulation was implemented could continue to drive at 110 km/h on these roads and those who would buy a new car after the regulation was implemented would be subject to the 60 km/h speed limit. i hope my example was clear enough. when we talk about new uses, we are not talking about applying the nagoya protocol to old uses, access, etc. we are talking about applying the nagoya protocol and the regulation to all european companies, in a balanced and equal way, once they are in force.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, i apologize for the confusion in the timetable and thank you for the information which has been provided by the european commission's consultation process, which in a way anticipates the question which the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament wanted to raise here. the committee on employment and social affairs is nevertheless concerned about the consequences of the non-renewal of the employment strategy on health and safety at work. firstly, because at the beginning of its mandate, this european commission adopted, with the support of parliament and the council, a strategy called 'europe 2020', which obviously included the question of the social model and the question of health and safety at work. we also remember that last september, in his state of the union address, the president of the commission said that the question of the social model was an element of the european union's competitiveness. we believe that the issue of health and safety at work is at the heart of this social model. we have sometimes felt that, because of the crisis, even though it made the need for this strategy more urgent, it was being left out. in the same way - we did not mention this in the oral question, but nevertheless - we know that the question of a legislative initiative in the field of musculoskeletal diseases has been removed from the priority agenda of this commission. the question we have asked you, commissioner, is why this is so, when this strategy for health and safety at work is an element recognised by all the actors as being not only at the heart of the social model but also as an element of progress, an incentive for the member states to move in the right direction. what obstacles have prevented its renewal? the committee on employment and social affairs has acted with a certain sense of proportion and responsibility in this oral question and in the motion for a resolution which we shall be submitting to the plenary. we did not seek to provoke a controversy. we want to know what obstacles have been created in the present context so that you can, on behalf of the college, renew this absolutely essential strategy. i would add that since the european parliament adopted an evaluation of the results of this strategy on 5 december 2011, we have looked at the impact of the crisis on the most vulnerable. here again, we see that this strategy would not only need to be renewed, but would also respond profoundly to the needs that have been revived by the crisis. finally, i would say that in addition to this initiative, we are concerned that the crisis is being used as a pretext or argument to ignore these fundamental elements of the social model to which we are so attached. the strategy we had then is a strategy that needs to be renewed, because technology has evolved and has given rise to new problems in the field of health and safety at work. when the european parliament considered this issue, the issue of work-related stress - which was not at the heart of the previous strategy - was very clearly identified as a key element. similarly, the question of the impact of this crisis - which the european union has unfortunately been experiencing for too long now - appears to be a determining factor in renewing the strategy. in short, i understand that the consultation you have conducted - and we welcome it - is an incentive for you to go ahead, but let us say on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs that we are afraid that this strategy is now too late. that, fundamentally, despite the hope we had placed in the european social model, with the previous strategy, there was a small loss in line and - i can tell you this on behalf of all the colleagues in the committee on employment and social affairs - we regret it. we will support you in any impulses you can make to deliver a message at the end of your mandate, but we would have preferred it to have arrived before then. why would you do that? what were the obstacles that prevented this from happening otherwise?
for the greens/efa group mr president, in december 2011, this parliament voted by a very large majority on my evaluation report on the european strategy on health and safety at work 2007-2012. this report was already sounding the alarm and denounced the very worrying situation of working conditions in europe. let me give you some figures. in europe, one worker is injured at work every five seconds. every three and a half minutes, another person dies from a work-related cause. the crisis must not be used as an excuse to neglect the working conditions of europeans. since my report, the commission's silence, which has not renewed these european strategies, is very worrying. it is a year since europe should have had policy coordination on health and safety at work for the next seven years. this legal and political vacuum is very serious. the commission is telling us - and this is not just a rumour - that 'no, occupational health is not a priority'. why would you do that? because it's too expensive, you know! well, we environmentalists say very plainly: we disagree with you! we are calling for a new european strategy for health and safety at work today, which should be fully in force by 1 january 2014. universal coverage for workers against musculoskeletal disorders and the implementation and enforcement of the 2004 framework agreement on work-related stress are concrete proposals in my report. i say this very calmly: it is a moral mistake to turn a blind eye to suffering at work, but it is also an economic mistake in view of the costs of accidents at work, which amount to up to 4% of european gdp, or 500 billion euros. so we have to act. we need an answer now. it is necessary because the european union must protect all workers. workers must no longer lose their lives to earn them. the ball is in your court, commissioner. we need this european strategy. we're counting on you!
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for the interest shown by parliament in transnational collective bargaining, and i wish to thank the rapporteur for a constructive approach. it is clear that in a globalised economy, it is vital to step up the capacities of management and labour in transnational collective bargaining at company level. transnational company agreements are reciprocal commitments whose scope extends to the territories of several member states and which have been concluded between one or more representatives of a company or group of companies and one or more workers’ organisations. such agreements cover working and employment conditions and rules governing relations between employers and workers and their representatives. a commission public consultation last year showed the contribution that transnational company agreements have made to a wide range of important subjects in today’s changing economy, including matters such as anticipating and managing change, skills development, training, health, safety at work and equality, including gender equality. a recent fitness check on the worker information and consultation directive, published last july, underlined the role that transnational company agreements can play in making workers’ rights more effective by supplementing legal standards and adapting them to local conditions. the commission welcomes parliament’s timely report. we are convinced that it will usefully supplement the stakeholders’ views in their replies to the consultation, and they showed wide support for the development of transnational company agreements. the commission will continue to look into whether an optional european legal framework is needed for european transnational company agreements or not. information on existing agreements is available in a database on the commission’s website and we will continue developing this database, notably by including real-life examples from companies with a view to providing input for discussion at eu level.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, before i turn to my report, i should like to say how pleased we are to have you back in the house after the health problems you have had. i would like to begin by making a few remarks on a report which, as it happens, was published yesterday. he knows about the report on the pucafreu project, which is a research laboratory combining ngos and academics and funded by the european union. the isolated foreign miners the researchers met reported difficulties in exercising their rights as children. they face obstacles to access to the most basic social rights, but the right to development and the best interests of these minors are also regularly violated. the researchers' findings indicate that the authorities in most cases give priority to their own interests in reducing the number of new arrivals and rarely take into account the interests of isolated foreign miners. this report is yet another testimony to the shortcomings that exist in a number of eu member states in the reception and protection of unaccompanied minors in europe. the fundamental rights of these minors are not always respected in all the member states of the union. these children face very great difficulties at all stages of the migration procedure. unfortunately, they are too often treated as adult irregular migrants. their vulnerability, their specific needs, their rights are not always taken into account. they also do not always have access to asylum procedures. they often live in unacceptable conditions and do not always receive the information they need, and when they do, they do not understand it. these miners are first and foremost children, children who flee their countries to escape war, violence, persecution, poverty, natural disasters, children who can also be victims - as we know unfortunately - of trafficking or sexual exploitation. fleeing the conflict in syria or refugees from mali, for example, these children are by nature vulnerable beings, and they are especially vulnerable when they arrive alone in a foreign country. the commission, madam commissioner, says that there has been progress in the member states, but that more needs to be done. that's the least we can say about the trajectory of these young people. in the face of their vulnerability, it is our duty to do more. i am therefore pleased to present this draft report on the situation of unaccompanied minors after several months of work, meetings and missions with my colleagues. we must always bear in mind that minors are children first and foremost. i'm breaking an open door, but this is an extremely important point, and the best interests of the child must always be considered. the architecture of my report is very simple. it is based on two key principles. what are we asking for? firstly, in view of the scattered provisions, we ask the commission to produce a manual which will provide clarity. it is not a question of inventing new arrangements but of bringing together all the existing ones. secondly, we are asking for policy guidelines based on the good practices we have identified in some member states, so that all our states have a usable tool setting out common minimum standards to be respected at every stage of the process, from the arrival of the child until a lasting solution is found. the guidelines deal with the thorny issue of determining age, the key issue of the guardian - there must be common standards on the mandate, duties, qualifications and competences of the guardian - the establishment of serious safeguards for the return of the unaccompanied child to his or her country of origin and, of course, the respect of his or her fundamental rights. this is what we are asking for europe to live up to the principles which are its foundation today.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, promoting the cultural and creative sectors to boost growth and employment in the european union - what a evocative title! it is the logical follow-up to my report 'unlocking the potential of the creative and cultural industries', which was voted by parliament in 2001. the objective is clear: in these times of crisis, concrete ways must be proposed to promote growth and employment. the creative and cultural sectors have many interests in common. they are growing despite the crisis and are even proving to be more resilient than the union economy as a whole. they promote social cohesion and the european union's standing and are fully in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. they encourage innovation, competitiveness, social inclusion and a more open education about europe and the world. this is evidenced by the figures and the exponential growth over the last 20 years in terms of job creation and contribution to growth: more than 800 billion in turnover per year, 4.5% of gdp and more than 8 million jobs. these sectors have enormous potential, enhanced by the possibilities of digital dissemination. how can we convince member states to invest in culture and the arts in this time of crisis? there are potential benefits and different sources of funding available: for example, creative europe, regional funds, cohesion funds. european cultural capital is largely regional; the festivals in cannes, avignon and salzburg, for example, have a significant impact on these cities and their regions. the union must encourage regions to use european funds to support their creative industries and to improve the economic value of their cultural heritage. the arguments are obvious: the significant economic potential of the cultural and creative sectors, their contribution to cultural diversity and social cohesion, the real need to implement a dynamic at eu level to stimulate their development, regulatory frameworks on competition and taxation, new financial instruments, training of professionals, better circulation of cultural works, digitisation of heritage, translation, dubbing and subtitling, new business models, protection of copyright, respect for intellectual property, an attractive legal offer. it should be noted that the press and publishing are important sectors of activity which also contribute to media pluralism and cultural diversity. the european union must support this cultural and creative 'ecosystem' which is conducive to innovation, competitiveness, social inclusion and education open to the world. it is essential for cultural diversity and represents a certain added value and a driving force for the socioeconomic development of our territories, which moreover cannot be relocated. at the crossroads of art, the world, business and technology, the creative and cultural sectors are also important for innovation and economic impact. they are now an integral part of territorial development strategies at all levels, local or regional, especially as these sectors often employ more young people than the rest of the economy. investment in the creative and cultural sectors is a leverage effect, as demonstrated, for example, by the european capitals of culture. these sectors create value and jobs, often not transferable. faced with the challenge of globalisation, europe can benefit from these export sectors. ladies and gentlemen, in a fragile economic context, europe must both promote and enhance the cultural and creative sectors, while taking account of their specificities.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, we have finally crossed another fence in our race to cross another fence which, as you said, is not finished, but it is always a step forward and i think that sven giegold, whom i congratulate, and marianne thyssen for all the work they have done in this case, was right to say that it was a considerable step forward. we should remember, for example, the request made by parliament at the time of the de larosière report to move towards integrated supervision. it was not that long ago -- we're very old -- it was only in 2010, when it seemed unattainable. so a little self-satisfaction now and then, commissioner, without going too far, does not hurt. as regards implementation, it is nevertheless obvious that we must be aware - i will be addressing the european central bank, even though we are here among ourselves - that it is a considerable change to entrust this new task to the ecb. on the one hand, because we are moving from a narrow monetary mandate to another function, and on the other hand - as we have seen in our discussions with the commission - because we have to invent an accountability which, until now, has not been our custom. therefore, the implementation decisions that the ecb will take are absolutely crucial. i have two regrets. the first is that we are still faced with this problem of whether or not to belong to the euro area. we wanted to be as inclusive as possible. i believe that non-euro area countries which join a system must commit themselves as much as possible to staying in it and not to leave it at the first difficulty. i hope that they will at least apply this text in that spirit. i also think it is regrettable that we have nevertheless granted member countries a veto on decisions of the banking authority in a matter which is within the scope of the internal market. we may have to come back to this point one day, but we do not live in an ideal world. last point: yes, resolution is very important. you heard what guy verhofstadt said yesterday: we are prepared to do everything to go as fast as possible. the text must be adopted before the end of this parliamentary term. you can't leave files in the drawers. why would you do that? because all the great growth speeches depend on our ability to actually accomplish our mission together, as we have done -- i believe -- this time.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank each and every one of you for these speeches and, above all, for your vigilance, your proposals and your commitment over the last 12 months. as marianne thyssen said, the banking union we are building, the first major pillar of which will be strengthened by your vote today - i hope so - is one of the keys to the confidence of citizens, of savers, who have been so shaken by all these crises. but it is not just that, mrs thyssen. the citizens' confidence in europe - as we saw a few days ago at the g20 in st petersburg - is also one of the keys to the confidence of other regions of the world in europe, which has been rebuilt over the last year or two - i think - thanks to all the decisions that we are patiently and tenaciously taking to learn from the crisis. i share your view that we must now make a strong commitment to the second pillar of the banking union, the european resolution mechanism, and i would like to express my thanks and encouragement to elisa ferreira again, not only for her support but also for the work she has begun to move quickly on this subject. in this respect, the comments made yesterday by sylvie goulard and guy verhofstadt on the fastest possible process we could find here are welcome, as is what will be said by the finance ministers whom i will meet tomorrow in vilnius. i also want to tell mr morganti that these texts will not mark the end of our work. i proposed last week a new regulation on shadow banking, what is called shadow banking. i will be introducing new regulations next week to govern the creation or operation of benchmarks. on the point raised by mr morganti, namely the best management, the clear separation of the risks associated with the investment banking business and the traditional consumer banking business, i will make proposals following the liikanen report next november. i would also like to say to mr zijlstra that we have carefully - and this has taken a lot of work on the part of all of us - ensured that there is a clear separation within the european central bank between its original, fundamental and independent task of ensuring monetary stability - the ecb's primary role - and the new role which the treaty has provided for and which we are implementing today, namely supervision. i also want to tell mrs swinburne that i share her view - as sylvie goulard has said - on the role that countries which have not yet joined the euro area or would like to join voluntarily should play in this supervisory mechanism, a membership which comes with rights and duties, while respecting, as mrs swinburne has said, the integrity of the 28 countries of the single market, which i hold as dear as you do. mrs wortmann-kool - i thank her for her support - and mr lamberts have mentioned the assessment of the balance sheet of the banks, which is a very important point. this is an exercise which the european central bank wanted to carry out before taking on its supervisory role. i think it is important that this exercise be conducted rigorously and methodically, as you have requested, mrs wortmann-kool. you suggest that this exercise be conducted by an independent third party. at the same time, it is quite logical that the supervisor, the european central bank, should itself have a thorough knowledge of the balance sheets of the banks. this is also part of a more general approach. the european banking authority - and we, mr klute, have ensured that its role and its tasks are maintained - will have to carry out an evaluation exercise covering the 28 countries of the european union. the important thing, mrs wortmann-kool, whatever these exercises may be and whoever is carrying them out, is the seriousness with which they are carried out and the robustness of the underlying assumptions. finally, mr sven giegold - whom i thank again, as well as mrs marianne thyssen, for their work as rapporteurs - mr philippe lamberts and mr jürgen klute raised the question of the powers of parliamentary control you asked for. i am very pleased with the final interinstitutional agreement between your parliament and the european central bank. this has not been an easy task, but i have been able to understand and support your willingness to take your place in a democratic way and to assume your responsibilities in this accountability mechanism. there are of course requirements of confidentiality that must be understood but i think that, thanks to your work, we have finally reached this point too - to allow your vote earlier - to a balanced compromise which i am very pleased about. we are not finished - i will not indulge in complacency; we will only be happy with our work when it is finished. the banking union will now have its first pillar. for it to be strong and functional, it will have to have its second pillar, namely the resolution of deficiencies, by next year, 2014. we must work on this now, mrs ferreira, with the same determination and the same collective concern to succeed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. if we give up the possibility of carrying the codecision procedure through to the end, that is the beginning of giving up our power as a parliament. that's why the proposal is right! let us return the report to the committee, because what is now being negotiated and concluded is also contrary to what was voted on in the committee. that is why it is absolutely essential that we do today what has been proposed, namely to return the report to committee, so that this parliament does not simply give up its power!
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank you for allowing me to speak for a minute on the two votes which have just taken place and which, ladies and gentlemen, are - i say it as i think it is - among the most important votes of your mandate. i would like to thank each and every one of you very sincerely, but also, in particular, marianne thyssen and sven giegold. i also thank you, mr president, for the constructive dialogue you have had in the last few days with president draghi. we are building the banking union. we are learning from the financial crisis, which is not over. we have worked on 28 texts which i have presented to you over the last three years to restore accountability, transparency and morality in the financial markets. saving or preserving taxpayers, protecting savers, financing the projects of consumers and businesses, who need credit to invest: this is what we are doing at the same time as we are gradually restoring citizens' confidence in the euro and the confidence of other parts of the world in europe. i want to thank you for that. we're not done with this. we have the second pillar of banking union, which we will work on with the same determination, as guy verhofstadt suggested yesterday with elisa ferreira, your rapporteur. this second pillar is necessary for this banking union project, which is, from my point of view - and i say this as i think it is - the most important project for europe since the creation of the euro.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, in order to ensure that the european union is present at the negotiating table of the forthcoming international conference on biodiversity, i propose that you postpone the vote on the legislative proposal under rule 57 (2) and give me a mandate to open negotiations with the council with a view to a vote on this regulation at first reading.
in writing. i voted in favour of this annual report which welcomes the work of the ombudsman of the european union, mr diamandouros, who will retire on 1 october 2013 and consequently resign from his duties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman, which was the last under the diamandouros presidency. the irishwoman o'reilly will succeed him and will be the first woman elected european ombudsman. the role of the european ombudsman is very important, as it aims to investigate cases of maladministration by the european institutions, such as lack of transparency, or refusal to provide information or documents.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i particularly appreciated the work of the european ombudsman on the publication of a new edition of the european code of good administrative behaviour, which helps to clarify administrative work within the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the ombudsman's activity in 2012. the ombudsman recorded 2 442 complaints. 740 of these were within its mandate, representing 30% of the complaints registered. the ombudsman opened 450 inquiries, of which 85.3% were complaints from citizens and 14.7% from companies, associations or other legal entities.
in writing. the european ombudsman's task is to strengthen the rights of european citizens by acting as their intermediary with the european authorities. it is thus empowered to receive complaints against maladministration by the union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. in 2012, its activities included making the voices of those opposing the expansion of vienna airport in austria heard in the form of a special litigation report presented to parliament. it is thus helping to combat some of the larger, unnecessary projects. its capacity and powers, however, remain very limited in the face of the european commission's constant use of force against the people. the ombudsman is thus a drop of democratic water in the european ocean of opacity and oligarchy.
in writing. while the left in the european parliament voted against this text, i supported it because it provides for the possibility of quickly and temporarily suspending the visa exemption for certain third countries (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, etc.) in the event of an emergency. this seems to me to be a pragmatic measure and necessary for the proper management of the european union's borders.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reciprocity rules allowing the eu to re-introduce the visa requirement for nationals of countries that impose this requirement on eu citizens. in view of the significant increases in migrants arriving in france from the balkans, i also granted the eu the right to temporarily suspend its visa-free regime to stop immigration, but only as a last resort.
in writing. this text will enable us to use a safeguard clause to temporarily but reactively suspend the visa exemption for certain third countries in the event of an emergency. it is an important text for europeans, and a measure we have been advocating for a long time. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. i voted against this report because i believe that the rights of the european parliament are being violated here, and i do not wish to endorse this abdication of power for which the conservatives and liberals are directly responsible. while i consider the visa issue to be extremely important, both in terms of the reciprocity mechanism and the safeguard clause for the suspension of visa liberalisation, i consider that the outcome of the negotiations also remains largely unsatisfactory, in that it proposes a reciprocity mechanism which is unlikely to apply, particularly to the 'strategic partners' of the member states. i am afraid that the adoption of such a text is only intended to send a message of firmness against any abuse of visa liberalization programmes, which is not satisfactory. finally, the legality of such an agreement, which would abolish the delegated acts concerning the visa suspension mechanism, is highly questionable.
in writing. the visa system is an integral part of european migration policy. in view of the deviations in visa policy observed in recent years, the european union has decided to respond by introducing a policy of fair compensation and deterrence. i welcome that approach. by imposing stricter rules based on the principle of reciprocity on states which were previously exempt from the visa requirement, the european union is curbing abusive practices and holding states to account while promoting solidarity among member states for a more pragmatic management of our borders. from now on, any national who travels to an eu country on false grounds to stay there illegally or who files unfounded asylum applications will be held responsible by his or her home country. in the event of excessive migratory pressure from that state, it will be possible to suspend this exemption and re-establish the visa requirement until the state concerned takes the necessary measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this reform of the european visa policy: it will now be possible to temporarily reintroduce the visa requirement in the event of a rapid and substantial increase in illegal entries into the european territory. in addition, a collective reaction will now be possible to denounce a third country which still imposes a visa requirement on the nationals of certain member states. the principle of reciprocity will make it possible to re-introduce the visa requirement for the third country concerned. this text provides important tools in case of excessive pressure on european asylum systems.
in writing. the present report proposes to tighten the conditions for movement within the eu by suspending the visa exemption for third country nationals, using mainly statistical criteria for countries for which there is an increase in the need to move within the eu. this security objective is complemented by the use of the police advisory services of frontex and europol. they are the ones who draw up the list of countries concerned by the visa waiver suspension procedure! these provisions in relation to third countries cannot be used to establish good diplomatic relations in the future, as their nationals are considered potential threats to the eu. i am voting against this text.
in writing. although the creation of the european banking authority (eba) in 2010 helped to improve cooperation between national supervisors, the crisis showed that this was not enough. the text i supported is limited to a practical adjustment of the arrangements allowing the eba to take account of the allocation of supervisory tasks to the ecb and to continue to protect the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of the market.
in writing. the spanish banking crisis has confirmed the need for a strong crisis shield for the euro area. governments can no longer continue to bail out banks without addressing the root causes of the problem. the bailout of banks with european taxpayers' money must stop! it should be recalled that between 2008 and 2011, €4.5 trillion of public aid was injected, further increasing public deficits. the european parliament has therefore given its green light to the creation of a single supervisor of the euro area banks: the ecb. the giegold and thyssen reports, for which i voted, have ensured that the commission acts in a transparent manner by regularly reporting to parliament on its activities.
in writing. as part of the gradual establishment of a banking union, this report aims to adjust the responsibilities of the european banking authority vis-à-vis the european central bank. we had to ensure the integrity, efficiency and functioning of the internal market for financial services and the stability of the financial system as a whole. i therefore voted in favour of the details of the organisation of this european banking authority.
in writing. thanks to this text, the banking union will finally be able to come into being. i particularly support the idea that the european banking authority will have to develop a european supervisory manual in consultation with the national supervisory authorities to identify best supervisory practices.
in writing. the banks' difficulties are largely due to an absurd deregulation of the financial sector but also to the lack of serious european supervision. the granting of the ecb of the single supervisory capacity for european banks is therefore a major step forward. but this considerable change gives the bank much more responsibility. the increase in the ecb's powers must therefore be accompanied by greater transparency in its activities and by arrangements for democratic scrutiny by the european parliament. the single supervisory mechanism must also maintain a balance between the euro area and non-euro area countries and be fully compatible with the rules of the single market. the european union must therefore quickly adopt such a mechanism to restore confidence in the euro area, but in future it will be necessary to pay attention to its proper functioning.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text in order to strengthen the european central bank and contribute to the safety and soundness of credit institutions and the stability of the financial system within the eu and in each member state. i am in particular in favour of introducing early intervention powers for the competent national authorities and powers to adopt precautionary measures to ensure full and effective supervision in the union. the role of national parliaments is strengthened by this text, while ensuring effective cooperation with the union's institutions.
in writing. i supported the creation of a new banking supervision system to bring nearly 130 european banking groups under the direct supervision of the european central bank and to hold bankers more accountable for the effects of their actions in the real economy. this supervisory mechanism is essential to break the vicious circle between private and sovereign debt and to ensure the safety of our citizens' deposits. we must end financial fragmentation in order to ensure stable financing of the real economy for growth, which is why the establishment of the banking union must remain a priority.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which is an adjustment of the procedures under which the european banking authority operates in relation to the supervisory tasks conferred on the european central bank and to ensure that the eba will continue its functions of protecting the integrity, efficiency and the proper functioning of the internal market for financial services.
in writing. this report sets out the role, tasks and means of action of the european banking authority in the field of prudential supervision of banks. several provisions are aimed at greater control of financial activities. the text also provides that the authority may prohibit certain activities in an emergency in the event of excessive risks. the report also proposes that the european parliament appoint six people to the eba's board of directors, as opposed to none at present. but the main decisions will still be taken by the council of supervisory authorities, where the heads of the national authorities sit, so it is a false appearance. but this regulation is fully in line with the banking union decided by sarkozy and merkel, and validated by hollande. it therefore confirms the role of the european central bank and its independence. he even claims the independence of the latter. i cannot vote for such a text. i vote against this mock trial.
in writing. in addition to the sovereign debt crisis, some banks are fragile and exposed to the subprime crisis and the loss of some government bonds. in this context of a combination of heavy pressure on public accounts and private banks, everyone has been sucked in. indeed, any attempt by the public sector to save a private banking sector automatically meant an accumulation of debt beyond what was reasonable, reviving the unhealthy speculation of some vultures about the bankruptcy of countries such as spain or italy. this vicious circle gave rise to the idea of extending to private banks the european stability mechanism, originally designed to help the eurozone states in difficulty. the counterpart to this european aid to the banks is the establishment of supervision of their activities by the european central bank. our vote validates this new scaffolding and i welcome it. the ecb will now scrupulously monitor compliance by the 6000 largest european banks with the new sound financial health requirements, thereby preventing a further relapse that would affect the eu as a whole and undermine the economic recovery that is in sight.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which gives the ecb the ultimate responsibility and power to intervene in any credit institution in each member state participating in the single supervisory mechanism (including euro area countries and non-euro area countries participating in the mechanism).
in writing. the spanish banking crisis has confirmed the need for a strong crisis shield for the euro area. governments can no longer continue to bail out banks without addressing the root causes of the problem. the bailout of banks with european taxpayers' money must stop! it should be recalled that between 2008 and 2011, €4.5 trillion of public aid was injected, further increasing public deficits. the european parliament has therefore given its green light to the creation of a single supervisor of the euro area banks: the ecb. the giegold and thyssen reports, for which i voted, have ensured that the commission acts in a transparent manner by regularly reporting to parliament on its activities.
in writing. as part of the gradual establishment of a banking union, this report aims to define the powers and tasks of the european central bank. it will therefore be entrusted with the task of supervising the activities of financial institutions in the member states using the single currency. i therefore voted in favour of delegating such a task to the ecb in order to promote the security and soundness of our european financial system.
in writing. the banking union will finally take shape with this vote. the new supervisory tasks of the european central bank will give us an overview of the health of the banking sector and its stakeholders. it is a vital step towards the creation of a truly european euro. i particularly welcome the emphasis on strengthening the democratic accountability of the ecb.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text in order to strengthen the european central bank and to contribute to the safety and soundness of credit institutions and to the stability of the financial system within the eu and in each member state. i am in particular in favour of introducing early intervention powers for the competent national authorities and powers to adopt precautionary measures to ensure full and effective supervision in the union. the role of national parliaments is strengthened by this text, while ensuring effective cooperation with the union's institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is high time, after the banking crisis of recent years and the deep economic crisis which is still having its full effect, that we undertook a major reform to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. i am particularly in favour of strengthening the democratic accountability of the ecb, which means in particular that the european parliament approves the appointment of those responsible for supervision and that there is better access to documents.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text which provides for specific tasks for the ecb in the field of the prudential supervision of credit institutions established in the member states. the ecb will be exclusively responsible for key supervisory tasks to identify risks to the viability of banks that require necessary action.
in writing. this report endorses the strengthening of the powers of the independent european central bank. the regulation endorsed by this report concentrates ultimate powers of bank accreditation, supervision and regulation of the major european banks with the ecb. the ecb also has specific supervisory tasks, which were previously assigned to the central banks and supervisory and control bodies of the eurosystem countries. it is not to be forgotten that the ecb has organised an act of war against cyprus by cutting off the circulation of euro money in that country on its own initiative. although the report provides for the ecb to be accountable for its new activities as a banking regulator, it reinforces its independence outside any democratic framework. i am voting against this new stage in the financial coup d'état in which the european union has become the instrument.
in writing. i voted in favour of ratifying the nagoya protocol as it is an essential instrument for the protection and good management of genetic resources. i nevertheless expressed my concern about the possible consequences for the activities of small seed producers and users. the answers to these questions will have to be found in the negotiations which are now about to begin with the council of ministers of the union.
in writing. the nagoya protocol, signed in 2010, aims to preserve biodiversity through regulations on access to and sharing of genetic resources. i welcome the ambitious report by sandrine bélier, which commits the eu to the transposition of this protocol. i fully share his concerns about the loss of biodiversity and the need for a fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge. i regret, however, that the rapporteur's proposal to create an eu fund for benefit-sharing was rejected by a majority of members.
in writing. as part of the eu's ratification of the nagoya protocol, the eu decided to have a new instrument for the conservation of biodiversity. the rapporteur has proposed ambitious objectives, going so far as to propose the retroactivity of commitments in terms of the protection of biodiversity. i voted against these measures because, although we must respect the commitments made in the nagoya protocol, we must avoid creating intolerable administrative conditions for operators and making access to genetic resources extremely complicated and legally risky. as things stand, i have voted against the rapporteur's report. but since the positions of the commission and the council are more reasonable, i voted in favour of the rapporteur's negotiating mandate, so that she can start the informal negotiations with the council.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bélier report which transposes into european law the nagoya protocol, an international treaty adopted in 2010 by the parties to the convention on biological diversity. this report guarantees that only legally acquired genetic resources will be used by researchers and businesses. i voted against amendment no 37 by the rapporteur. this amendment would have required operators to ensure retroactively that the resources used were acquired legally. this would have resulted in complicated and administratively untenable conditions for the use of these resources.
in writing. despite disagreements on some parts of the report, i voted in favour of the rapporteur's negotiating mandate. it is important that the eu ratifies the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources under this parliament's mandate in order to retain its influence and influence in the decisions to be taken at the conference of the parties to the united nations convention on biological diversity in october 2014 in south korea. without ratification, the eu will simply have observer status. on amendment no 37, i voted against extending the scope to marketing and subsequent applications to avoid retroactivity and legal uncertainty. i voted against amendment no 60 to exclude the application for patents or rights relating to a new plant variety from the scope of the obligations.
in writing. i voted for the transposition of the nagoya protocol, which is today the only international tool to combat biopiracy. as in the vote on my report on bio-piracy last january, the ep has once again clearly said 'no!' to the concentration of the world's genetic resources and traditional knowledge in the hands of a few firms in the industrialised countries, with the dramatic consequences for indigenous peoples and small farmers. and 'no! to trafficking and use of illegally acquired genetic resources. after months of mobilisation in our various committees in the european parliament and a real obstacle course, it was essential to have a negotiating mandate with the council. the risk of the eu being absent from the negotiating table in 2014 has been avoided... but the price has been paid! we have lost out on key proposals, including the idea of the european fund for so-called 'historic' resources and the inclusion of the application to any new use of genetic resources, which is essential to make the application of the protocol effective. the future european regulation is reduced to a matter of "pain skin" since the resources already in circulation will not be affected...
in writing. i voted against the report because legal certainty is not ensured throughout the chain of use of genetic resources for users. i regret the mandate given to the rapporteur to conclude an agreement at first reading. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the question of access to genetic resources is extremely important for the future of research and innovation in the agricultural or pharmaceutical sectors. the european union is the largest market for plant seed. it is also estimated that 26% of all new medicines approved in the last 30 years are natural products or derived from natural products. the report is a poor basis for negotiation and does not offer any new prospects for nature-based research. the concept of good conduct, which was crucial to facilitate compliance by european smes with the nagoya rules, has unfortunately been removed. finally, there is no recognition of the special nature of genetic resources when they are used for agriculture and food.
in writing. the european parliament, led by the coalition of the socialist, liberal and green groups, has chosen to give a negotiating mandate to ms sandrine bélier for the trilogue with the european commission and the council of the eu which will lead to the ratification of the nagoya protocol. i personally regret that the basis of the negotiating mandate which has just been approved is unrealistic and even dangerous for our industries and businesses. i am thinking in particular of the principle of reciprocity. that's why i've chosen to reject this warrant. however, i remain confident that the european commission and the council of the eu will take a more measured approach and will be able to reach a solution that is more reasonable and more in line with our interests. it is essential that the european union ratifies the nagoya protocol. the eu must not only be a spectator in future international negotiations, but must be able to influence and even bend the sometimes too radical positions of its international partners at the conference of the parties to the united nations convention on biological diversity (cop12) to be held in october 2014 in south korea.
in writing. - the loss of biodiversity, as far as the statistics we have are concerned, is an important issue for our attention and for our parliamentary political activity. the economic and social impact of biodiversity loss tells us significant numbers, such as losses of 7% of global gdp by 2050. therefore, preserving and allowing access to genetic resources, and access to them that is as fair as possible and equally guaranteed to the member states, is of paramount importance and is the aim of this report. investing in knowledge sharing, through the strengthening of infrastructure for the transmission of knowledge and the training of staff, is undoubtedly a good way to reverse the trend that is leading us to the loss of biodiversity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amended resolution on the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge which aims to combat illegal access by ensuring that only legally acquired genetic resources are used by researchers and businesses.
in writing. the eu's ratification of the nagoya protocol on biodiversity is good news in the fight against bio-piracy. the plundering of the genetic resources of the countries of the south by multinational corporations must stop. the commission's text was very inadequate. it essentially required declarations and moral obligations on the part of multinational companies to exercise 'due diligence'. the parliament's report goes much further. it prohibits the use of illegally acquired genetic resources. it requires prior consent from the suppliers before any use. it requires users of genetic resources to provide evidence of their compliance with the legislation at different stages of the manufacture of a product. it provides for the obligation to involve the indigenous and local communities of the supplier countries. it allows these suppliers the possibility of challenging the use of genetic resources in court. in order to make these advances possible, i am voting for this report.
in writing. micro generation can be defined as 1) the small-scale production by individuals and smes of energy to produce heat/cold and electricity to meet their own needs, and 2) the various forms of small-scale production, in a group or cooperative way at the community level, to meet local needs; other as this micro-generation is useful for the sustainable supply of energy in the union, i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the means of developing it.
in writing. micro generation is the small-scale production of energy by individuals or smes to produce heat and electricity to meet their own needs. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to encourage such practices and to achieve the eu's long-term renewable energy objectives. these objectives can be achieved by investing in research and new technologies.
in writing. microgeneration is an interesting tool to enable energy consumers to become real players in the energy market. that is why i support this resolution which encourages reflection on the future of this tool. by calling for the removal of a number of obstacles, it calls for the completion of the european energy market. we must, however, remain vigilant so that the attraction of new technologies does not have an undue impact on the energy bills of europeans, and i welcome the emphasis on this in this text.
in writing. the resolution has the laudable intention of encouraging the development of microgeneration, i.e. small-scale energy production for local use. this would not only promote short circuits but also renewable energies, thanks to the technologies used. however, these gains will remain wishful thinking if the eu continues its wild liberalisation of its electricity market. unfortunately, this is what this perfectly hypocritical text is advocating by calling for the acceleration of the implementation of the third package of energy liberalisation directives. the report thus ignores the ecological and social impasses into which this liberalization is plunging the european union. i vote against, so as not to endorse this hypocrisy. and i affirm my support for the development of microgeneration, which will only be effective with ecological planning that will take energy out of the current wild competition.
in writing. it is totally unacceptable that in equal work there are still significant differences in pay between male and female workers. it is therefore with great conviction that i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission and the member states to strengthen the current measures in order to close the gap between the talk and the deeds and finally ensure real equality.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution which aims to establish equal pay for men and women workers. i also voted for binding measures on this matter, by imposing a reduction of 5% per year in the pay gap between men and women until 2020. in 2012, the average hourly earnings gap between men and women in the eu reached 16.2%. this means that women would have to work 59 days more than men to earn the same wage as men. the european union, the symbol of democracy and equality, cannot allow such differences to persist.
in writing. equal pay for men and women is still not a reality in the europe of 2013. the flexible incentives have not worked and it is high time to move up a gear. i support ambitious and binding targets in this area and i welcome the vote of the european parliament today: it is the mark of our ambition, and i support setting clear and strong targets to end discrimination.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women workers for equal work or work of equal value, because despite 40 years of efforts, actions and resources, it is clear that the pay gap between men and women in the european union is still significant. with this resolution, the european parliament hopes that these disparities will no longer exist by 2020. to achieve this, the european parliament proposes a multi-level approach such as the promotion of good practice between member states and the implementation of policies to reduce the gender pay gap.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which was adopted by a very large majority. this is a fight we have been waging in the femm committee since the beginning of the legislature and yet this year again, in europe, women would have had to work until 27 february 2013 to reach the salary men earn on 31 december 2012. the slow progress towards closing this pay gap reveals the ineffectiveness and inadequacy of the provisions of directive 2006/54/ec. we therefore call on the commission once again to revise it. reducing the gender pay gap is both a tool to address the demographic crisis, to increase employment opportunities for women, and to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty, as women are unfortunately the first victims of the current economic crisis. i regret, however, that my epp colleagues have called for a split vote on the target of reducing the gender pay gap by 5% per year, when we know that reducing the gender pay gap by one percentage point will increase economic growth by 0.1%.
in writing. this resolution reminds the commission of its duty by asking it to review directive 2006/54/ec on the pay gap between men and women. the text even sets ambitious targets to reduce this gap and achieve equal pay by 2020. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls on the commission to develop a clear roadmap setting out the timetable for the objectives to be achieved at union level under the cybersecurity strategy and its evaluations. it is important that the european union can protect itself in the light of the latest espionage and privacy scandals.
in writing. i voted in favour of a new strategy on cybersecurity, which represents a growing challenge to national security and the economic stability of the internal market. the protection and preservation of fundamental freedoms and rights online must be ensured by the implementation of training, education and awareness-raising programmes for citizens on the protection of personal data.
in writing. at a time when the european union is asking for explanations about us cyber espionage in europe, i strongly support the schwab and harbour resolution, which stresses the need for a european cyber security strategy. the rapporteurs, while recalling the fundamental right to data protection, highlighted the key role of europol and the importance of developing cyber resilience (protection) for critical infrastructures.
in writing. cybersecurity poses important challenges, which we must learn to address quickly. it is not only our security that is at stake, but also the proper functioning of the internal market and our economies. i support the position taken in this report, which emphasises the need to train every citizen in cybersecurity issues, to teach them basic behaviours to enable them to control their personal data and to know the risks associated with their online behaviour. i also believe that the union must quickly train more engineers, especially women, because these professions are the future and europe must strengthen its influence and its technical leadership at the global level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution which stresses in particular the importance of developing cyber resilience, i.e. the protection of critical infrastructures. member states and the european institutions should also invest together to create a 'single market for cybersecurity'.
in writing. this resolution on eu cybersecurity does not say a word to denounce us cyber surveillance of the union and its member states. on the contrary, we are being asked to strengthen cooperation with nato and to include a cybersecurity component in the agreements on the transatlantic single market. this resolution is a bad joke that fails to take the issue seriously. i vote against it.
in writing. cybersecurity is a major issue of our time. we must ensure that the data that our citizens exchange on the internet is not misused, used without their knowledge, that they are not spied on. it is essential not only for the proper functioning of society and the economy but also for ensuring the physical integrity of citizens. it is important to ask each member state to put in place a real cybersecurity strategy, as it is our duty to ensure the protection and preservation of fundamental freedoms and rights online (in particular privacy and data protection). i am glad that i voted in favour of this resolution, which seems to me to be a first step in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution in a context where cybersecurity has become a crucial issue for defence (internet as a support for terrorism, data protection in sensitive institutions) and more generally for citizens (protection of personal data and online transactions). europe must encourage the creation of cybersecurity strategies at member state level, which would include the participation of the private sector, and which would result in information sharing among all relevant actors. we also need to raise awareness among european citizens and businesses about online data protection and plan to train more engineers in cybersecurity. finally, let us highlight an innovative and practical proposal in this field: the creation of certs - computer emergency and response teams, whose objective would be to create synergies in this field, and which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for realising the potential of the digital economy in the european union. this would have a powerful multiplier effect on the economy by stimulating growth and employment. i believe that this must therefore be a priority among the reforms undertaken with a view to competitiveness and growth in order to help the union emerge from the current crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the digital strategy for europe to make digital a driver of european growth. i have, however, expressed my concern about the opening of a second digital dividend, as i believe it is important to analyse the current situation carefully before considering any new opening.
in writing. the digital economy is a sector with a promising future, with strong potential for growth and jobs, especially for young people. to seize this opportunity, europe must rapidly adapt its economy to match its capabilities to its ambitions, and to be at the forefront of technology and innovation against its competitors. europe has important assets which it must exploit if it is to maintain its lead. i support the proposal in this report for a europe without roaming by 2015: it is unacceptable that such barriers still exist between europeans.
in writing. this resolution proposes to develop digital and more particularly information and communication technologies, arguing that this will be a great driver for jobs and growth. while it is necessary to develop digital technology, particularly to enable wider access, this cannot be enough to counter the austerity policies that are the root cause of the lack of growth and employment in the eu. this resolution is insignificant. i vote against this mockery of the world.
in writing. in the face of the terrible conflict in syria, the european parliament, through this resolution, condemns in the strongest possible terms the chemical weapons massacre of civilians on 21 august 2013, which according to western intelligence services killed at least 1 400 people, including 400 children, and notes that various sources seem to indicate that the syrian regime is responsible for this attack. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of enhanced cooperation on security issues, in order to find a solution to the syrian conflict as soon as possible, especially since the proven use of chemical weapons against the syrian population. the use of chemical weapons in syria is a war crime and a crime against humanity which calls for a strong, clear and common response. we strongly condemned the attack on 21 august and called on the united nations to take action to help the syrian people and refugees.
in writing. only a binding resolution of the un security council will bring an end to the use of chemical weapons in syria. that is the whole point of the resolution we have just adopted. i welcome the efforts of washington and moscow in negotiating such a resolution, but i regret that the european union is not also at the table in geneva. in syria, there is no military solution possible. the only solution is political, because it is a civil war that is now bloodying syria. it is therefore our responsibility to do everything we can to achieve a negotiated transitional solution so that in the end the syrians can have the regime of their choice. it is imperative that the opposition work to bring together all the moderates who want regime change by preventing the fundamentalist elements of the rebellion from gaining ground and that it appears to the communities and minorities as a guarantor of their security. on the humanitarian front, the eu must continue to take its share of responsibility and continue to help the countries in the region where the number of refugees is increasing. i am thinking in particular of lebanon.
in writing. the syrian conflict has brought its share of horror and terror. but last august, with the deadly chemical attack, we took another step into the unknowable. such a serious violation of human life cannot go unpunished. but in syria more than anywhere else, a response by force could have consequences of unimaginable scope. if firmness is required, so is caution. military intervention is a risky way of setting fire to a region that is only going to burn. if russia's proposal to put syria's chemical arsenal under international control is to be believed, it must not be seen as another diplomatic ploy to keep bashar al-assad in power. while the leaders are negotiating, the number of dead, but also and especially of refugees, keeps on increasing. we are now on the eve of winter and the eu, which is already doing a lot for refugees, still has to continue its solidarity effort.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on the situation in syria because the deadlock in which the country finds itself can only be overcome by a concerted political solution. we strongly condemn the use of violence by the syrian government and its use of chemical weapons; we consider that the acts committed by the regime of bashar al-assad are nothing less than crimes against humanity. it is important that europe gives a coordinated and integrated response to the syrian crisis, which is why this resolution has received the approval of the majority of the political groups in the european parliament.
in writing. the european union claims in this resolution to be relying on legitimate international institutions, since it states that chemical weapons have indeed been used against civilians and that they have been used by the government in power. an investigation by the un is still ongoing. i cannot support a text which claims not to await the un conclusions and thereby to deny international law. i vote against it.
in writing. the arab spring began in march 2011 and has resulted in 100,000 deaths, mostly civilians, 4.25 million displaced persons and 2 million refugees. but the horror of the chemical attack on august 21, 2013, which killed hundreds of people, was even more overwhelming. for two years now we have been faced with a paralysis of the international community which has not found a political solution, particularly because of the numerous chinese and russian vetoes. however, the syrian regime recently agreed to put its chemical arsenal under international surveillance. i hope that this first demonstration of goodwill by the syrian regime will be followed by real action that will allow the country to emerge from this deadly crisis. i support this resolution because the european union is working towards a diplomatic solution that will restore peace. i also welcome the union's daily efforts to provide much-needed humanitarian aid to refugees and displaced persons.
in writing. like the vast majority of my colleagues, i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament 'expresses its deep solidarity with the egyptian people and expresses its sincere condolences to the families of the victims of the recent clashes and violence'. the text deplores the use of force and calls for an immediate transition to a peaceful democratic regime. unfortunately, the situation on the ground remains extremely tense.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on egypt to call on the interim authorities to end the state of emergency and release political prisoners in order to relaunch an inclusive and democratic political process. we must put an end to acts of violence and terrorism, incitement to violence and hatred, to ensure the security of all citizens of the country, regardless of their political orientation or affiliation. a new egypt has yet to be built, on the basis of democracy and the guarantee of fundamental rights.
in writing. i support the european parliament's position that violence should give way to political transition, which is why i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation in egypt. parliament expressed its support for the process of reforming the constitution and stressed that it was a matter of laying the foundations for a new egypt, a genuinely democratic egypt which guaranteed all egyptian citizens respect for fundamental freedoms and rights. the european union, through its high representative for foreign affairs, must be committed to the peace process in egypt and beyond in this region of the world.
in writing. egypt is going through a very serious crisis that is undermining the democratic transition that began after the fall of the mubarak regime. first of all, the violence that has shaken the country in recent months must end as soon as possible. the government and the opposition forces must take responsibility and stop inciting hatred and fomenting aggression. secondly, the revival of the democratic process must include all the components of the egyptian political world and fully involve women and representatives of minorities. this is the prerequisite for egypt to move towards a genuine democracy, the only way out of the social and economic difficulties that are so hard hitting the country and its people. this progress in the political field must be accompanied by a stable economic situation. in this context, the continuation of assistance programmes to civil society and the most vulnerable is absolutely vital.
in writing. beyond the declarations of solidarity with the egyptian people and condemnation of the violence of the repression against the demonstrators mentioned in this resolution, it is recalled that the financial assistance to which egypt is entitled from the european union is conditional on compliance with the rules laid down by the imf. on the contrary, i think that the democratic transition is difficult to achieve under the yoke of financial institutions which impose austerity in an authoritarian manner wherever they operate. i'm not going to.
in writing. last july, the egyptian people decided to demonstrate against the ruling muslim brotherhood, highlighting president morsi's triple failure - political, economic and social. a president and an interim government were established with a roadmap to ensure a democratic transition. two months later, it is clear that the situation in egypt is very worrying. the polarization of society between pro-muslim brotherhood and pro-army groups has resulted in deadly clashes, terrorist attacks, violence against copts, harassment of human rights defenders and restrictions on press freedom. the european union supports egypt in its efforts to bring about a democratic transition and economic recovery, while condemning the violence and human rights violations committed by the army and the muslim brotherhood. i voted in favour of this resolution. two years after the arab spring, i still support the egyptian youth to make their aspirations for peace, democracy and freedom a reality.
in writing. i supported this resolution because it takes a full account of the events of the summer to better assess the consequences. at this stage of the country's democratic transition, we still lack the background to judge whether these events constitute a step forward or a step back. in our text we have taken the view that the analysis and the call for the egyptian people to rally behind the democratic values to which they are attached, as well as the respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including that of worship, are necessary.
in writing. maritime space is the subject of increasingly intense geostrategic competition. i voted in favour of this text, which recalls that the european union has a strong interest in maintaining a safe, open and clean maritime environment, guaranteeing the free movement and safety of goods and people within maritime areas.
in writing. with a genuine maritime policy integrated into the common security and defence policy, the eu could create a safe, open and clean maritime environment to allow for free trade in the context of a peaceful, fair and sustainable use of our oceans. i therefore voted in favour of this report which calls on the high representative, the commission and the council to draw up this integrated maritime policy based on the coordination of european actors and member states concerned with maritime safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of the gomes report which, within the framework of the common security and defence policy (csdp), allows for the establishment of a secure maritime framework. the gomez report stresses the urgent need for cooperation between the eu member states by calling for control of european maritime flows, the identification of maritime security threats and the development of specific action capacities to deal with european issues. i therefore welcome the parliament's motion for a resolution which, in view of the european council in december 2013, makes it possible to express the views of the european parliamentarians.
in writing. the european maritime frontier has a strategic and economic importance that should not be overlooked, and yet current defence tools do not always take this into account sufficiently. our maritime borders must be protected in the same way as our physical borders: as we have seen, it is often by sea that certain threats come to us that we find difficult to control, such as piracy or illegal exploitation of resources. i welcome the call in this report for greater consideration of the maritime dimension in our security policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because a comprehensive approach combining political, diplomatic, economic and social tools seems to be the most appropriate way of addressing the challenges of the european maritime area, while ensuring the maintenance of a safe, open and clean area guaranteeing the free movement of goods and people within it.
in writing. this report is part of the smart defense project concocted by nato, taking for granted that the eu and nato would have the same interests. we demand a strict separation between the eu and nato. it is essential to make a clear and sharp distinction between civilian and military capabilities, contrary to what is advocated in this report. the report welcomes the success of the atalanta mission, which represents a denial of sovereignty, and proposes its model for the development of the csdp. military action must be conducted within the strict framework of the un charter and international law. france cannot go to war automatically without a vote by the national representation, as the report proposes in accordance with the eu treaty. this report does not propose anything against one of the real threats to the eu, namely us espionage, but on the contrary it proposes even greater cooperation with nato in terms of intelligence. piracy and migration are perceived as major risks for the eu without ever being addressed. the possibility of a non-military solution to these problems is not mentioned. i vote against it.
in writing. globalisation, international trade and new threats such as organised crime and piracy require the eu to put in place a maritime security policy to make our waters open but also safe. the union can be proud of its achievements in maritime security, as demonstrated by the strategy implemented in the horn of africa. we must continue our efforts and coordinate our common defence policy. i support this report because it highlights sensitive maritime areas and calls for our actions and initiatives to be pooled in order to provide an effective and lasting response to maritime instability and insecurity.
in writing. the european union is the world's leading maritime area, thanks in particular to its outermost regions, which allow it to assert its direct presence on the major international sea routes of major strategic importance. however, it is faced, on the one hand, with the arrival of new actors that upset the geostrategic maritime balance; on the other hand, with the emergence of new threats and the intensification of certain risks in the various areas where it is present. the european union must respond strongly to these new challenges, and this is what my colleague ana gomes' report highlights. its proposal to map the infrastructures of the eu member states and acp partners in strategic locations in order to organise specific operations makes it possible, in a crisis context, to make effective use of the tools already at the eu's disposal. i only regret that the outermost regions, because of their geostrategic location, are a major asset for the union and the future european policy on maritime security. however, their potential has not been sufficiently emphasised in this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which presents a detailed assessment of the military capabilities which have been developed to date at european level. it also makes proposals on how to update the institutional framework of military structures, address major capacity gaps and enhance the operational effectiveness of eu military operations.
in writing. the member states have responded individually to the syrian crisis. it is important, in order to be credible and respected on the international scene, to react collectively and to work together in developing a genuine european security and defence policy. working together is our greatest strength in responding to the international crises that are exploding around the world. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which seeks to review the eu's military structures in the perspective of a genuine common security and defence policy.
in writing. i voted for the giannakou report on responding effectively and swiftly to international crises. the report calls on the member states to take the necessary measures to strengthen the eu's military structures and capabilities, if necessary in the framework of permanent structured cooperation. the reduction in military budgets, which is particularly denounced in this report, is ultimately extremely detrimental to the planning and conduct of military operations at european level. i support the establishment of a genuine common european security and defence policy through increased cooperation between member states.
in writing. the european union has shown its weakness twice in recent months: in mali and then in syria. this inability to act, to take strong decisions quickly, contributes to the image of a weak or non-existent europe on the international scene. what we are saying by voting for this report is that we must put an end to this weakness. it is time for europe to have rapid reaction capabilities, coordinated between the member states and able to act quickly where they are needed. we need more political will to do that. i hope that the next commission will be able to live up to this ambition.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to respond to the eu's military ambitions, which seeks to maintain and strengthen its indispensable role in international security and defence matters. i am particularly in favour of a comprehensive approach to crisis management that integrates diplomatic, economic, development and, as a last resort, military means.
in writing. the europe of defence has an appearance, the csdp, and a reality, nato. nato is destroying any possibility of european defence based on independence and collective security. it is plunging all european defence budgets into the hands of the us military-industrial complex. the defence budgets of the member states would be sufficient to ensure the security of each country if they were not used for nato missions and the oversized weapons programmes imposed by the united states. member states should replace galileo with gps. they must also invest in a european-only industry for military and civilian drones. the union must protect its communications and the communications of its citizens against the nsa's means of spying. nato's propensity for preventive warfare, for the use of tactical nuclear weapons and for the deployment of anti-missile systems in europe makes it a factor of insecurity and a danger to peace in the world. the union must withdraw from nato. such a political decision would produce a life-saving shock which would open the debate on the foundation of a european and mediterranean defence policy based on peace, collective security, cooperation and the independence of each people. that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which deplores the union's inadequate capacity to deal with international crises in a timely and effective manner. although the origins of the european union are rooted in the maintenance of peace, the protection of human rights and the prevention of conflict, the current situation is marked by the absence of a genuine common security and defence policy. the establishment of a functioning union staff within the european external action service (eeas) should be considered, as well as the pooling of costly equipment such as drones or special capabilities.
in writing. in summary, this report calls for support for the nato-concocted smart defense project, taking for granted that the eu and nato have the same interests. we demand a strict separation between the eu and nato. it is also essential to make a clear and sharp distinction between civilian and military capabilities, contrary to the current trend clearly advanced in this report of dangerously combining security and defence. military action must be conducted within the strict framework of the un charter and international law. france cannot go to war automatically without a vote by the national representation, as the report proposes in accordance with the eu treaty. this report does not propose anything against one of the real threats to the eu, namely us espionage, but on the contrary it proposes even greater cooperation with nato in terms of intelligence.
in writing. as belarus is the last dictatorship in europe, we have called in this resolution for the regime to release political prisoners and gradually turn towards democracy and the european union. i voted for this resolution which is firm on european values while reaching out to the belarusians.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendations on future eu-belarus relations on fundamental rights and democratic reforms, in view of the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november. the eu has been trying to establish relations with belarus since 1995, but these were frozen in 1997 due to the political situation in the country, in particular the violations of electoral standards in the 2010 presidential elections and the repression of independent media. the eastern partnership will open a multilateral technical dialogue to consider the development of relations with the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i support, in particular, the prospect of the resumption of political dialogue, as soon as the political prisoners have been released, which will promote democratic reforms such as free and fair elections with respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report of recommendation to the council, the commission and the eeas on the union's policy towards belarus. the report calls on the belarusian authorities to guarantee respect for fundamental rights and to undertake democratic reforms.
in writing. the report aims at improving bilateral relations between the union and belarus through the gradual lifting of the restrictive measures imposed by the european union. the eu is also calling for the release of all political prisoners and the restoration of all their civil and political rights. i note that some of the points in this report go far beyond the human rights framework, such as the requirement to allow organisations to deposit their funds in offshore accounts, which is a strange request. this is all a farce. the belarusian regime is unbearable. the eu's imperialist and follow-on attitude. i'm not involved in the plague-cholera relationship. i'm not going to.
in writing. while the sovereignty of each country must be strictly respected on the international stage, russia seems to be putting pressure on its neighbours to abandon their friendly relationship with the european union. in view of this, i voted in favour of this resolution, which reaffirms the essential principles of international law.
in writing. in this resolution we called on russia to respect the right of the eu's eastern neighbours to negotiate association agreements with the union. recently, russia has been pressuring ukraine and moldova and threatening armenia to dissuade them from signing agreements with the eu. as part of its neighbourhood policy, the eu must assume its responsibility for defending the eastern partnership countries. the commission and the council will have to present concrete and effective measures to support these countries in their european aspirations and choices.
in writing. the joint resolution of the right, the greens and the social liberals is extremely aggressive against russia. it called on the eastern partnership countries (ukraine, armenia, georgia, moldova) to pursue political and economic reforms in line with european standards. in other words, free competition, the search for 'competitiveness'. she's also a hypocrite. these parties call for respect for the national sovereignty of the eastern partnership countries in protest against russian influence. but they call on the eu to step up its action in these countries to "promote the visibility of the eastern partnership and its benefits among the public opinion of the partner countries". and within the eu this sovereignty is systematically flouted by these same parties. it's an arrogant text with a neo-colonial touch. i vote against it. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it called on the eu and russia to overcome their differences. it criticised the eu's choice to exclude russia from its eastern neighbourhood policy. and it called for referendums in the eastern countries so that the people could decide sovereignly on a possible alliance with the eu.
in writing. the eastern partnership summit will be held in vilnius at the end of november. this will be a unique opportunity to 'set things straight' with our eastern european neighbours, especially in trade. many of them are currently under intense pressure from russia to withdraw from the free trade area prepared by the union and its eastern neighbours. this resolution, which i supported in my vote in plenary, goes beyond mere trade disputes over the customs union, by highlighting the political and economic pressures facing our partners. it is the clear message of the european parliament ahead of the november summit.
in writing. i voted in favour of a new internal security strategy, implemented in accordance with the principles of the treaties such as freedom, security and justice within the european territory. eu action should focus on activities that are proven to reduce crime rates and prevent terrorist attacks.
in writing. this resolution on the internal security of eu citizens is surprisingly silent on the repeated violations of the fundamental rights of europeans by the united states of america and its espionage system. the big phrases about respect for fundamental rights and 'freedom' are completely hypocritical. this resolution also makes an unacceptable amalgamation between internal security and immigration by repeatedly and heavily emphasising the issue of border controls for migrants. we would have liked to have seen the same zeal in demanding controls on capital flows at the borders to combat organised crime and money laundering. but on this point, the resolution only 'regrets' that 'the fight against money laundering has not been included as a separate eu priority in the fight against organised crime' and merely 'invites' the commission to reconsider this decision. a damaging shyness where i feel the lobby's paw. i vote against it.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy aims to achieve a 75% employment rate for the population aged 20-64 by 2020. i voted in favour of this text, which considers that the economic crisis should not be used as a pretext to undermine policies to prevent occupational risks. we again call on the commission to present its new european strategy for health and safety at work by 2020 and by the end of 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which is intended to denounce the commission's failure to present its new european strategy for health and safety at work at the present time. it is nevertheless worrying that, while employment is a priority, the commission has still not presented its new action plan to ensure good health and safety at work.
in writing. we need to give europeans the assurance that their work will not endanger their health or safety and that, should this happen, they will be adequately protected. however, europe has not yet defined its ambitions for the coming years in this area, which is a cause for concern.
in writing. this resolution calls on the commission to take further initiatives in the field of occupational safety and health, which is a step in the right direction. nevertheless, it is surprising that a text promoting health at work should set the objective of keeping people at work until the age of 64, especially since the retirement age is fixed at 67 in many countries which have accepted the commission's current standards on this matter. it goes without saying that health at work also involves stopping work at a certain age. this is shown by the correlation between the decline in healthy life expectancy and the increase in the retirement age. i am voting against this text.
in writing. transnational enterprise agreements are new forms of social dialogue with multinational enterprises. they provide companies across europe with voluntary, innovative and socially acceptable solutions to tackle the problems of anticipation of change, restructuring, training, mobility, health and safety at work and equality. 224 transnational business agreements of this type have become increasingly important over the last ten years, since the first initiatives were undertaken in 2000. i voted in favour of this text which calls for greater transparency for these agreements and for greater legal certainty as to the effects of transnational business agreements.
in writing. while companies are increasingly operating on a global level, workers are more often organised at national level because the rules governing them differ from country to country. 'this asymmetry has a negative impact on the representation of workers' interests': this sentence was rejected in today's vote on the handel report. however, it does summarise the difficulties faced by workers in a globalised environment. the strengthening of international social dialogue must go hand in hand with the development of multinational enterprises. the aim of international agreements between companies - over 200 texts today - is to remedy the existing asymmetry. as these agreements evolve outside a legal framework, it seems appropriate to ask the commission to verify, with a view to legal certainty and transparency, whether an optional legal framework is useful. the need for the most favourable clause and the non-regression clause is recalled in the text which also stresses the autonomy of the social partners and the parties to a collective agreement.
in writing. europe is free movement, including free movement of workers. the consequence of this is the development of transnational agreements on industrial relations. to respond to this and to ensure the protection of workers, it is necessary to develop certain basic rules to govern such agreements. this is the aim of this text: efficient european enterprises, whose action is based on a high-quality social dialogue. i welcome the emphasis in this text on the need to strengthen women's participation in social dialogue and collective bargaining structures, and the encouragement to take into account the gender equality dimension.
in writing. i voted against this text because i am against the establishment of a european labour court and an optional european legal framework for transnational business agreements which might appear too restrictive for our companies.
in writing. the current framework for social dialogue is the national level, but companies are increasingly operating at european level, this asymmetry has a negative impact on the representation of workers' interests and puts workers at risk of being pitted against each other and being forced to accept lower wages, less favourable working conditions or other downward adjustments. the purpose of this report is to provide a framework for crossborder collective bargaining which adopts the principle of the most favourable clause and the non-regression clause. this is to prevent transnational company agreements at european level from undermining or damaging national collective agreements or national company agreements. this report is in favour of greater protection for workers, and i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which contains strategic guidelines and general recommendations to improve the situation and living conditions of unaccompanied minors in the european union. it aims to cover the main aspects of the living conditions of these minors as soon as they arrive on the territory of the union and to find sustainable solutions for their reception on that territory or for their return to their country of origin.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to improve the situation of unaccompanied minors in the eu. the action plan put in place by the commission since 2010 is not satisfactory as it fails to overcome certain difficulties (such as the lack of statistics, the issue of return, etc.). we have a duty to protect unaccompanied young people at european level by setting minimum standards for fundamental rights and by establishing genuine coordination between european actors.
in writing. the arrival of unaccompanied minors on the territory of the union must receive an adequate response, which takes into account their specific needs and guarantees respect for the best interests of the child. i welcome the fact that this report recommends concrete adaptation of asylum procedures, for example by recommending that their cases be dealt with as a matter of priority or that national asylum systems be adapted to children.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is important to ensure that the interests of unaccompanied minors are protected as much as possible throughout the entire reception procedure. in particular, it is essential to combat the multiple violations of the fundamental rights of unaccompanied minors in certain member states. i would argue that there is a need for increased protection for children who are already disoriented by their isolation.
in writing. migration flows give rise to sometimes worrying phenomena such as cross-border criminal networks but also, in another context, to the increase in unaccompanied minors whose situation is perceived in different ways in different member states. the report by mrs griesbeck stresses that the best interests of the child must take precedence over all other considerations. of course, we cannot ignore the fact that a child is a vulnerable creature who cannot be treated in the same way as an adult and who deserves special attention. i therefore agree with the general guidelines of this report. but we cannot afford to be naive either. kindness does not preclude vigilance. there are situations where minors commit crimes and delinquency that cannot go unpunished. in situations where this is justified, detention may be allowed. the special situation of unaccompanied minors deserves to be raised and their interests, rights and conditions must be better taken into account in certain member states, but we cannot ignore certain situations when they represent a threat to public order.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which contains general guidelines and recommendations to improve the situation and living conditions of unaccompanied minors in the eu. member states should pay particular attention to the respect of the fundamental rights of minors arriving in the territory of the union.
in writing. this report provides an update on the situation of unaccompanied minors in the eu, taking a strong stand for the protection of children and the defence of their best interests. the eu's policy towards them must be guided by these principles and not by migration policies. it also urged member states to strictly respect the fundamental obligation never to detain a minor. i am voting for this text.
in writing. this report builds on the commission's communication which sets out a strategy to unlock the potential of the cultural and creative sectors for economic growth and social cohesion. i voted in favour of this text, which calls for the creation of the conditions necessary for the development of the cultural and creative sectors, the establishment of reliable statistics, the creation of networks and clusters, and the establishment of a common culture for the cultural and creative sectors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr sanchez-schmid, on the cultural industry. the report defends intellectual and artistic production, a sector which has been able to withstand the crisis. each year, the cultural and creative sectors generate 4.5% of the eu's gdp and account for over 8 million jobs. it is therefore important to promote them and to continue to allocate funds to these sectors which are generators of jobs and growth.
in writing. this report adopts an ambitious vision: to go beyond the diversity of our cultural and creative systems to bring about a common identity through, for example, joint productions or common spaces for exchange and expression. it emphasises the importance of giving real recognition to professionals in the sector, as they are involved in an important economic activity that creates links. i welcome his realistic vision of enabling students to acquire a comprehensive training which takes account of the needs of the professional world through a closer relationship with the business world. it rightly recalls that these sectors are largely composed of smes, whose specificities must be taken into account, with a clear focus on their economic development and international influence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it seems essential that the visibility of the creative and cultural sectors, which make europe the cultural exception, be supported and recognised at eu level and in the member states. i particularly welcome the fact that the creative and cultural sectors contribute to the influence of culture and the territories and i encourage the member states and, through them, the local authorities to promote these sectors, which have a diverse and effective impact on all the territories, and to use them as engines of economic and social development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which responds to a communication from the european commission which sets out a strategy to unlock the potential of the cultural and creative sectors for economic growth and social cohesion. the report provides insights and improvements on several aspects of communication such as the prospects and challenges of digitalisation, globalisation and access to international markets.
in writing. this report deals with the cultural sector only from the economic point of view of market integration. so, despite some laudable intentions to help smes or to adapt social security systems to the reality of workers in the cultural and creative sectors, i cannot support this text. support for the creative sectors is envisaged only through loans. thus only for-profit enterprises will be able to access financing, while sectors that do not have a profit objective will be excluded, which is a testimony to the logic of the commodification of culture defended here. the cultural life that this mechanism prepares is indigence and stereotyping in the sauce of the majors. sanchez-schmid knows nothing about culture, so it's better to apply his recipes to the meat loaf. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which was supported by a large majority of our assembly. the eu has understood that it needs to promote the creative and cultural sectors (ccs), and i welcome this. firstly, because europe's cultural heritage must be preserved and enhanced. in this respect, i welcome the broad support for the idea of a common european identity, but also and above all the exclusion of cultural and audiovisual services from the negotiating mandate for the eu-us free trade agreement. parliament thus recalled that cultural and creative goods are not commodities like other commodities. i think it's obvious, but it seems that sometimes others doubt it. secondly, because these sectors, if effectively encouraged, create jobs and economic growth. i have supported in particular the support given to artists to encourage their mobility and to defend their profession, as well as measures to strengthen the intellectual property of authors.
in writing. i helped write this report which highlights the significant growth and job potential of the creative sectors. the challenge is to raise awareness of the potential for employment and growth in these sectors and their impact on the wider economy. the report also stresses the importance of artistic and cultural education from an early age. i tabled amendments to encourage the development of the arts and culture sectors. the role of the public authorities is also emphasised. it is indispensable in supporting associations and smes and in helping to organise the sectors and to promote and export works. public investment also plays a key role in the public artistic production that irrigates all these sectors. finally, i have been keen, together with my socialist and democratic colleagues, to include the social question in this report, in particular to ensure the sustainability of jobs, taking into account the specificities of these professions and their need to be fully covered by social protection.
author. - mr president, we are about to adopt the seventh resolution on the democratic republic of congo since the beginning of this parliament. in itself, it's an admission of helplessness. the situation in this country has been dramatic for a long time. according to caritas, conflicts in the congo have killed more than seven million people since 1998. the first victims are always the women, who are used as weapons of war, and the children, who are forcibly conscripted by all sides. kivu, rich in natural resources, including precious stones, is once again the scene of fire and blood, with civilians being the first victims. it is time for this to stop, so that the congolese people can finally benefit from the country's wealth. the european union has invested enormous sums in the democratic republic of congo. what are the outcomes for the civilian population? it's time to ask yourself the question. the international community must do all it can to ensure that the peace process finally produces results. the european union, given the history of some of its member states, must play a key role in this respect.
author. - mr president, there can be no peace without justice. this is a very important point for me as a member of the subcommittee on human rights. the right to truth and justice contributes to peace building. in africa, but also in latin america, in order to speed up peace negotiations, the worst abuses are ignored in the name of national reconciliation. yet thousands - and in the democratic republic of congo, millions - of victims, many of them women and children, are waiting for justice and reparation for the violence they have suffered. the choice to forget and to pardon crimes committed is to allow impunity to reign over and over again. it is to maintain a system which will retain the same defects and which is in danger of falling into chaos again at any moment. as mary robinson, the un special envoy for the great lakes region, said, we must not repeat the mistakes of the past. that is why i want to reiterate in this house that in the drc, as elsewhere, to choose the path of amnesty would be a grave mistake. to avoid this, it is essential that women participate in the negotiations and that the peace process involves civil society, not just the main political leaders in the region. i would like to add one essential point specific to this conflict: the issue of sexual violence, which must be included in the benchmarks for measuring progress in implementing the addis ababa peace agreement. the problem of sexual violence must be seen in its entirety: the efforts of the congolese authorities and the international community, which have so far focused on strengthening the courts and supporting the opening of investigations and prosecutions, must be emphasised. however, the emphasis must now also be placed on the execution of these judgments, which remain very incomplete, promoting a feeling of impunity.
author. - mr president, this is the second time this year that we have been considering a resolution on the central african republic. since our resolution of 11 january, general bozizé has been overthrown and michel djotodia, the leader of the seleka rebels, has declared himself head of state. today the king is naked and the seleka men are clearly out of his control, as the recent violence has shown. france and its chadian friends bear a heavy responsibility for the situation in that country. today, it refuses to intervene in the central african republic, but the risk remains. the european union has provided considerable aid to this country, which, despite its natural wealth, is one of the poorest in the world. the humanitarian situation is indeed catastrophic: nearly six million people need urgent aid and ngos have access to only 20% of the territory. helping them must indeed be the priority of the international forces in this country whose governance is no longer known.
author. - mr president, when we read the resolution before us, the least we can say is that it is at least moderate. yes, the human rights situation in bahrain remains a matter of concern. yes, the reforms announced are difficult to implement. that's the least we can do. since last august, the situation has worsened, the repression has continued and even worsened, and the reforms go against the promises made by the al-khalifa clan. in an attempt to prevent the protests in august, the bahraini authorities have tightened their repressive legislative arsenal but nothing has been done. again, thousands of bahrainis were on the streets, demanding democratic reforms. again, the repression was unleashed. to legitimize this repression, the ruling power is raising the iranian threat, but anyone who really knows the region knows that this is a regime construct that serves the interests of the ruling sunni clan, that serves to divide bahrainis, that ensures the support of the sunni neighboring countries, saudi arabia at the top and, in fact, the powerful us ally that hosts its fifth fleet there. there is no doubt that prime minister khalifa bin salman al-khalifa, in power for over forty years, a figure of the regime's hard-line wing, has taken over. all this hesitation is useless. let's stop hiding our faces! given the strategic challenges facing this region of the world, the international community has a heavy responsibility, and the european union in particular. bahrainis are showing extraordinary courage; they must not be the forgotten ones of the arab spring. the european union has not met the expectations of the peoples of the region. these people are asking for democracy and you are telling them "free trade agreements and geostrategic issues". you cannot let bahrainis continue to be massacred by refusing to listen to ngos, who are all unanimous about the regime's evolution. you can't keep quiet! we shall not vote for this resolution, it does not meet the challenges and the stakes. we will abstain and not vote against, in solidarity with the bahraini people, because of the final few paragraphs that mention the... (the speaker cuts off the speaker's microphone)
mr president, the issues of greenhouse gas emissions and the energy transition are crucial for the future of our species. although this is a crucial issue, the union, true to its ultra-liberal dogma, continues to believe that only the market will solve the problem. the market guarantees speculation, the right of the richest to pollute and the relocation of industries to countries with little or no environmental legislation. the real solution is not through the market, competition, the pursuit of profit at any cost, but through public services and cooperation. this implies the construction of integrated public enterprises for energy, waste and rail freight production and service, enterprises to which specific objectives will be set. yes, we must act to protect the environment, but we cannot be the only ones who want to save the planet, and this means an environmental taxation at the union's borders, imports of manufactured products to finance investment and research and development by these public enterprises and european industry.
mr president, today we produce and fish less than 40% of the seafood we consume. we can be satisfied with real progress in these 40% of european products. even if not everything is resolved, our fisheries management and control efforts have resulted in, for example, 61% of stocks in the north-east atlantic reaching the mdg in 2012. but how can we spread this model of virtuous management so that our efforts are not drowned in the ocean? fisheries agreements, such as those with mauritania, are part of the response by providing a means of disseminating the european union's policies. a good fisheries agreement between the union and a third country must meet four conditions. firstly, the fishing rights granted to vessels must be limited to the renewal of the resource. secondly, third countries must agree to apply sustainability models. thirdly, the rights granted to union vessels must not be in competition with the coastal populations of the third country. fourthly, the counterparties must enable the economic and social development of the coastal states concerned. in a world context where some states are engaged in a veritable race for blue gold, where flags of convenience are displayed alongside other vessels dressed in the colours of the coastal states in the same logic of overexploitation of people and fisheries resources, depriving the poorest states of their food wealth, the european fisheries agreements can, more than ever, be a reference point but also require us to be vigilant in their application.
mr president, ryanair has just been ordered to pay millions of euros in damages for concealed work in france. the company had simply placed 127 of its french employees under irish contracts in order to reduce their pay as much as possible and, above all, not to pay its contribution to the operation of the french company. ryanair wants to take the case to the european court of justice to have the judgment annulled on the basis of the services directive, the infamous 'bolkestein directive'. this slave directive encourages social dumping and the over-exploitation of employees by allowing the relocation of the status of employees when it is not possible to relocate activities. if the commission, the council and the political majority in this parliament do not put the repeal of this directive on the agenda, they will be responsible for being the gravediggers of social europe and, probably, of europe as a whole. but to have that political courage, we would need a commission, a council and a political majority in parliament that are independent of the business community, which uses the bolkestein directive to line its pockets on the backs of european employees.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs papadopoulou for her initiative. equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, and this in all sectors of society. we must defend this principle in europe and far beyond our borders, through all development policies and the defence of fundamental rights. in this report, the very existence of women is at issue with the concept of genicide. we are talking here of the simple right to be born in a number of countries where the customs consider the birth of a girl a burden, customs which can lead to unthinkable extremes, forced abortions and even infanticide. we have the tools and means to encourage the implementation of incentives, prevention, information and support programmes for women. but we also have a duty to influence the states concerned to introduce binding legislation with criminal sanctions to put an end to these practices and to give women the social consideration to which they are entitled as much as men.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the effect of budgetary constraints on the use of european funds is not neutral. since 2007, europe has invested €350 billion in regional growth. the principle of these funds is leverage. when europe finances two euros, the national and regional authorities have to finance an additional euro. with the crisis and the necessary restrictions that accompany it, some local authorities are struggling to provide this extra euro at the expense of investment and employment. it is not austerity that is at the root of the difficulties of the states but the accumulation of deficits. better spending will be one of the main priorities of the next programming period, both for the european union and for the states. yes, flexibility is needed, but the states and local authorities must be rigorous, must fulfil the commitments to which their membership of the european union obliges them and must respect the stability pact as well as the search for efficiency of the european funds. only then can growth be restored on a sound and sustainable basis.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, do you know how many lives will be saved each year thanks to the directive proposed by the commission, thanks to the report by linda mcavan? you talk about hypocrisy, but do you know that number? what's the matter?
madam president, i can see that the debate is heated, but i think that the vote we are having today is a really politically important and highly symbolic vote. it shows european citizens that the role of the european union is to protect the health of consumers. smoking is a serious health problem, which kills 700 000 people a year in europe. in france, this number is 60,000 a year, or one airbus every day! it is our responsibility to do everything we can to discourage young people from starting. the greens/efa group therefore supports the proposals made by the european commission: to make packages less attractive; neutral packages; health messages; i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. menthol takes the bitterness out of tobacco. this will help to combat the demonization of tobacco by tobacco marketing and packaging. it is absolutely intolerable that marketing should be allowed to lure young consumers with deadly products. reducing addiction is a priority. that is why i call on the members of the european parliament to take responsibility, because this vote is decisive and will show the real influence of the lobbies in brussels. the image of the integrity of the european parliament is at stake. we cannot condone the loss of lives to save jobs and only jobs!
madam president, we must do everything we can to reduce the number of smokers, because the tobacco industry will stop at nothing to attract targeted audiences: attractive packaging, flavourings and fine cigarettes, which are very popular with young women. their lobbying has worked because today many of their proposals have been taken up in the strict sense by some of us, who have served as letter boxes to these tobacco lobbyists. it's a shame! the tobacco industry has been blocking the directive for three years. would she be a threat to jobs? let us be serious, thirty-four thousand jobs in the european union alone. the tobacco lobbyists, who are the real dealers in death, are trying to make it appear that tobacco is enriching europe, when in fact it is ruining it and the health of a whole generation of european citizens. to reduce the attractiveness of tobacco to young people and women in particular, there is a need for strong health warnings on the top of the pack, a ban on flavourings and fine cigarettes, as well as strict controls on the ingredients and additives in cigarettes. similarly, e-cigarettes are not, and especially are not, a medicine, but they must be strictly controlled. before giving up e-cigarettes, we should know their long-term effects. the trend towards electronic cigarettes should not be seen as a gateway to smoking. let us not sacrifice the best interests of health protection for this terrible cash machine of the tobacco giants and above all let us give a mandate to mrs mcavan.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs mcavan and the lithuanian presidency on standing firm in the face of an unprecedented onslaught by the tobacco lobby. it is not the only lobby that is here, and, as a colleague has pointed out, the pharmaceutical lobby is also very much present. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in france, 16 million smokers cost the country 47 billion euros, or 3% of gdp. today we must commit ourselves to a real fight against tobacco. that's 75 percent of health messages. this means fighting the marketing ploys of the producers. this means that e-cigarettes are a great hope for breaking the tobacco addiction. this must not be a great way for the cigarette manufacturers to further expand their business, especially towards young people. this is a matter of the credibility and honour of this parliament. it is well known that one sitting party has received money from the tobacco lobby. it's in the english press these days. yes, you are! we must therefore show that we represent the european citizens... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i have a point of order. five million euros have been spent in recent months by the cigarette industry. is it normal that since 8:30 we are being filmed by lobbyists who are in the stands? i ask you, mr president.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, andrea zanoni, for his work on this important project to make up for the shortcomings in the application of environmental assessments by our member states. facing climate change and the loss of biodiversity, which is accelerating and worsening, facing the artificialisation of natural environments, anticipating and assessing the impacts of our activities and projects before committing them, to make an informed decision whether to build a motorway, an airport or to exploit an oil well, avoiding, reducing or compensating for the harmful effects of projects and activities on the climate and nature: all these elements that should not and should not be an option but an obligation, because the impact study is one of the most effective instruments to protect our environment and our health. we support the strengthening of the independence of experts, public participation, the obligation to carry out impact assessments for all activities, including the exploration and exploitation of shale gas and oil. there is no reason why fracking should be excluded from the scope of the environmental impact study and, especially, from the short-term interest that benefits a few and that all will then have to pay in the long term. so i hope, and i call on all my colleagues, to show ambition and responsibility in voting this report without weakening it and to offer europeans a clear legislative framework which is essential for innovation and the competitiveness of the european union, while ensuring the protection of our environment and our living environment.
mr president, commissioner, prevention is always better than cure. this is the case in many areas, including the environment. environmental impact studies are a very good thing, because they allow us to predict the environmental consequences of an investment and, therefore, to both protect our environment and improve the use of funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. however, for us today, the challenge is also to put the cursor of the obligations in the right place. we must be fully aware that additional obligations can also impede investment, growth and employment. beware of legal instability for our companies! the epp group has rejected all unnecessary, ineffective or redundant measures so that this text remains an effective tool for improving projects with an environmental impact. the question of exploration and exploitation of shale gas remains. some would like to prevent their use by multiplying the conditions to be met in this text. it is clear to me that we must at the same time facilitate...
mr president, commissioner, this is a political directive, this is a directive to protect our health and our environment, finally! this is a directive which makes it possible to introduce factors to combat climate change more effectively, thus allowing better respect for biodiversity and to combat and prevent the risks of natural disasters. yes, we should be proud to vote for this directive which not only simplifies but also makes for greater transparency and greater control. earlier this morning, at 8.30 a.m., we had a debate on the fight against smoking. now, we are in a debate to fight against this climate change, to better prevent it, and to be in a policy of precaution with respect to shale gas. i support your policy, commissioner. these are the same people we heard about earlier, and they have nothing to do with the health of europeans. and, again, it is the same people who say that we should make sure that we can, not defend the health and the environment of europeans, by being in this adventure of fracking shale gas... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. i supported this agreement which associates ukraine with the european union and its member states in order to make their cooperation in the field of satellite navigation system possible.
in writing. i supported the report by mrs sartori on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use between the european union and ukraine. the extension of the european geostationary navigation overlay service (egnos) capability area to bulgaria, romania and poland will strengthen the streamlining and harmonisation of european transport policy arrangements.
in writing. i welcome the approval of this text, which will allow us to extend the signal of our satellite navigation system to ukraine. it is a project we are undertaking on a global scale, and in which europe has invested itself fully. this cooperation agreement will enable us to improve the coverage of our satellite navigation programme to ukraine's neighbouring countries, which will benefit many of our projects, for example in the field of transport.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will allow the eu to cooperate on the establishment of a global satellite navigation system with ukraine, one of the most competent countries in this field. i therefore support this agreement, which will stimulate european technological advances in this field and will make it possible to implement a number of elements of the european satellite navigation programmes.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague amalia sartori. this report dealt with the cooperation agreement between the european union and ukraine to strengthen cooperation in the field of satellite navigation and to extend the coverage area of egnos to ukraine. this agreement will contribute in particular to the achievement of the single european sky and to further european integration in the field of transport. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs sartori because i believe that the eu-ukraine cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system takes full account of all aspects relating to security, respect for privacy and efficiency in the implementation of this system. ukraine is also about to embark on its path towards association with the european union, with the decisive stage to be reached in vilnius in november. agreements such as this therefore provide the basis for strengthening cooperation with a state which has already expressed its willingness to join the european project. the adoption of a global civil satellite navigation system takes account of the increasingly urgent need for simplification and security on the part of citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the cooperation agreement with ukraine in the field of satellite navigation. the agreement will extend coverage to ukraine and improve coverage in nearby member countries such as poland, romania and bulgaria.
in writing. the gnss system will enable europeans to have a satellite navigation system independent of gps in the hands of the united states. however, this hope for independence is immediately tempered by the concept of 'interoperability' which is very present in the report, and which means that this system can be exploited by the usa, in line with the pooling of resources as envisaged in the smart defense project. in addition, the operation of this system, for civil or military purposes, can be entrusted to a private operator which perhaps explains why it will be paid for in the majority of its uses. i cannot agree to that, so i abstain.
in writing. because we need to be able to help workers who are experiencing the structural changes linked to globalisation, i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for lombardy, where 529 workers have been made redundant.
in writing. i welcome the approval of this €3.7 million aid under the european globalisation adjustment fund to help hundreds of italian workers in the new technology sector who have been made redundant as a result of developments in international trade. europe is mobilizing to help workers in the regions most affected by the crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it seems to me appropriate, in this situation, to call on the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up to provide support for workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. italy fulfils the criteria for egf assistance, as the contraction in consumer demand for information and communication technologies (ict) and the decline in business investment in this area have contributed significantly to the slowdown in this sector.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague salvador garriga polledo which supports the commission's proposal to mobilise more than €1 million. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the european parliament voted this morning by a large majority to approve the allocation of eur 3.7 million for former employees of de tomaso automobili, anovo italia and jabil mc. the ceiling, which is part of the broader instrument of the european globalisation adjustment fund, will be broken down as follows: the commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the aid granted to the italian company de tomaso. with today's vote we have done our part, succeeding in guaranteeing a system of reintegration into the labour market for employees who have been affected by the economic crisis. the decision taken today once again highlights the role that europe has and must continue to play in this period of crisis: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states, and to extend it to the whole of the union.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the request to support the reintegration into the labour market of 529 workers made redundant by anovo and jabil in italy in the information and communication technology sector. i am in favour of funding social measures, particularly training courses to help workers who have lost their jobs. but this should not absolve companies of their social and territorial obligations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european adjustment fund to provide assistance to workers whose redundancies are a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. this report follows a request for intervention by italy following redundancies in the companies anovo italia and jabil cm.
in writing. it should be recalled that the european globalisation adjustment fund was designed to counter the potential negative consequences of globalisation, understood as widespread liberalisation. the total amount of the fund for italy is eur 1 164 930. the request was made following the dismissal of 529 workers from anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l., italian companies in the information and communication technology sector, 480 of whom are covered by fund co-financing measures. the reasons given for these redundancies are the contraction in consumer demand for ict, due to the crisis but without a criticism for the austerity policies that are hitting italy and reducing its activity. the competition from low-cost countries is also mentioned, but no solidarity protectionist measures are proposed to counter it. it is therefore a matter of accompanying globalisation and its evils. this system is absurd. i shall abstain from voting.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the lombardy region, which is currently experiencing a difficult financial period. the aid will help to co-finance active labour market measures in the region aimed at the reintegration of dismissed workers and the creation of long-term sustainable jobs for the population of the region.
in writing. the italian ict sector is suffering from strong competition from developing countries and the widening digital divide between italy and other countries. this has led to a reduction in the number of employees in italian companies in this sector, as was the case with the 529 workers who were made redundant in lombardy in 2011. the italian authorities have requested the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help them. while i regret that it took the commission 18 months to give its assessment of this request for a contribution, i am in full support of the mobilisation of this fund to help these workers. the measures it will co-finance include skills assessments, advice and support for self-employment, tutoring and assistance during a traineeship. more generally, i am very pleased with the reintroduction of the crisis mobilisation criterion in the fund regulation for the period 2014-2020 originally intended for those who lose their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade. in the current economic climate, i think this is essential.
in writing. in response to the major changes in the structure of world trade which have resulted in the dismissal of 1 030 workers in italy at de tomaso automobili s.p.a., i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support.
in writing. europe is now mobilizing to help nearly 1000 employees in the italian automotive industry who have suffered the consequences of the rapid changes in this market and now have to face the consequences of their dismissal. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is a concrete tool for europe to help its workers to re-enter the labour market as quickly as possible and to participate in the recovery of their economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i think it is legitimate to help companies in the automotive sector which are suffering from major changes in the structure of world trade. the figures clearly show that the european automotive construction sector is growing at a significantly lower rate than its main competitors, which translates into a decline in the union market share in this sector. this justifies the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to deal with redundancies in this sector.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague dominique riquet, who calls for an acceleration of the mobilisation of this instrument to the tune of eur 2.5 million and welcomes the improvements made to the procedure by the european commission. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i vote in favour of the request for support for 1010 of the 1030 workers laid off at de tomaso automobili in italy because of the impact of the crisis on the european automobile industry. i am in favour of financing social measures, including training for workers who have lost their jobs, but this should not absolve companies of their social and territorial obligations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which comes after a request from italy for a financial contribution following the dismissal of 1030 workers at tomaso automobili. this application meets the criteria for providing additional support to redundant workers to help them re-enter the labour market.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to mobilise a total amount of eur 2 594 672 from the fund for italy. the request was made following the dismissal of 1 030 workers from the italian automobile manufacturer de tomaso automobili s.p.a., 1 010 of whom were covered by measures of co-financing from the fund. italy argues that the european automotive construction sector is growing at a significantly lower rate than its main competitors, which translates into a decline in the union market share in this sector. rather than being subjected to competition based on social and ecological dumping, the industry's recovery is based on ecological conversion. the union's money would be better spent on inventing the vehicles and engines of the future that run entirely on renewable and co2-free energy. rather than sticking to the current model of the individual polluting vehicle that is doomed. i abstain in order not to encourage a frantic productivism without depriving italian workers of this fund.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this report, which seeks to mobilise almost eur 3 billion from the globalisation adjustment fund for italy, requested following the dismissal of more than 1000 workers at the italian car company de tomasco automobili. this aid, which will consist of co-financing training and job-search measures, is essential for the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market.
in writing. corruption perpetuates inequality, injustice and discrimination in the equal enjoyment of human rights. the european union can only become a credible and influential actor in the fight against corruption if it responds appropriately to the problems of corruption. i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the member states to strengthen the capacity of national anti-corruption institutions and on all eu companies to take responsibility and respect human rights in third countries.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of mrs gomes' report, as it is a further step in the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering, both within and outside the eu's borders. it seeks to put an end to banking secrecy by asking member states to amend their criminal law and to promote the automatic exchange of information. each year, about 30% of official development assistance is diverted from public budgets in developing countries. the adoption of this report thus aims to encourage the participation of programme beneficiaries, by contributing to greater control, accountability and transparency of european aid beyond the borders of the european union. the union must be a major player in tax governance through these actions to combat fraud.
in writing. corruption, ranging from bribery and extortion to nepotism, can have a devastating effect on the economies of third countries. these practices drain the coffers of the state, undermine free trade and discourage investors. the cost of poor governance and corruption is between 3 and 5 percent of global gdp each year, and the volume of bribes is a trillion dollars, equivalent to the annual gdp of the entire african continent. corruption also has considerable social, political, and environmental costs. it undermines democracy and makes possible serious damage to the environment and human safety by bribing the authorities responsible for enforcing regulations. the eu, the world's largest contributor of development aid, must empower itself to become a credible actor in the fight against this scourge. it is essential that the recipients, as well as the donor countries, adopt a responsible attitude. in this sense, the integration of the concept of democratic ownership into development aid policies or the establishment of a monitoring system would be an important step forward.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because the european union can only become a credible and influential actor in the fight against corruption if it responds appropriately to the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within its own borders. i support in particular the need to establish greater accountability and transparency in external aid so that it is put to good use.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague ana gomes. the report exposes the corruption that produces inequalities, injustices and discrimination in human rights. it is essential that the european union responds to and addresses the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within and outside its borders. the european union, through its action and that of its member states, will become a credible and influential actor in the fight against corruption. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the european parliament adopted on tuesday 8 october a report proposing ways to combat corruption in the public and private sectors. i voted in favour of this text, which deals specifically with the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering inside and outside the european union. with my fellow meps, we are calling for greater participation by the beneficiaries of development aid programmes in third countries and for better control, accountability and transparency of external aid in the fight against corruption. in concrete terms, we call on the member states to strengthen their powers over persons of any nationality who are in their territory and have committed acts of corruption or misappropriation of public funds, and we call for the capacity of anti-corruption institutions to be strengthened. it is also the responsibility of eu companies to respect human rights in third countries and to ensure that they do not contribute to corruption in those countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which states that, in order to become a credible actor in the fight against corruption, the european union must respond adequately to the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within and outside its borders, encourage the participation of programme beneficiaries in third countries and contribute to increased control of external aid in the fight against corruption. to this end, member states should strengthen the capacity of anti-corruption institutions.
in writing. this report is well-intentioned: to fight corruption. but it's a narrow view of corruption that's developed there. the most important part of corruption, tax evasion and fraud, is hardly mentioned. the eu's responsibility for the impoverishment and weakening of the state in the countries of the south has been ignored, while it is the liberalisation measures imposed by the eu in the economic partnership agreements that contribute to the development of corruption by depriving the states of their sovereignty. the report also suggests that corruption is the preserve of the public sector, as the private sector is largely spared from its considerations, while it is the main driver of corruption via international offshore finance. the means employed are not at all commensurate with the crime. the commission is also proposing to transfer the responsibility for assessing the risks of corruption to the imf, an undemocratic institution whose members are themselves accused of corruption. this is a bad joke. what good is it to denounce corruption without taking any action to actually tackle it? i vote against it because i do not want to encourage this hypocrisy.
in writing. this report analyses the impact of corruption on the functioning and development of states and the resulting human rights problems. however, while the stated objective of fighting corruption is laudable, nothing is said about the foundations of corruption that cause so many malfunctions at the state level. the report does not address the root causes that impede the action of states in their role of justice, control and redistribution of wealth, such as the increased influence of multinationals and lobbies on public decision-makers. worse still, the report points to a supposed direct link between corruption and the mentality of the societies in which it is prevalent. i therefore decided against this report which, while making a dangerous social observation, avoids addressing the real issues of the foundations of corruption in europe.
in writing. corruption is one of the reasons why states cannot develop and leads to the violation of human rights. when there is corruption, then a collusion is formed between the political, financial, corporate and organized crime communities, creating an elite that concentrates all power. the fight against corruption requires greater transparency and accountability on the part of all international actors. the resolution stresses the need to establish mechanisms for monitoring humanitarian aid or international aid provided by the european union in order to avoid corruption and ensure that the population benefits from it. i voted in favour of this resolution because the defence of the values of the european union requires the fight against corruption.
in writing. the poorest people in developing countries who are heavily dependent on public services are the main victims of corruption. these suffer disproportionately from the effects of petty corruption, including 'discreet corruption' where public officials do not provide the services or assistance for which they receive payment from the government (absent teachers in public schools or absent doctors in primary care facilities). i voted in favour of this report which analyses perfectly the shortcomings of corruption in developing countries. however, it is clear that the european union can only become a credible and influential actor in the fight against corruption if it responds appropriately to the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within its own borders.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it allows the european union to project itself into the future through a capacity to anticipate political developments. the report also recognises the essential role of cohesion policy, which is criticised by some but whose support is essential for the development of our european regions.
in writing. in order to be able to take coherent decisions, and above all to be in tune with the realities of the world around it, the european union needs to be able to identify the major global trends that will have an impact on its choices. through this european system of strategic and political analysis, the european union is equipped with an essential analytical and forward-looking tool to enable it to make its action more effective, to make a real difference in the daily lives of europeans.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague james elles, whose vote was in the context of the economic and financial crisis. proposals have been made to allow maximum flexibility in the national co-financing of union cohesion expenditure. it is also a question of making viable investment options available to national, regional and local authorities. the report was adopted by 604 votes in favour, 59 against and 6 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the espacs (european system of political and strategic analysis) can be a valuable tool for dealing with the next long-term economic and political challenges. the idea of establishing a system which could bring together officials from the three main european institutions, together with the european external action service, with a view to developing mechanisms for closer and regular cooperation between them, i think is the right way forward for a more effective approach to future challenges. strengthening the european union is and remains one of our main objectives, and in this sense, the establishment of a body whose function is to integrate the capacities of each of the european institutional bodies in the best possible way can certainly be functional in the future perspective of an increasingly global economy and a society in constant evolution.
in writing. the project to set up the european strategic and policy analysis system (espas), which would provide forecasts of long-term developments in major eu policy files for policy makers, may remove any democratic decision-making process from the major eu issues. this system, which would be formed of senior officials of the european union who would be responsible for conducting a reflection on the future of european politics, would, for example, provide a report to the future presidents of the union institutions on future political challenges at the beginning of each five-year institutional cycle. the lack of democracy in longterm political decision-making and the establishment of a system run by senior civil servants without the involvement of the social partners seems to me an aberration, and i will not support the establishment or financing of such a system.
in writing. the elles report reveals an a-democratic view of the world, increasingly shared by brussels technocrats. what is being proposed here in a european jargon that is meaningless to ordinary mortals? to set up a kind of european think-tank to forecast the long-term developments of the major policy files of the european union by 2030. the commission's proposals are not without merit, and the council has already shown its inability to make stable growth forecasts for next year. of course, this structure would have a 'governance' composed mainly of various and varied officials and lobbyists. the reign of experts presenting their ideological rigidities as scientific truths has proved its harmfulness. we are proposing that parliamentarians should also be included, but we feel that it would be better if we could do without them. i am voting against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on private international law and employment which seeks to improve the rules of jurisdiction applicable in the field of employment. in particular, to avoid that in the context of an employment dispute, the choice of the most favourable court is made to the detriment of the weaker party.
in writing. i have approved the regner report in plenary. the commission's owninitiative report highlights the difficulties of private international law in the area of employment legislation. while labour law remains in many respects a national competence, it is in many respects impacted by other member states. given the free movement of workers and the increase in cross-border disputes in the field of labour law, an extremely sensitive area with concrete implications for workers across the union, it is important to ensure that the rules allow the preservation of labour law. the rapporteur stresses the need for jurisdiction and the applicable law to be those of the same member state, both in the case of collective actions and individual employment contracts.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs regner's own-initiative report on private international law with a view to amending certain rules of labour law relating to jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. i fully support the adoption of this report which sets out the arrangements required for a substantial improvement in individual employment contracts and collective action. it provides better protection for employees.
in writing. the aim of this text is to encourage the emergence of rules enabling workers to enjoy the same protection before the courts throughout europe. the question of jurisdiction in matters of labour law remains an open question. we must protect workers, which is the obvious counterpart to the free movement of workers in the eu. i hope that this report will be a useful starting point for constructive reflection on the question of the protection of workers, particularly in crossborder disputes.
in writing. the increasing internationalisation of the activities of companies operating in several states and employing people of different nationalities requires an adequate update of the rules in force in the event of disputes between employers and employees. in this sense, the recast of the 'brussels i' regulation provides essential clarifications on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the european union must ensure that the provisions protecting workers' rights are strengthened. this requires greater consistency between the member states: the applicable law and the courts with jurisdiction in the event of a dispute must be from the same state and the establishment taken into account must be the one which provides the worker with his daily instructions. a clearer european legal framework for workers will ensure more effective protection of the weaker party in the event of a dispute.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i agree, in particular, that the member states remain competent to legislate in the field of labour law and that it is therefore not for the european union to try to interfere with national legislation in this field. it seems to me therefore important to prevent the courts of other member states from infringing the rules of the labour law of each member state. similarly, it is necessary to ensure that a member state has jurisdiction over disputes to which its own labour law applies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague evelyn regner, which sets out the conditions for constructive dialogue between employers and employees, particularly in the event of a dispute. i welcome the broad approval of this report.
in writing. on 12 december 2012, the recast of the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters was signed. the new rules will make it easier to enforce a judgment in another member state. the european parliament, however, regretted that certain questions concerning jurisdiction in the field of labour law remained unresolved and gave guidance on these issues in its resolution adopted on 8 october. i voted in favour of this text which proposes to simplify the rules of private international law in the field of labour, so that european citizens working in another member state know their rights and are protected in the event of a dispute. the resolution proposes, for example, that a worker who brings a claim against his employer should be able to consider the place from which he receives daily instructions rather than the place where he is employed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because the procedure for the recasting of the brussels i regulation, signed on 12 december 2012, on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, did not cover certain aspects of the rules of jurisdiction applicable to labour law, and it is necessary to make amendments to them.
in writing. this report is well-intentioned in order to protect the jurisdiction of national courts in matters of labour law and to prevent trade liberalisation from leading to legal situations which are unfavourable to workers. the aim is in particular to prevent the courts of other member states from infringing the rules of the labour law of each member state. however, this report has no legislative effect and will therefore not change the social dumping currently taking place in the union. the report is surprisingly silent on the services directive and the posting of workers directives, which are the main sources of circumvention of the laws and courts of the member states in the field of labour law. i am abstaining in order not to deny laudable improvements in crossborder judicial procedures, but i cannot endorse a report which ignores the root causes of the problem it denounces.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for europe to clarify certain rules on jurisdiction in labour law, which are the eu's responsibility when dealing with crossborder disputes. in other words: which court will rule on a dispute involving more than one member state ? in the absence of effective rules, eu case law sometimes faces inconsistencies in this area (i am thinking in particular of the torline case in 2004, where the court of justice gave danish courts jurisdiction to rule on the legality of a collective action brought in sweden). this is potentially disadvantageous for workers and trade union representatives exercising their rights, but it also means that in some cases the courts have to apply foreign law, which is questionable to say the least. to remedy this, this owninitiative report introduces two rules of common sense. the first is in matters of collective action (choice of court depending on the place where the collective action was brought), the second is in the field of contracts governed by individual law (jurisdiction where the establishment which gives the worker his daily instructions is located rather than the place where he was employed).
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because it aims to ensure that member states effectively verify that ships flying their flag comply with the maritime labour convention, which provides for extensive rights and protection at work for all seafarers.
in writing. the first maritime labour code, the ilo maritime labour convention, was adopted in 2006. this alignment, already transposed into eu law by directives in 2009, needed to be completed and improved as regards flag state liability. in 2009, the eu adopted rules on safety, quality management and pollution prevention. but the directive does not list the obligations of the flag state. with the berès report, these are clarified and seafarers' rights are strengthened. the state is obliged to ensure that its ships comply with the minimum international standards. the inspections, infringement procedures and complaint procedures on board are detailed in the text which member states must transpose in the coming months. the agreement reached between the council and parliament marks the end of the procedure and opens the way to a strengthening of the rules of maritime law.
in writing. i am pleased with the adoption of the report by mrs berès on ensuring decent working and living conditions on board eu ships in the exercise of their flag state powers. at community level, the implementation of the maritime labour convention (mlc), which provides for extensive rights and protection at work for all seafarers, is a determining factor in the european union's interest in maritime policy and its workers.
in writing. with this text, we guarantee equal protection for all maritime workers, bringing european provisions as close as possible to those of the international maritime labour convention. this would in particular help to limit the differences in interpretation which still too often lead to differences in treatment between workers and thus to unfair competition.
in writing. europe must have a social agenda for maritime transport to promote employment in this sector and ensure safe and decent working conditions for seafarers. the transposition into european law of certain standards of the maritime labour convention adopted by the ilo in 2006 will provide better protection for workers by establishing common minimum standards for all flags and seafarers. it is to be welcomed that the incorporation of the maritime labour convention into european legislation is the subject of a social dialogue involving shipowners and transport workers. the compromise reached on flag state responsibilities, which establishes mechanisms for inspecting compliance with european rules on board ships and sets out standards and procedures to be followed in the event of complaints from seafarers, provides a solid and precise framework for all maritime transport actors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because the european union provisions on flag state control should take much better account of the rules established by the maritime labour convention. this would avoid differences of interpretation between member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. i agree in particular that there is no question of reducing the level of protection which workers currently enjoy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pervenche berès which covers fundamental issues such as the minimum conditions required for work on board a ship and the conditions of employment. these arrangements will ensure decent working and living conditions on board ships. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the maritime labour convention was adopted in 2006 by the international labour organisation. it protects the safety of international shipping personnel by regulating working and living conditions on board ships. these new rules have been the subject of a collective agreement to be applied at european level, but the european parliament has ensured that this agreement is properly applied. i voted in favour of this text which establishes a maritime labour certificate and a declaration of conformity for maritime labour, regulates inspection and enforcement of the maritime labour convention, complaint procedures on board, and the responsibilities of the labour supplier. we have also clarified the application of the convention by adopting the principle that each state shall assume its responsibilities in respect of ships flying its flag.
in writing. the international labour organisation (ilo) adopted the maritime labour convention (mlc) in 2006, which provides for extensive rights and protection at work for seafarers, regardless of their nationality and the flag state of their ship. i am voting in favour of this report which proposes that the provisions of the maritime labour convention 2006 on flag state control be incorporated into european union law in a more detailed and specific way. the level of protection of seafarers will be improved, including the addition of a system of inspection and certification of maritime working conditions ensuring that the working and living conditions of seafarers on board ships comply with international standards.
in writing. this text is one of the steps in the transposition into european law of the ilo maritime labour convention of 2006. this convention sets minimum rules for the protection of seafarers and provides for control procedures which make the flag state of the ship responsible for ensuring that these rules are applied. the directive as amended by the beres report concerns these control procedures, which it strengthens and harmonises in the eu. this should therefore help to reduce to a modest extent the disparities between states in the treatment of seafarers. the safeguards of the maritime labour convention are, however, too weak to stop the social dumping by certain shipping companies whose workers have far fewer rights. the report is silent on the fact that the eu is fuelling this dumping in the name of free competition and the free provision of services. on the contrary, foreign ships wishing to operate in the host country's ports should be required to comply with the host country's social legislation. i am not going to stop these meagre advances, but i have no illusions about the hypocrisy of the european social liberals who allow the development of savage competition between workers.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this report which is a major step forward in the protection of maritime workers in the european union. the report not only calls on the member states to ensure that maritime labour law is properly respected on european ships, but also calls for a wider integration of the international maritime labour convention into the european union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. this directive lays down provisions to ensure that member states effectively fulfil their obligations to implement the maritime labour convention. the aim is to strengthen the rights of seafarers through control and certification. these provisions substantially improve working conditions at sea, fill the existing gaps in the application of the maritime labour convention, which has already been ratified by 51 states, and will re-engage member states to take the necessary measures. the pressure of international competition, which is reflected in the pressure of the sponsors on the crews, increases the working time of the seamen without the workforce following suit, thus creating the risk of fatigue and accidents. it is essential to take account of working conditions. the pressure of regulations increases the working hours of seamen without the workforce following suit. in addition, international competition between flags and those states which have not ratified the convention weakens the efforts of companies to improve safety. it is time for the european union to step up the implementation of the maritime labour convention 2006.
in writing. i voted for this because it restores the truth about tobacco products: manufacturers will no longer be able to put any chemical in cigarettes, marketing will be better regulated and packages will have to be covered with 65% health warnings. the aim is clear: to dispel the smoke cloud of the tobacco industry, which is trying by all means to exploit these products, which cause the death of some 700 000 european citizens every year. we want to protect young people from the totally false appeal of tobacco while respecting the freedom of voluntary smokers. as regards electronic cigarettes, their production, advertising and sale will finally be regulated to prevent our citizens from vaping without knowing whether or not what they inhale is dangerous to their health. for me it is clear that e-cigarettes must remain a tool to combat smoking and in no way a fashion phenomenon for young people looking for new experiences! i am very happy with the outcome of this vote, having experienced the toxic effects of tobacco myself.
in writing. the macavan report on the tobacco directive, which has received a great deal of attention, is, in my view, a balanced report after the vote. the directive must strike a balance between protecting individual freedoms and public health measures. this vote is neither a victory nor a defeat for any lobby. the rules are tightened up, with health warnings covering 65% of the surface of the packaging, flavourings and imitation tobacco products being banned. e-cigarettes are prohibited for young people. it should not be regarded as a medicine but as a tobacco product. i voted against banning fine cigarettes and menthol. i'm against the principle of banning everything. while the aim of discouraging young people from smoking is a good one, i do not think that it justifies all bans: everyone is able to decide what is good for him. respect for individual freedoms must be taken into account in such legislation.
in writing. i supported the adoption of mrs mcavan's report to enable better information on the risks of tobacco use. i have advocated a realistic approach, taking a position in favour of freedom to smoke while being uncompromising about the need to inform consumers clearly. i voted against the medicinal status of e-cigarettes, considering that this product is a smart substitute for conventional cigarettes. for the so-called 'slim' cigarette, i supported the banning of terms such as 'soft' or 'light' which might lead smokers to believe that these cigarettes are less harmful than others. as regards the messages on the dangers of smoking, i voted for 65% of the pack to contain these messages, this to raise awareness among smokers. the adoption of this report is a step towards greater transparency of information on the risks of smoking, at a time when tobacco is the leading cause of premature mortality in the european union.
in writing. i welcome the progress made by the mcavan report, despite strong pressure from the tobacco industry. increased health information on packages and, for those states which so wish, the introduction of neutral packaging, the ban on flavoured cigarettes, the regulation of electronic cigarettes and the ban on crossborder distance selling are all measures which will help to reduce the damage caused by smoking, especially among young people. i now hope that the negotiations with the council can be concluded before the next european elections.
in writing. tobacco kills 700 000 people in europe every year. yet it is the most easily preventable cause of death. in the face of this, europe must act and make tobacco control a public health priority. preventing and raising awareness among consumers, especially young people, are the main objectives of the new european legislation; more than 94% of current smokers started smoking before the age of 25. the eu must therefore do everything possible to prevent young people from being lured into this alienating and dangerous practice in the future. measures to reduce the attractiveness of tobacco and to ban products specifically targeted at young people or women, such as fine or flavoured cigarettes, are part of this. by accompanying these measures with clear and strict information requirements for all tobacco products, the eu is empowering consumers to make informed decisions. the e-cigarette will also have to meet these requirements and european standards of quality and safety, while remaining accessible to consumers who want to quit smoking.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i consider it important to update the current tobacco directive to take account of the emergence of new tobacco products. it balances the public health and tobacco industry issues and strikes a good balance in protecting our citizens from the threats of these harmful products. i am, however, in favour of protecting our farmers, particularly those in cross-border regions, who could then suffer from unbalanced competition with other member states. that is why i support the introduction of a quota on the import of cigarette packets within the european union.
in writing. on this issue, as several speakers have pointed out this morning, any question, objection or doubt is quickly met with a peremptory accusation: either you agree 100% with the anti-tobacco extremists or you are sold to the tobacco lobbies. a new godwin point was born: the "reductio ad philip morrissum". this accusation strikes those of us who don't see the point in banning menthol, medicalising e-cigarettes, or overemphasizing messages that no one reads. even if we, the critical minds, are in complete agreement with the idea of banning the sale of cigarettes to minors or on the internet, of considering that a pack of cigarettes should look like a pack of cigarettes, of strengthening the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting, of banning dangerous additives or fanciful flavourings, of imposing advertising of the ingredients, etc. but the anti-smoking ayatollahs never go to the end of their hygienic logic: total prohibition. in the name, they say, of a freedom they are constantly trying to restrict. especially in the name of the tens of billions of euros in taxes that this brings in. it is also questionable whether this logic, rather than health, has motivated their fight against e-cigarettes.
in writing. by voting, and despite unprecedented pressure from tobacco lobbies, i have above all wanted to defend the public health of our citizens, especially that of young people. tobacco is responsible for the deaths of nearly 6 million people worldwide each year, including 700 000 in europe. that is why i voted in favour of the proposals to prevent young people from starting to smoke, in particular by banning fine and flavoured cigarettes and lipstick packets. i also supported a warning covering 75% of the front and back of cigarette and roll-your-own tobacco packages, and a similar framing of e-cigarettes as medicines, irrespective of their nicotine content. finally, i supported the negotiating mandate given to my colleague linda mcavan, so that negotiations with the council could begin as soon as possible, with the aim of reaching a result, i hope, before the end of this mandate, and allowing the implementation of reform as soon as possible.
in writing. the debate on the tobacco directive has taken on unfortunate proportions, bearing in mind the controversy surrounding the tobacco industry's questionable practices or the focus on e-cigarettes which has obscured the main objective of this legislation: to combat smoking and harmonise distorted practices between member states. i have heard the arguments of organisations and doctors who have argued for bold legislation, perhaps too much - but that is also their role - to limit the manufacture and marketing of tobacco as much as possible. i have also heard of the companies and factories based in our territories which employ thousands of people, the landlords and farmers who are said to be deprived of a vital source of income. so it was not some american giant in this sector that guided my choice but the need to find the right balance between public health and the desire to preserve our jobs. if our factories close because they cannot compete with the big players in the market, international competitors will be strengthened. that is why the approach chosen by parliament seems to me the most reasonable and consistent option at the moment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague linda mcavan which sets out a framework for protecting public health. i am particularly pleased that electronic cigarettes are no longer considered as medicines and can be bought outside pharmacies with protective conditions for young people in particular. this is a step forward in supporting smokers who want to quit smoking, who are the main recipients. the report was adopted by 560 votes to 92, with 32 abstentions.
in writing. the tobacco directive has triggered a major political debate both at european and national level. the public's attention has been focused on the decisions we have taken in the house during the vote on the directive. our position could only be that we should favour a choice which would lead to greater protection of the health of the citizens, without, however, accepting decisions which would have the effect of dismantling an industrial sector which provides tens of thousands of jobs. the decisions taken, such as the introduction of the dissuasive images on cigarette packs and those relating to electronic cigarettes, can be described as a good result and a good response by the european parliament to the guidelines given by the commission and to public sentiment.
in writing. on tuesday 8 october, the european parliament adopted a directive harmonising the manufacture and sale of tobacco products throughout the european union. the text will make it possible to regulate the composition of tobacco products more effectively, for example by setting a maximum threshold for tar and nicotine levels. the presentation of tobacco products will also be subject to new rules, including images and warning messages. i voted in favour of this text in order to improve consumer protection and to prevent young people from becoming smokers, which is still one of the leading causes of preventable death in europe. however, this text is only a partial answer to the problem of tobacco. health messages have not proved effective in the fight against smoking, which is primarily about consumer empowerment and educating our young people. we have also regulated the manufacture and sale of e-cigarettes, whose health effects are still poorly assessed. however, i opposed the classification of e-cigarettes as a medicine, which would have limited access to the product for users participating in smoking cessation.
in writing. while i would like to see preventive measures put in place to safeguard jobs and to develop the search for new markets for tobacco producers, i am voting in favour of the report mandating negotiations with the council for the following reasons: preventive action, especially among young people and new smokers, is important in view of the high costs of healthcare and lives caused by tobacco dependence each year. the inclusion of hazardous substances in additives and flavourings is prohibited if they are included in the list of harmful and toxic substances; additives and flavourings that increase the attractiveness of tobacco products shall be prohibited as addictive commercial promotion; the sale of e-cigarettes also needs to be regulated because of the presence of chemicals that are currently beyond any control over their harmfulness.
in writing. i voted in favour of the directive which aims to make tobacco products less attractive in order to reduce tobacco consumption, particularly among young people. in fact, 70 percent of smokers start smoking before the age of 18, and the trend toward smoking among young people has unfortunately increased in recent years. i voted in favour of increasing the surface area of health warnings on cigarette and rolling tobacco packs and making them clearly visible when sold, as they are placed at the top of the packs. i voted in favour of banning flavourings and additives in tobacco products such as mint, chocolate and strawberry flavourings, which will be banned in the short or long term. finally, i voted in favour of the exclusive sale of e-cigarettes in pharmacies, because i do not want young people who are attracted to the easily available e-cigarette to turn to regular tobacco.
in writing. the fight against smoking and the implementation of a who convention are good things. i'm all for it. the bill forces tobacco companies to do more stringent testing. it was necessary. but at the same time, this directive regulates the medicalisation of tobacco products by giving full power to the pharmaceutical lobbies. in view of the hard work of the tobacco lobbies to defeat this text by all means, i vote in favour, so as not to prevent this advance in the field of health from the tobacco industry.
in writing. smoking is the number one preventable cause of death in the european union. however, european regulations have paid off, with the number of smokers cut almost in half over the past decade. the new commission proposal aims to go even further in this objective of reducing smoking, by tackling in particular smoking among young people, the first victims of tobacco in europe. it is also to oppose the powerful lobbies of the tobacco industry that i have decided to vote for this report.
in writing. after months of pressure, postponement and intimidation, we were finally able to express our views in a calm manner by voting on the reformed regulations on the sale of tobacco products. my position is clear and has not changed since this debate began: we must not compromise on health, but we must also protect our traders, our retailers, from unfair competition from the border countries and the illegal trade in cigarettes. that is why i am today firmly opposed to the misleading and dangerous positions of the tobacco lobby, which does not want to improve prevention methods, in particular the size of the messages on the packages. but to protect our fellow citizens, i ask that governments be allowed to limit the number of cigarettes an individual can bring into a country. it is necessary to save the activity of our local shopkeepers in our region, those local businesses which support whole villages but which are ultimately threatened by the massive importation and illegal trade in cigarettes from spain and other countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on tobacco. the worst was feared, however, as this revision is a sensitive matter and is being pressured by powerful lobby groups. although there was agreement on the need to strengthen prevention and information, there was no consensus on the modalities of this. in addition, with the emergence of new tobacco products, we needed to take a precise and effective stance on a complex issue - of course, i am thinking of electronic cigarettes and the question of their medical use. on the prevention side, my group's amendments have been useful compromises, capable of securing a majority. the health warnings will now have to cover at least 65% of the surface of the packages put on sale. the sale of electronic cigarettes will not be restricted to pharmacies. in addition to the ban on sale to persons under 18 years of age, preventive measures are laid down in the same way as for conventional tobacco. this will help to prevent young people from starting to smoke, while preserving the product's attractiveness for smokers who want to substitute it for the much more harmful conventional cigarette.
in writing. i welcome the balanced result we have achieved in this vote. for example, the health label will cover 65% of the surface of a tobacco package, compared with 40% today. as regards the electronic cigarette, i welcome the realism of the solution we have succeeded in adopting: it will not be considered a medicine, and that is quite normal: it is not one. it will therefore always be available for sale free of charge, either from our estate agents or from specialist shops. the amendment allowing member states to limit cigarette imports by means of quotas was adopted as a further demonstration of realism. this measure will enable the tobacco growers in our cross-border region, who are very much affected by these parallel imports, to put pressure on the current government to finally decide to restrict tobacco imports for personal use and to better combat the illicit trade in cigarettes.
in writing. the directive makes it possible to regulate the sale of tobacco to reduce its attractiveness by imposing health messages on 65% of cigarette packets and regulating the distribution of electronic cigarettes. tobacco kills more than 700 000 europeans a year. however, 70 percent of smokers start smoking before the age of 18, and 94 percent before the age of 25. i therefore voted in favour of the measures proposed in this text which will reduce the attraction of tobacco among young people. we have managed to find a balanced compromise which does not consider e-cigarettes as a pharmaceutical product but proposes to regulate their distribution. finally, i voted in favour of the paragraph limiting intra-european imports of tobacco for personal consumption in order to avoid smuggling and unfair competition for tobacco manufacturers. this is excellent news for our border areas.
in writing. this text harmonises at european level all aspects of the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and tobacco products. when i voted for this text, i opposed all the devices proposed by the tobacco industry to make cigarettes more attractive to young people. i have supported, in particular, the requirement to have a health message of 65% on the top of the pack, the ban on slim and flavoured cigarettes, strict regulation of the size of cigarette and rolling tobacco packages and the ban on 10-pack cigarettes. many studies show that smoking is beginning at an increasingly young age. in addition, electronic cigarettes are considered by the scientific community to be an excellent means of cessation. i have therefore decided not to classify e-cigarettes as medicines, as i believe they should be readily available to anyone who wants to stop. finally, in view of the difficulties faced by the tobacco growers in the border areas, which are linked to unfair competition imposed by price differences between member states, i supported the possibility for the member states (and therefore for france) to restrict cigarette imports.
in writing. smoking kills nearly 6 million people a year worldwide, including 700 000 in europe. it is important to discourage the younger generations from entering the cigarette trade if the older generation is not persuaded to stop. 70% of smokers start before the age of 18 and 94% before the age of 25. debates raged between the right and the left over the manipulation of the tobacco industry lobbies. for just one of these big firms, there are 161 lobbyists who wield influence. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the main points are: - the obligation to include warnings on the dangers of cigarettes on 65% of the surface of the package. - the progressive prohibition of the use of flavourings in the manufacture of cigarettes. - the removal of packets of less than 20 cigarettes. - moreover, e-cigarettes should be regulated but not subject to the same legislative framework as medicinal products, unless they are presented as having curative or preventive properties. it's a notorious breakthrough against smoking.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, smoking is now killing 700 000 people in europe. the alarming fact is that young people are smoking at an increasingly young age. 70% of smokers started before they were 18. the tobacco industry is particularly keen on these young people, knowing full well that they will be the regular smokers of tomorrow. it was time for the european union to respond to this public health problem. the current tobacco directive, adopted 12 years ago, has set minimum rules on tobacco. the report proposes to tighten some of these provisions, including measures to discourage young people from selling tobacco. we are trying to discourage the emergence of a new generation of smokers. however, this fight has not been easy and we have been confronted by tobacco lobbyists who will do anything to reduce the binding measures contained in this report. i therefore welcome the vote on the mcavan report.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has been given, in extremis, a mandate to negotiate with the council to try to reach an agreement by the european elections in may 2014. parliamentarians had to face many obstacles, manipulations and pressures during the three years of discussions and negotiations. the beginning of the withdrawal period for the tobacco industry is beginning, despite the indecent complacency of the right wing towards the interests of the very powerful tobacco lobby, we voted today for an ambitious negotiating mandate. the conservatives, liberals and eurosceptics have failed to block the process, despite their attempts to "smoke" the european parliament. but we must remain vigilant: there is no guarantee that we will be able to finalise the negotiations before the european elections in 2014. we must prevent the tobacco lobbyists from winning a majority in the next parliament and finally winning the battle with the help of the 161 lobbyists employed by philip morris.
in writing. our assembly has voted on a complex text and i welcome the fact that a pragmatic position has been adopted. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i refused to be simplistic, because two facts are clear: smoking is part of the daily lives of millions of europeans, it creates thousands of jobs, but it is also one of the main causes of death. i therefore supported a balanced position on the health message, which should cover 65% of the packaging, with slim and menthol cigarettes, which cannot be removed overnight, but with an eight-year moratorium. my concern is not to eliminate tobacco, which is not realistic in the short term, but to discourage as many new smokers as possible, especially young people who wrongly see it as a recreational phenomenon. the union is building a strong and balanced arsenal, which must be accompanied by awareness campaigns and support mechanisms for consumers who want to quit smoking. our parliament has come halfway, the member states must do the rest.
in writing. i have supported this fisheries agreement negotiated between the european union and mauritania, considering it beneficial. it proposes fishing quotas for cod, shrimp and tuna sufficient for eu fishing vessels, while offering a satisfactory financial counterpart to mauritania. this compensation will be used to develop the coastal fisheries sector in mauritania. the agreement includes a human rights clause and a priority clause for the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of approving the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania. contrary to what the rapporteur proposed, i think it would have been extremely damaging to both parties to vote against the protocol to the agreement. this partnership agreement with the european union is the first agreement of the union in financial terms, but also in terms of catch volumes; a lot of jobs depend on it. it is also beneficial for the european union. the protocol contains fishing quotas for hake, shrimp and tuna which are sufficient for european union fishing vessels. it also includes a priority clause for european vessels. this allows the activity of fleets that are more transparent in terms of the conservation of fisheries resources to be given priority. the union, on the other hand, will have access only to surplus resources and will provide financial compensation to mauritania, which is essential for the development of the mauritanian fisheries sector.
in writing. parliament has adopted this fisheries protocol with mauritania, and i welcome that. the first beneficiaries will be the european fishermen. and it is a strong signal to our mauritanian partner, with a text that establishes sustainable fisheries and takes into account the needs of the local population.
in writing. the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania strikes a balance between, on the one hand, access to surpluses off the mauritanian coast for european fishermen and, on the other, protection of the marine environment and the renewal of stocks. this compromise is in line with the new cfp objectives of more sustainable fisheries and more responsible management of marine resources. this comprehensive agreement will allow european fleets to catch various fish and shellfish species in return for a payment to mauritania of eur 70 million per year, of which eur 3 million will be allocated to the development of local fisheries. the financial contribution will also help to set up a mauritanian fleet so that, when the protocol expires in two years' time, it can fully exercise its sovereignty and exploit the resources of its territorial waters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this protocol because this fisheries agreement is probably the most important for the union, both in terms of the volume and diversity of fishery products and in terms of financial compensation. this protocol will be used to develop the coastal fisheries sector in mauritania. i am also in favour of including a clause giving priority to european fleets in the agreement. mauritania will now be obliged to offer the eu better conditions than it offers to other fleets.
in writing. the agreement between mauritania and the eu is an example of an encouraging fisheries agreement. it is the first protocol which really takes into account environmental and development concerns, in particular by allowing mauritania to take ownership of its own needs. the european union has undertaken not to use its fleet to fish for species for which mauritania also has a national fleet. this agreement was negotiated with the support of civil society and is proof that not all trade agreements are necessarily always negative. this new protocol is in line with the principle of policy coherence for development and strengthens local fisheries while integrating environmental imperatives. however, some questions remain, such as how to control the system and stop illegal fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation which proposes to support a fisheries agreement which will establish fishing quotas for the european union, while proposing financial compensation for the development of the coastal fisheries sector in mauritania and making it conditional on respect for human rights. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i believe that the protocol setting out fishing opportunities and the financial contribution between the european union and mauritania cannot be concluded and that a new protocol must therefore be negotiated. mauritania has not developed a fishing tradition and the eu has already offered €156 million to help the country in its social and economic development in order to create the ideal conditions to encourage foreign investment. the current protocol, however, does not bring any benefits either for the european union, since the conditions for exploiting the fishing opportunities obtained prevent their profitability, or for mauritania, which without the eu fleet will lose a good part of the financial contribution.
in writing. two out of three fish consumed in europe are imported. to secure its supplies, the eu enters into agreements with producing countries, often developing countries, when these countries lack the know-how, technical and human resources or political will to exploit their fishery resources. these measures cause prices to fall and penalise local small-scale fishermen. today mauritania is in a position of strength. the terms of this agreement, which was negotiated at great length, are markedly different from those of the previous one. the conditions for access to the resource are tightening and obligations for the development of local populations are being introduced, while the financial counterparts are increasing. the rapporteur recommends that this agreement be rejected and its terms renegotiated. i also understand mauritania's motives for defending its fisheries resources in a sovereign manner. i vote against it.
in writing. the fisheries protocol between the european union and mauritania provides that european fishing vessels are allowed to catch various fish and shellfish species in mauritanian waters in return for an eu payment of €70 million per year, of which €3 million will be devoted to development aid for the local fisheries sector. this protocol, unlike the previous fisheries agreement, imposes strict requirements on european vessels, which are as much in favour of more sustainable fishing and the protection of marine resources as of the economic and social development of mauritania. for example, the crews of european vessels fishing in mauritanian waters must be 60% mauritanian fishermen and the european fleet will have to redistribute part of its fishery to the local populations. because it represents a balanced agreement and is designed to protect mauritanian resources as well as the commercial advantages of the european union, i have decided to vote in favour of this protocol.
in writing. i voted in favour of approving this protocol because the fisheries partnership agreement with mauritania, which has been in force since 1987, grants fishing opportunities to seven eu member states and its financial counterpart allows the development of small-scale fishing in mauritania. i therefore voted against the proposal by the rapporteur from the committee on fisheries, who called for the rejection of this protocol in the face of any legal certainty for companies in the sector. the rejection of this agreement would have resulted in the cessation of fishing activities for at least three years. i therefore welcome the outcome of the vote in plenary, which was overwhelmingly in favour of its approval.
in writing. i supported the adoption of the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania because it is beneficial for both parties: it proposes sufficient fishing quotas for hake, shrimp and tuna for european union fishing vessels, while offering a satisfactory financial counterpart to mauritania. this compensation will be used to develop the coastal fisheries sector in mauritania. in addition, the agreement includes a clause on respect for human rights in mauritania. i think it is important that the fisheries resources off the coast of african countries should first benefit the local populations, who do not have the same fishing resources as european seafarers. in this area, a coherent approach to development is needed. we cannot give development aid to the government of mauritania and at the same time prevent its people from enjoying the full benefits of their maritime resources.
in writing. this own-initiative report examines in particular the causes, current trends, consequences and ways of combating practices aimed at pre-birth sex selection, which can also take the form of negligent infanticide. it also calls for legislation against sex selection. i therefore chose to support this report by voting in favour.
in writing. in some parts of the world, gender inequality has taken a dramatic turn. selective abortion (matricide), abuse of women, the one-child policy and pressure for birth control have dramatic consequences for women and girls. globally, it is estimated that more than 200 million women are 'missing' because of genicide. the european union must mobilise all the means of its external policy to combat this ultimate crime, including gendercide in its dialogue with third states, recalling that equality between men and women remains one of the union's fundamental principles and encouraging the countries concerned to put in place binding legislation with criminal sanctions to end these practices. the eu must also work to eradicate the political, economic, social, cultural and religious causes that contribute to the privileging of men and the mistreatment of women.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because gendercide is a crime and a serious violation of human rights, which we, meps, must fight against. in particular, i am in favour of encouraging states to develop and promote empowerment legislation and policy frameworks to address the root causes of inequalities in sex selection.
in writing. "women are the future of humanity, they think of the community before they think of themselves", julienne lusenge said very rightly. violence against women is a challenge for the whole world. inequality, sexual slavery, female genital mutilation, gendercide, femicide, the list goes on and on of the violence that women suffer simply because they are women. these atrocious practices are endless and relentlessly violent! the result is a tragedy: more than 200 million women worldwide are "missing". the eu says it wants to make women's rights a priority in future sustainable development strategies. environmentalists are at the forefront of this, including by insisting that the issue of gender discrimination be included in human rights clauses in international agreements. as the fictional rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on development, i have followed this matter closely. the adoption of this report was fraught with significant challenges. its primary objective is to end the barbaric practice of female genicide, sometimes called prenatal sex selection. it is a complex, long-term task, with multiple socioeconomic and cultural factors.
in writing. i spoke in favour of a progressive report on women's health and respect for their rights. the report highlights the fundamental reasons why matricide persists in many societies: a preference for sons, gender inequality and a deeply rooted patriarchal culture. measures to end this exist, such as combating persistent discrimination against girls, guaranteeing inheritance rights for women, and preserving the economic, educational and political autonomy of women and girls. women's access to health care, including prenatal and maternal care, education and microcredit must also be developed to end this worrying phenomenon. finally, i voted against the amendments to restrict access to sexual and reproductive health services and to defend conscientious objection in hospitals and medical institutions, because they are certainly not adequate solutions to ending the practice of genicide.
in writing. i am pleased that this controversial report has been able to come to fruition by adopting a balanced approach to all forms of gendercide. it combines the need to combat gendercide while preserving women's right to access sexual and reproductive health services and builds on the work done by my colleague raul romeva in the previous legislature with his report on femicide adopted in 2007. this resolution explores both the causes, the different forms of current gendercide, the consequences and the means to combat such practices both outside and within the eu. i regret, however, that one of the amendments tabled by mrs zaborska and a minority of colleagues who in this parliament still advocate, in 2013, a restriction on access to sexual and reproductive health services, was adopted by a narrow margin. it is designed to prevent european funds from funding organisations that work on sexual and reproductive rights and provide essential health services to save the lives of thousands of women in developing countries.
in writing. this european parliament resolution condemns 'genericide', which consists of choosing the sex of a child before birth, and can also take the form of negligent infanticide. this paper examines the consequences and means of combating these practices, which are still unknown and whose impact both outside and inside the european union is still underestimated. i voted in favour of this resolution so that the european union and its member states can take concrete measures, including criminal sanctions for selective abortions. the european parliament, which is very active in the fight against discrimination against women, had to alert the european union to this sad reality.
in writing. i am voting for this report for the following reasons. it denounces the criminal act of genocide and fully supports women's rights to health and sexual and reproductive rights. it introduces the definition of gendercide as the systematic, deliberate and sexist murder of persons belonging to a particular sex. gender-based violence is an underestimated problem in many countries and also takes the form of infanticide and gender-selective violence. it stresses the importance of developing legislation against sex selection and better monitoring of the implementation of existing legislation, and places greater emphasis on the cultural and socioeconomic causes of the phenomenon. it called for greater cooperation between the commission and organisations such as the un, unicef, ohchr, unfpa, un women and who to combat gender selection practices and their root causes in all countries.
in writing. gendercide is a neutral term referring to the systematic, deliberate and selective mass killing of people of a particular gender. this is a growing problem: there are now 200,000 fewer women in the world. sex selection practices range from abortion to infanticide and are a reflection of patriarchal culture. this report focuses on the socioeconomic causes of this phenomenon and accordingly proposes the promotion of legislation in areas such as inheritance law, dowries and financial, social and other protection for the elderly. i vote for it.
in writing. the term "genocide" describes the practice of deliberately killing a person of the same sex solely because of that sex. recent estimates of the male-to-female ratio show an increase in the number of "absent" women in the world population, with the number approaching 200 million. i supported the adoption of this report, which has the immense merit of shedding light on this phenomenon, which unfortunately remains unknown. the report states that support measures for girls and women should be put in place by encouraging the creation of an educational and social environment in which women and men, as well as girls and boys, are treated equally. these programmes also involve the dissemination of non-stereotypical images of women and men and the strengthening of economic and social opportunities for women.
in writing. for years, some countries have had imbalanced male-to-female ratios, in that the proportion of the male population is higher than would be expected on the basis of the 'natural' ratio of men and women at birth and mortality rates. this imbalance is often the result of discrimination against boys, rooted in customs and economics, and exacerbated by declining fertility and pressures on smaller families. this has resulted in sex-selective practices, ranging from infanticide to more modern techniques of sex determination and choice, such as ultrasound scans and the sex-selective abortions that follow. the report 'genericide: missing women?' aims to combat this gender discrimination. i welcome the adoption of this resolution. i regret that many of the hard-line conservatives apparently did not understand the stakes of such a struggle. this was reflected in the vote on an amendment against forced abortion, which passed by 1 vote (316 to 315). abortion, of course, eugenics, not so much.
in writing. this report, commissioned and written by a colleague from my political group, highlights the impact of the economic crisis on the finances of regional and local authorities in the european union and the need to calibrate future regional policy as much as possible so that it can respond satisfactorily to these constraints. i therefore voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. i voted against the mazzoni report which is extremely critical of the economic governance that has been put in place in europe under this parliament. the report condemns in particular the stability and growth pact, which has helped to stabilise the euro area through the necessary budgetary discipline of the member states. it is also very critical of fundamental legislation such as the six-pack and the two-pack, which i supported. for these reasons i voted against the mazzoni report.
in writing. local authorities must be able to benefit from some flexibility in the management of their revenues to cope with the current trend of reducing their resources while increasing the expenditure required of them. however, i do not think that relaxing the conditions for the assessment of the stability and growth pact is the solution to their difficulties. we must remain consistent in our commitments and good governance efforts, and there is further flexibility to enable communities to cope with the current situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe, in particular, that regional and local authorities have a role to play in achieving the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is essential to make concrete proposals to introduce maximum flexibility in the national co-financing of the union's development expenditure in a context of strict implementation of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. my rejection of mrs mazzoni's report at the plenary session on 8 october naturally calls for clarification. it is important to assess how budgetary constraints are affecting our regions and to make recommendations where easing or improvements are needed. however, these proposals must be consistent with reality and respect the legal framework of the member states. mrs mazzoni denounces the 'austerity policies' pursued by the member states, without recognising that the policies of consolidation and rebalancing of public finances, although they are felt brutally in the daily lives of citizens, are the same ones that will ultimately guarantee the healthy recovery of their economies. the signs of recovery are already being felt in spain, italy... let us welcome them. the reduction in public spending must be targeted and not stifle promising projects. we must support the investments which will be the basis of growth. however, the stability and growth pact should not be manipulated in such a way as to impose on the european union and thus on all the member states what no single state can bear alone. let's not change the rules to accommodate weaknesses.
in writing. in this report, my colleague erminia mazzoni makes proposals to strengthen the role of regional and local authorities in the co-financing of the structural funds. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 433 votes in favour, 131 against and 50 abstentions. however, some points are too critical of the rules of economic governance, fiscal discipline policies and the stability and growth pact. in particular, it is important to support the introduction of macroeconomic conditionality in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs erminia mazzoni's report because we have repeatedly stated, both as a member state and as the italian delegation of the epp, that we must take up the fight to ensure that investment expenditure relating to the european structural funds is dissociated from the calculation of the deficit/gdp ratio and, therefore, is free from budgetary constraints. the opening up of the eu to this kind of activity, announced by president barroso last july, must be strengthened and welcomed more. the strictness of the accounts and the observance of the financial discipline of the public treasuries do not directly imply a freezing of investments. we believe, however, that the structural funds can and must be spent effectively and efficiently, in accordance with the programming criteria, and that the national share of funding devoted to them cannot be considered as current expenditure, otherwise the dichotomy between european policies will not be resolved: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. this european parliament resolution aims to find solutions to manage the large number of refugees fleeing the conflict in syria. according to the united nations, 3.5 million refugees will have left syria by the end of the year, threatening to destabilize the entire region. i voted in favour of this resolution because i want the european union to be involved in the effort to protect these refugees. we have called for a humanitarian conference to help syria's neighbours (especially lebanon, jordan, turkey and iraq) to welcome syrian refugees in the best possible conditions. we have also asked the member states of the european union to step up their diplomatic efforts in syria and to provide humanitarian aid to these refugees. finally, we called on european states to take in syrian refugees themselves and to guarantee fair access to asylum procedures. in order to enable the resettlement of refugees in emergency situations, member states will be able to use european funds, in particular the migration and asylum fund.
in writing. the funds that local authorities receive from central governments to guarantee productive investments have been significantly reduced as a result of eu austerity policies. the solutions proposed in this ambiguous report are in line with the dictates of the commission and the council and do not in any way guarantee that local authorities will be able to meet the demands of citizens or future projects. that is why i am voting against the proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which aims to formulate proposals for maximum flexibility in national co-financing of eu cohesion expenditure, as well as viable investment options for national, regional and local authorities.
in writing. the mazzoni report is paradoxical. on the one hand, it denounces the disastrous effects of austerity and highlights a chain of austerity that starts at the european and national levels and ends at the regional and local levels. on the other hand, it calls for the stability and growth pact (sgp) to be relaxed without calling into question the sgp and the tscg, whose famous 'golden rule' is in the same austerity vein. this is an inconsistent position: since the catastrophic effects of the drying up of public expenditure are being denounced, these two european texts must necessarily be attacked head-on. after we amended it, the right wing mobilized against this text. so i voted for it, not because i believed it, but because i wanted to defeat his manoeuvre.
in writing. with the crisis, local authorities are faced with the difficulty of securing productive investments in their territories. this own-initiative report presents concrete proposals to provide more flexibility for member states' public expenditure related to the implementation of programmes co-financed under cohesion and rural development policy. for example, the report proposes to exclude public expenditure related to the implementation of these programmes from the stability and growth pact. the report also very clearly rejects the principles of economic macro-conditionality, austerity policies and budgetary constraints. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which proposes concrete solutions to ensure the continuity of local public aid despite the crisis.
in writing. the global economic and financial crisis has undermined social, economic and territorial cohesion in the union with the consequences we are experiencing. the stability pact requires euro area countries to build budgets that are close to balance or in surplus. however, a contradiction soon appeared. if public investment expenditure is recorded as a liability in the public finances, these investments, which are conducive and even indispensable for future growth, will not be realised. no more stimulus policies. at a minimum, it was necessary to exclude from the deficit calculation public expenditure related to the implementation of programmes co-financed by the structural and investment funds under the csf (community stability pact). the left welcomes the fact that this resolution has received a majority of votes in the european parliament.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis has severely affected the financing capacity of the member states and of european regions, without the european union providing itself with the means for an ambitious recovery at community level. these budgetary constraints have a direct impact on the ability of our regions to implement projects that promote employment and the return of growth. the mazzoni report, whose vote i welcome, stresses the crucial role of cohesion policy and regional investment as a structuring element for our territories and a tool for promoting growth in europe. the strong proposal in this report, which calls for public expenditure linked to the implementation of programmes co-financed by the european structural and investment funds to be excluded from the definition of structural deficits, should also be underlined and applauded. the aim is to exclude community financing and its local, regional and national components from this definition.
in writing. the aim of this report is to bring together all the eu policies relating to this region of the world, in particular fisheries, development and trade policies. it aims to meet the needs of local populations for fishery products and to reduce regional pressure on tuna stocks, in particular the currently overfished bigeye and yellowfin tuna. i supported this report because it highlights the problems of the region while proposing solutions for better action by the european union in the region, especially in the areas of development and fisheries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fraga estevez report, which aims to coordinate all community policies in the pacific region, in particular those relating to fisheries, trade and development. the report proposes key and concrete recommendations for strong eu action in the region. the commission has also been active in the development of the regional cooperation policy, for example through the establishment of in-depth coordination with the actors in the region. with specific reference to maritime policies, this report actively supports pacific regional efforts to improve the sustainable management of resources and the sustainability of fisheries activities.
in writing. our fisheries agreements are a key tool in our relations with our partners in third countries, and especially in our relations with the developing countries of the pacific. this articulation should be made clearer so that we can make the most of it. i therefore support this report, which calls for a stronger regional approach and for our fisheries actions to be coordinated with development instruments, in particular the cotonou agreements and the european development fund.
in writing. thousands of people depend on the oceans for their livelihoods, which are their main source of food. sustainable fisheries therefore offer vital environmental and social benefits to pacific countries. the region suffers from poor governance of the fisheries sector, which is responsible for the depletion of fisheries resources. this has resulted in the impoverishment of fishing communities and the decline of food security, thus depriving the countries concerned of substantial economic income. to address these issues, the european union's development cooperation policy in this region must promote the establishment of robust fisheries management measures at national and regional level, such as fishing days quotas. this new approach must be able to meet the expectations of the various stakeholders, namely access and legal security for the european fleet, the fight against illegal fishing and the preservation of the region's resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, carmen fraga estevez, which highlights the problems of the pacific region while proposing solutions for better european union action in the region, especially in the areas of development and fisheries. i welcome the positive vote of the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report recommending the development of a long-term fisheries strategy in the western and central pacific. better coordination of european policies would have positive implications for the eu and for the states in this area of the pacific, which is particularly rich in fisheries resources.
in writing. fishing has become global. fish is not eaten where it is caught, and two out of three fish eaten in europe are imported. i do not like this model, i advocate relocating production and developing short circuits. participatory ecological planning work will have to be carried out. for the time being, the agreements between the european union and the producing countries must at least be of a high environmental and social standard. by giving priority to dialogue with regional fisheries management organisations and by focusing on support for developing countries, this report expresses a desire to do so. however, these fisheries issues are here included in the economic partnership agreement currently being negotiated between the eu and the pacific countries, thus demonstrating the new eu trade strategy which i cannot endorse. i vote against it.
in writing. the report recommends the establishment of a strategy on fisheries in the pacific region. the aim of this strategy is to establish a legal framework that allows for the protection of marine biodiversity, sustainable fishing and the introduction of measures to combat illegal fishing. the report also calls for the future fisheries strategy to be linked to the future of the cotonou agreement, which will, for example, promote the social and economic development of the pacific region, adaptation to climate change and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. i voted in favour of this report because it aims at better regulation of fisheries in this region.
in writing. there was a need to establish peaceful means of resolving conflicts that might arise from the decline of fisheries resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes that all the coastal states of these two seas ratify the united nations convention on the law of the sea in order to ensure good governance of the oceans. in addition, the report promotes cooperation and the exchange of good practice between coastal states and urges coastal states to ratify cooperation agreements on sustainable fisheries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the salavrakos report calling for an intensification of regional, national and european efforts to improve the regulation of access to resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. this report makes a concrete commitment to effective and peaceful governance in these two areas. the coastal states of these two seas are invited to ratify the united nations convention on the law of the sea with a view to the conservation of fishery resources and to establish peaceful means of resolving conflicts. the european union is thus expressing its determination to promote responsible fishing with a view to the conservation of fishery resources.
in writing. the mediterranean and black seas are vital to the european economy, where they play a central role in both maritime traffic and resource exploitation. this is why it is essential to strengthen cooperation between the states bordering them, to ensure that they continue to fulfil this role in the future through the sustainable management and exploitation of their resources. in the long term, the development of genuine governance for the region is an idea that deserves to be considered.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague nikolaos salavrakos. the report aims to propose peaceful solutions to resolve conflicts that could arise from the decline of fisheries resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. for nearly four centuries, territorial waters were fixed at the 3 nautical mile band, the range limit of a cannonball. international maritime law has replaced force, and 200-mile exclusive economic zones have been created. conflicts are now settled in the light of agreements and conventions under the auspices of the united nations. the maritime area covered by this report, where disputes remain over the delimitation of maritime borders among the 28 coastal states, is a major geopolitical and ecological issue. this report promotes dialogue and cooperation for the emergence of shared management. the confidence placed in the european commission, hostile to nations, and in the french republican system to advance this cooperation calls for caution, so i abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a regional approach to fisheries. it sets out objectives to eliminate overfishing, increase regulation of access to fishery resources and calls for greater cohesion and political cooperation between the coastal states of the mediterranean and black sea territorial waters. it also promotes cooperation agreements on sustainable fisheries. these are measures which i believe are positive in establishing a legal framework for the protection of marine biodiversity and the control of fish stocks.
mr president, mr belder, our portuguese colleagues will no doubt tell you that they have the advantage in relations with taiwan because they got there long before the dutch, but that is not the subject of today's debate. taiwan, fortunately, escaped communism in 1949 and, as a result, with the ingenuity of its people, the discipline of its culture, the traditional values that are still cultivated there, has experienced a development that is absolutely stunning. it's the kind of china that could have been if maoism had not been spared. the result is that the standard of living in taiwan has risen considerably, and this increase means that competition with taiwan, which is the necessary counterpart to international trade relations, is not based, or much less so, on social dumping, as is the case with other countries and, in particular, with this great communist country, which has become, it must be said, the paradise of the most cynical capitalism. i mean mainland china. i am not entirely convinced of the positive aspects of free trade. this is a matter we can discuss, but i believe, in any case, that we must not hesitate to enter into official relations with taiwan, to put an end to this hypocrisy, to let the people of taiwan and the people of mainland china freely decide on reunification into a china that would finally become free or mutually agreed and recognized independence. we must, in any case, support taiwan's candidacy for the united nations subsidiary organizations, where this territory has its rightful place.
in writing. it is time for our trade relations to be deepened within a legal framework. the eu does indeed support the one-china policy, not recognising taiwan's independence. there is no agreement governing our trade relations. this situation must change, without calling into question our one-china policy. first, taiwan has signed 19 agreements with the people's republic of china, demonstrating, if not its independence, at least a very special regime. then taiwan is a member of the wto. if it is not an independent state, it is a commercial power. other countries, like new zealand, have started to sign agreements with taiwan. it's time to make a move. without negotiating a free trade agreement right away, we should think about an investment protection agreement. the eu is the largest foreign direct investor. to maintain this place, we must put the right instruments in place. make no mistake, if we don't move forward with taiwan now, other countries will, we have a special place in it, it's a great asset to penetrate the asian market. so let us not let other states take our place because we have been cold, let us be bold!
mr president, the strength of air transport is based on its safety, which is a matter of very strict organization and regulation. this is why flying is the safest form of transport in the world, and it is also thanks to the professionalism of thousands of men and women whose jobs are getting more difficult every day. the commission's proposal to reverse the flight time limitation is to jeopardise the safety of passengers and crew. a british study of 500 airline pilots found that half had already fallen asleep at the controls and that when they awoke, a third of them had the other pilot asleep as well. yes, we need to go further in reducing night duty for everyone, including stewardesses and stewards. yes, we must go further with regard to the maximum number of flight hours over 12 months. yes, we must strictly limit the combinations of duty time and waiting time at the airport. then, to make some extra money for the shareholders, this parliament, whose majority starts to knock on the desks when it has voted for more than two hours, is going to force employees to work more than 11 hours! (applause from the left)
question for the council mr ferreira, can you tell me what you think of this parliament which wants to decide on people's lives without being held accountable and which can take offense, in the name of a stupid regulation, that employees, who come to the debate, applaud?
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank you for allowing me to speak for a few minutes or a few seconds at this stage of the debate, in direct response to the appeal or question from several of you, mr weber, mr swoboda, and of course mr verhofstadt, mrs sargentini, mrs zimmer, mr kirkhope, who have raised the question of refugees and expressed the wish for a european conference on this issue. my answer is yes, on behalf of the european commission. yes, i think that such a conference would not only be useful but necessary at this time, in the near future, to deal with several issues and put them together, which we do not always know how to do. there are lessons to be learned from this crisis, as from all crises: the question of humanitarian aid in these countries and in the european countries which are on the front line and cannot stand alone; the question of the conditions of reception of refugees; the question of the relentless fight against the traffickers of these men, women and children with all the necessary means; the question of the need to protect the rights of the most vulnerable; the question of the need to protect the rights of the most vulnerable; the question of the need to protect the most vulnerable; the need to protect the most vulnerable. the question, as i said earlier, of the pooling of civil protection resources, not doing more, but doing better together, and we know how to do it if there is political will; and then, the question of the development and stability of these countries so that people are not forced to leave. all these issues are serious enough to be put together and put together at the highest level. there are reasons, mr verhofstadt, why the heads of state and government, the european institutions, in liaison with the high commissioner for refugees, should sit together at the same table at such a conference. so the answer from the european commission is yes.
mr president, from the tragic tragedy in lampedusa to the influx of refugees from syria, events are leading us in this house today to reflect on our migration policies. this war in syria is devastating, particularly inhuman for the syrians, and it is our duty to help the syrian people and provide them with the necessary protection. while the un counts more than two million syrian refugees, as commissioner barnier said today, the conflict continues, and estimates put the number at more than three million by the end of the year. it is important to support neighbouring countries which, through their courageous open door policy, are providing refugees with effective protection, while avoiding their uprooting or excessive removal. the european union must continue to provide material aid to the neighbouring countries, which are hosting 97% of the refugees from this conflict. at this stage, more than two billion euros have been released by the european union. we must also continue to work for peace in syria and for stability in the region, and for all those people who are suffering. but, commissioner, we very much welcome your reply to the question put by a number of members, which i was also going to put to you on behalf of our group, as did mr manfred weber. the commission is indeed very pleased to accept parliament's request, and we are very pleased about that. but we also face a more global problem. how can the flows of refugees be managed at european level? commissioner malmström has worked towards this. how can we have a better distribution of refugee flows, a better solidarity? the member states are not prepared today to sit down at the table and respond to the request of commissioner malmström. i hope that mrs malmström will be heard today.
mr president, i have heard the proposals as you have, and i appreciate the reply given by mr barnier on behalf of the commission. many of us in this house have been calling for quite some time for the issue of migration policies to be seen in a global way, and no longer simply in fragments, which, taken together, are certainly of interest, but do not form a global response to the challenges of migration at international level, which obviously affect europe. i therefore welcome this reply and will of course also listen with great interest to the council's reply, hoping that, once again, the response will not be simply an accumulation of national responses, as we have often heard, according to the interests of each country, depending on how far away they are from the borders and flows of displaced persons. i would like to emphasize, finally, one aspect of this resolution on asylum, stating that, of course, the budgetary and logistical support given to the countries neighbouring syria is fundamental, but that it is not sufficient in my view. europe must, of course, be able to assume its share of responsibility in the reception of displaced people, those who wish to do so in any case. otherwise, this common regime which we have worked so hard to develop would be an empty shell if people seeking protection were unable to reach europe safely or, in return, had to take migration routes which are increasingly dangerous and costly. we must therefore take responsibility, because it is not by pushing back the frontiers of the emergency that it will not knock on the doors of the union. the member states have a fairly large arsenal of operational, legislative and financial resources to ensure that these regular routes of entry into european territory are completed. we need to ease visa requirements, we need to issue humanitarian visas, we need to engage in resettlement programmes. i would add that france has said that it will also take part in this process. we must also open up new avenues through unhcr. the conditions demand it. and i think that would allow us to be, for once, truly in solidarity with syrian refugees and the countries that are hosting them.
mr president, i would gladly give the lithuanian minister a minute if he has something to say to us, because i think that at this stage of the debate your silence is really very heavy. you say that you have welcomed this urgent debate and that you are pleased with this resolution. i wonder, however, whether you have read this resolution and whether, at the jha council meeting yesterday, the ministers considered our proposals and wondered what announcements should be made in connection with the debate we are holding today, mr minister. i understand that you took note of the situation at your meeting and that you will take it up again at your next meeting. but we are in a situation of absolute urgency, so you are urged to take the measure of this urgency. i believe that all the speakers have said the same thing, namely that the european union has a whole range of instruments, policies and the capacity to act immediately. that is the answer we are asking you to give, mr minister. i beg you to speak and tell us what the council of ministers thinks.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on this key text, the result of a long process in this parliament, with the commission, the council and, of course, the professionals and civil society. when the committee on the internal market put me in charge of the working group on vocational qualifications at the beginning of this mandate, i could not have imagined that four years later we would have achieved this result, and i would like to thank all those who have contributed to it. this directive is a real step forward in many respects, including the creation of the european professional card, which i have been calling for for six years. the card is intended to facilitate and speed up procedures for professionals, improve exchanges between the competent national authorities and provide security for patients and clients through increased verification of qualifications and references. it is also a tool for european citizenship. we have succeeded in making it a reality, despite the frictions that have been noted in the member states. we took account of the various problems, from the deadlines, which seemed impossible to meet for the competent authorities, to the agreement of the professionals prior to the launch of a card. (the president cut the speaker off) another step forward is the recognition of paid or unpaid traineeships completed abroad as part of training in a regulated profession. it is complementary to academic exchanges such as erasmus. the objectives and content of the placement must therefore be defined in writing beforehand, which is a guarantee for the students. the question of the right to partial access to a profession, arising from case law, was a cause of great concern, particularly for the health professions. we have therefore stated that the host state assesses the possibility on a case-by-case basis and may refuse it for overriding reasons of general interest. this partial access does not apply to professions benefiting from automatic recognition or a common training framework. these common training frameworks, which i have strongly encouraged, as have many professionals, must be a real gateway to automatic recognition. the fact that there are only seven professions which are automatically recognised not only hinders mobility but also prevents the development of a common approach to the qualification content of training, a source of efficiency, competitiveness and therefore growth for europe. i believe we have arrived at a much more flexible and promising tool than the current system of common platforms. the quality of training will also be improved by continuing education and training. i am therefore pleased that we have reached agreement on the obligation for member states to ensure that all professionals benefiting from automatic recognition can update their skills through continuing professional development. we have also upgraded the common training bases, both in terms of the duration and content of the courses, but i will not go into detail here. i would like to mention the profession of midwife, however, because i am pleased that we have managed to maintain the 12-year general education for access to this training, despite the difficulties that this might pose for some states, which have taken their responsibilities. we have also improved the skills base, in particular by adding training in pharmacology. i would also like to mention nurses, of course, on which we had long and complex discussions before reaching a satisfactory compromise, thanks to a list of skills which must be acquired by registered nurses. this list is based on high and up-to-date standards and emphasises the independent practice of the profession. this is a real step forward and i would like to thank all those who have contributed to it and, of course, the trade associations. this is not trivial, for it is the most mobile profession. finally, i must mention the measures which create security for the citizens. in addition to the map and the internal market information system (imi), which should make it possible to verify the authenticity of documents as quickly as possible and to send alerts in the event of suspension of a professional's right to practise, the directive also provides for the framework for language tests. it is essential, for safety reasons, to be able to check the adequate knowledge of the language before exercise, especially for health professions. this control must be carried out under the supervision of the competent authority and be limited to an official language, which seems to me to be a fair balance to ensure the safety of patients without discriminating against professionals. i thank you for your attention and i hope that the debate will be rich and appropriate to the challenges this text poses for the future of europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, creating a genuine european labour market is the challenge. we need a genuine european labour market to make our internal market work better, to meet the aspirations of our citizens and, in particular, our younger citizens. i would remind you that, according to a recent eurobarometer survey, more than 53% of our young citizens say they are ready to go to work in another european country and that they are certainly the most affected by unemployment but also the most able and willing to move. this is the aim of the modernisation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. we wanted to make the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications simpler, more efficient, more operational and more concrete, in order to begin the creation of a genuine european labour market. the epp group has invested a lot in the parliamentary work, and we welcome the final agreement. we welcome the compromises that have been reached on certain issues and the result that is both pragmatic and realistic. moving between the two lines of mobility, the strengthening of mobility, and safety and the strengthening of protection, which we owe to our fellow citizens, our consumers, our patients, these have been the commitments of the epp group, these have been the paths taken by the epp group. i shall not go into the main innovations which have been presented in an excellent way by both our rapporteur and commissioner barnier. a simple word on the voluntary european professional card: we believed in it and we still believe in it; it is a concrete tool which we can use with our fellow citizens in the forthcoming european election campaign. i believe that this will be a significant step forward in terms of mobility and citizenship. but we also wanted to strengthen a number of principles and to frame a number of major innovations in this revised directive, such as partial access and common training frameworks. the epp group has invested a great deal of effort, including in finding a compromise for the distinguished and highly mobile profession of nursing. once again, i really believe that we have, all of us, collectively and without falling into political or political fights, done useful work.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i think that the various interventions show that we have achieved a balanced result in the service of the citizens, which is the ambition of the single market act. i have heard criticism, however, on the question of language controls. i would first like to point out that this compromise was drawn up in close cooperation with the council and, in the first place, with the delegations of the member states concerned. i would remind you that this is progress, since the examination must take place before you can practise. in addition, host member states may encourage professionals to acquire another language at a later stage, if necessary, for the exercise of their activity. it is also the responsibility of employers to ensure that patients can express themselves in their own language. the limitation of the control to one language must avoid disguised discriminatory measures. why should a dutch nurse who wishes to settle in flanders be denied the right to practise if she does not speak french? i am well aware that elections are coming up in some countries, but it would be unfortunate if this directive, which can bring a great deal to our fellow citizens, were held hostage by national attitudes and agendas, when we have all made considerable efforts to reach these compromises. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would now ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your massive support to this directive, which brings real european added value to the service of citizens, showing them that the single market is not just a free trade area but also the foundation of shared wealth and values. i call on the member states to transpose it as quickly and as effectively as possible, and i hope that a professional card will soon bring about all the benefits of this directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the casini report on the framework for the single supervisory mechanism. i am therefore asserting the right of the european parliament to legitimate control over the european central bank (ecb) in the exercise of the single supervisory mechanism for monetary stability in the union. it is essential that the ecb has the instruments to manage banking crises at the euro area level. however, it is essential that the european parliament ensures that these instruments are used in a proper manner to combat conflicts of interest and to counteract the 'selfish' attitude of certain banks.
in writing. the european central bank will now be responsible for supervising all banks in the euro area: this is the essential condition for us to achieve a genuine banking union, with a strong and stable european banking sector. this new task is not without responsibilities: the ecb will now have to answer to meps for its supervisory activities. this democratic oversight is necessary to ensure the independent exercise of these new powers in the interests of all europeans.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i support the conclusion of this interinstitutional agreement which provides for strong parliamentary scrutiny of the exercise of the ecb's supervisory powers, through periodic exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee, closed-door meetings with the committee's bureau and better access to information. i am also in favour of cooperation between the two institutions in the field of investigations, which will increase their effectiveness.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague carlo casini. this draft interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the european central bank is intended to support the procedures relating to the single supervisory mechanism. it was unanimously adopted at the conference of presidents on 12 september 2013, justifying a swift and positive plenary vote; i'm glad you did.
in writing. this agreement was to introduce significant democratic counterbalances to the ecb's conferral of additional institutional, economic and political powers, which derive from its new tasks of overseeing the financial stability of credit institutions. the agreement does not restore the balance between institutional responsibility and democratic control. on the contrary, it is entirely built around the protection of the ecb's privileged political independence and the transparency which have characterised its monetary policy choices from the outset. the confidentiality of the meetings of the supervisory board is thus at the heart of the agreement. the chairman of the supervisory board is appointed by the ecb with the agreement of the parliament, which has no power of proposal. the account is not there. the tyranny of neo-liberal dogma is being reinforced. i vote against it.
in writing. − the global financial crisis has shown that the banking sector needs to be supervised more closely. at eu level, several decisions have been taken on how to regulate the financial sector. the single supervisory mechanism, to be introduced from 2014, is a first major step towards the banking union. the european central bank will be given much greater powers to supervise the largest credit institutions in close cooperation with the national authorities (in latvia, the financial and capital market commission). the ecb will assess whether the banks' own funds, large exposures, liquidity and funding structure comply with eu requirements. the single supervisory mechanism will help restore confidence in the european financial sector and make banks safer. the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the ecb provides for the exchange of information between the two institutions in the field of banking supervision. it will help us to learn about the problems that are arising in time, which is why i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. the european parliament delivered its opinion on 9 october 2013 on an agreement on the 'democratic control' of the ecb. you have to be brave. in fact, it is an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the ecb. it could have been hoped that this agreement would at least strengthen the political control of the european central bank by the european parliament. this is a missed opportunity. the agreement merely provides for periodic exchanges of views with the committee responsible in the european parliament and for closed-door meetings with the bureau of the committee. we can feel the desire for transparency... and the european parliament will be able to control the selection procedure for the appointment of the chairman of the supervisory board. in other words, nothing or almost nothing changes. so i voted against this tasteless agreement.
in writing. in the interests of good administration of the european parliament, i voted in favour of this decision which organises the various interparliamentary delegations responsible for relations between the european union and the non-eu countries which are its partners.
in writing. i supported this proposal for a decision which had been approved by the conference of presidents. this text is the result of the accession of croatia to the european union (on 1 july 2013). it was therefore essential to redefine the size of the european parliament delegations in order to be able to accommodate croatian meps. in parallel, it was necessary to abolish the delegation to the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee and to change the composition of the other delegations. i am glad that this motion for a resolution was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. the considerable resources devoted to all these interparliamentary activities are inversely proportional to the real powers of parliament, if only to control the international action of the commission and the council. the lack of transparency in the negotiation of the transatlantic agreement is a perfect illustration of this. we can have many bodies, meetings and resolutions, but without a real change in the organization of powers in the treaties, all this has no meaning for the citizens. i'm not going to. this is really pointless, and it's not useful.
in writing. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution refusing to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors found shortcomings, in particular as regards the award of contracts and full respect for the spirit and principles of the financial regulation.
in writing. the council and the european council must make concrete efforts to ensure the transparency of their budgets, so that the european parliament can ensure democratic control. i voted in favour of this text, which recalls our demands that europeans be able to assess in all transparency the proper management of public money by the european institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the refusal of discharge for 2011. in order to explain my vote, i would like to recall that on 17 april the european parliament decided to postpone the discharge to the council and the european council for the implementation of the 2011 budget. i have decided to support this second report which suggests that progress should be made towards greater transparency in the discharge process. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has been able to make its voice heard by voting against the discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of refusing to grant the council discharge for the 2011 financial year, as the european parliament did not obtain from the council sufficient information to fulfil its supervisory role as defined by the treaties as the budgetary authority and therefore to grant the council discharge. to unblock this situation, progress could be made by establishing a list of documents to be exchanged between the two institutions.
in writing. this report is emblematic of the permanent denial of democracy in the functioning of the institutions of the european union. while the parliament has only limited budgetary powers under the treaties, its few budgetary powers are regularly trampled on by the council and the commission, in particular its power to give them discharge for management. the council's budget has been implemented in a highly opaque manner for several years, and parliament has already refused to grant it discharge for the financial years 2009 and 2010. the council of ministers' budget is not the same as the european council's budget, and the council of ministers' budget is not the same as the european council's budget. the report therefore rightly recommends that parliament again refuse to give the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2011 budget. i therefore vote in favour of this rejection.
in writing. prevention is always better than cure! this is the case in many areas, including the environment: environmental impact studies are a very good thing, because they make it possible to predict the environmental consequences of an investment, and thus both protect our environment and improve the use of funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. however, it is also a question of putting the cursor of the obligations to be respected in the right place. we must be fully aware that additional obligations can also impede investment, growth and employment. the epp group has rejected all unnecessary, ineffective or redundant measures so that this text remains an effective tool for improving projects with an environmental impact. the question of shale gas remains. while the european commission is about to present legislative proposals to provide this framework, i do not see why we should create duplicates through this text. yes to a legislative framework but no to double legislation!
in writing. in updating the directive on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects, the european parliament added shale gas exploration and extraction projects using hydraulic fracturing to the list of projects requiring an impact assessment. i am very pleased with this sensible initiative. this addition was urgently needed, as our assembly had repeatedly requested in the past. impact studies have been part of the landscape for over 20 years. they concern all large-scale projects, whether public or private. in view of the potential environmental and public health hazards of shale gas (and coal gas) exploration and extraction projects using hydraulic fracturing, it seems quite obvious that an environmental impact assessment should be carried out beforehand. hydraulic fracturing, the only technique currently operational, does indeed pose environmental and public health problems (pollution of groundwater, use of toxic products, etc.) which must be assessed and brought to the attention of the public before any exploration and/or extraction. the fact that a prior inquiry is now required is therefore shared at european level: it is the minimum.
in writing. the adoption of this report confirms europe's ambition for environmental safety. i am particularly pleased with the victory of the socialist group, which has obtained the mandatory and direct evaluation of shale gas projects, which will now be subject to the strictest possible supervision.
in writing. thanks to this text, we will now take the environment into account more closely when implementing public or private projects that may have an impact on it. but we must be careful that these rules, while better for the environment, do not unnecessarily burden our businesses.
in writing. this report sets out a systematic assessment of the environmental, health and climate impact of public and private projects. however, the harmonisation and standardisation of procedures for assessing the environmental impact of certain infrastructures adds an excessive administrative burden. the anti-carbon obsession is turning all european projects - some of which, like this one, are well-intentioned - into gas factories. the implementation of the environmental regulations decided by brussels will never lead to an improvement in the competitiveness of french and european companies and industries. that is why we are sceptical about this new proposal.
in writing. i voted against this report because it is the very symbol of technocracy and the administrative burdens that our citizens and our businesses can no longer bear. the commission will be proposing a new framework for the development of the european union's energy policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty on european union and the treaty on european union. in the midst of the economic crisis, is it really time to bury our companies, even the smallest of them, under mountains of bureaucracy? i regret that the proposals that have been made to try to really simplify this legislation and to give visibility to businesses have not been adopted. this text is unclear, very complex and technocratic and threatens to make our citizens, our smes and our local elected representatives prisoners of a veritable administrative prison.
in writing. the issue of the effects of shale gas on the environment is a major concern of our citizens. that is why i supported the inclusion of shale gas and unconventional gas projects in annex i to the directive, in the category of exploration projects which are subject to mandatory and direct assessment, not only for their exploitation but also in the exploration and evaluation phases. special measures should also be adopted to prevent any conflict of interest and to ensure that the public is informed and consulted on the progress of certain public and private environmental projects.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague andrea zanoni, which imposes disproportionate and costly obligations on smes, particularly when it comes to the exploitation of energy sources, since the mere assessment of a reserve will involve lengthy and costly procedures, irrespective of whether the site concerned is subsequently exploited or not. these proposals will have a negative impact on european businesses, affecting both employment and the economic competitiveness of the european union. the report was adopted by 332 votes to 311 with 14 abstentions. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. - i voted against this report which provides for the implementation and strengthening of the via directive, after assessing the environmental impact of certain public and private projects. i consider that the general approach, while taking into account the need to pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy on the reduction of the environmental impact of public and/or private infrastructure and buildings, does not, however, take due account of the costs of implementing those directives and the operational constraints they would entail. my vote against is therefore an invitation to review the approach to the subject, seeking to combine environmental sustainability with business competitiveness.
in writing. certain public and private projects, such as the construction of motorways or mining sites, must be subject to an environmental impact assessment (eia) in order to be authorised by the member states. the revision of the directive on such impact assessments aims to simplify procedures and take account of new environmental factors. an eia will be mandatory for the exploration and extraction of shale gas and for construction and demolition works. we must nevertheless be careful not to make these procedures too burdensome, especially for smes, artisans and farmers. that is why i voted against their application in the event of 'loss of agricultural and forestry areas' with a majority of meps. i regret that these studies have instead been made compulsory for wild fisheries. i voted in favour of this text because, despite its imperfections, it improves and simplifies the regulations on environmental impact assessment. for example, member states will establish a 'one-stop shop' to coordinate eias with other mandatory assessments such as water quality or natural habitat assessments.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report on the legal requirements for environmental impact assessment (eia) of public or private projects on the environment because it considerably strengthens the right to public consultation, improves the ex post monitoring of projects with adverse effects on the environment, from the selection and implementation phase of a project. i also support, as requested in parliament's november 2012 resolution on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil shale extraction, the inclusion of these activities in annex i of the directive, so that exploration projects for so-called unconventional hydrocarbons are systematically and compulsorily subject to an eia. an eia will help the workers concerned and the public to have control over the information acquired by local authorities on the impact of public and private projects.
in writing. the text seeks to strengthen the obligations to assess the environmental impact of certain projects. it's about time! this impact assessment directive had not been revised since 1985. yet attention to environmental issues has increased considerably and the negative effects of indifference are now evident. the report proposes marginal improvements in terms of transparency. the same applies to public participation in decision-making and the limitation of conflicts of interest. the report will make the exploitation of shale gas more binding. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. he's whining so he doesn't have to pay exorbitant fees. it is a liberal and accountable approach to the ecological challenge. it will not make it possible to radically reorient production and equipment projects in an ecological direction. i abstain on this text in order not to prevent any small step forward in terms of transparency vis-à-vis the lobbies, even though this report is far removed from the ecological planning that is required today in the face of the widespread destruction of the human ecosystem.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which revises the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive. the main purpose of this directive is to define the criteria necessary before a project, whether public or private, can be validated by the national authorities. the legislation in force covers natural gas projects from a certain daily flow. as the yields of shale gas drilling are often below this flow rate, these operations are not systematically subject to an impact assessment. we have worked to make it mandatory for any amount of unconventional oil extracted, and from the exploration phase if fracking is envisaged. we are also proposing measures to ensure that citizens are better informed and consulted on these projects. after a postponement in the last plenary sessions, we should welcome this result, which shows our determination to give priority to environmental protection. i see it as an invitation to give priority to alternative solutions to fossil fuels, which have a more positive environmental impact.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the 'evaluation of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment'. the report calls on the competent authorities of the member states to assess the environmental impact of a public or private project before it is implemented. in this report i also stressed that the exploitation of shale gas by hydraulic fracturing should also be the subject of an environmental impact assessment, in accordance with the precautionary principle.
in writing. on 9 october, the european parliament adopted a draft directive which has received a lot of attention from large companies and environmental ngos: the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive. this text requires that major public and private projects (construction of bridges, ports, motorways, waste dumps, intensive poultry or pig farming, etc.) should be subject to environmental impact studies before they are carried out. the activities of exploration and extraction of shale gas are particularly affected by these regulations. this is welcome, given the disastrous results in the united states, and also because the ban on them is not regulated at eu level. this report shall also provide for consultations with the populations concerned by the projects, including in the context of transnational projects; however, this is only possible if the community provisions on information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters (aarhus convention) are respected. i voted for this directive, which is designed to ensure that environmental issues are better taken into account in public policy and can facilitate citizen awareness.
in writing. before determining whether the extraction of an oil or gas presents environmental risks, it is also necessary to know whether the deposit has economic potential. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore wanted this house to make it compulsory to carry out an impact assessment between the exploration phase and the decision to extract. unfortunately, this nuance was rejected by nine votes to one. it seemed to me, however, essential, since the original aim of the legislative proposal was to lighten and simplify the administrative burden on project promoters, while ensuring strict respect for environmental protection. since our assembly has abandoned the first objective in favour of the second, i have decided to vote against this text because i refuse to support an unbalanced legal framework which provides no certainty and creates obstacles to industrial activity, at the risk of deteriorating employment in this sector and discouraging investment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which aligns the existing legal framework with the new legislative framework and the lisbon treaty. it reviews in particular the environmental and safety requirements for pleasure craft and motorised watercraft.
in writing. the objective of this text is to limit emissions from pleasure boats and motorised watercraft, taking genuine account of the interests of both pleasure boaters and companies in the boat and engine manufacturing sector. i think that this text has achieved that objective in a balanced way.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which modernises the existing eu rules on safety and environmental protection for boats for private use, i.e. recreational, sport and training activities. i am in favour of strengthening the requirements to be met by the vessels concerned, particularly in terms of stability and buoyancy, as well as gas and noise emissions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague malcolm harbour which proposes balanced solutions to harmonise safety and environmental requirements for vessels ranging from sea scooters to yachts. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr harbour's report to harmonize the legislation in force on pleasure craft and watercraft designed for use at sea and in inland waters, with the exception of craft designed and used for the commercial carriage of passengers. the amendments include reductions in noise and exhaust emissions, the introduction of more flexible conformity assessment procedures and alignment with horizontal standards on accreditation and ce marking.
in writing. the new rules adopted by the european parliament on pleasure boats and motorised watercraft are designed to make outboard engines safer in order to reduce the risk of loss of control and falling of the boat. the engines will now have to be equipped with an emergency stop system. the directive also provides for measures to reduce gas emissions by 20%. these rules apply to vessels between 2.5 and 24 metres in length such as motorboats, sailing yachts and sea scooters. we have also asked the european commission to consider further harmonisation of boat licences. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it improves the safety of motor boats and helps to reduce air and noise pollution, while giving companies enough time to adapt their products. the new rules will apply to all motor manufacturers, including those in the uk, and will be extended to small and medium-sized companies with engines of 15 kw or less.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on pleasure craft and motorised watercraft which harmonises safety and environmental performance requirements for boats from 2.5 to 24 metres. the new directive gives industry three years to meet the new co2 emission limits. a new classification of boat design categories will also come into force with this text.
in writing. this report significantly improves the wording of the current regulation by removing the shells and sources of confusion. it adapts legislation on engine noise and co2 emissions to hybrid propulsion and integrates the use of biofuels. however, the change in ship design categories will allow any pleasure craft now allowed to sail close to shore to move without limitation of distance from a shelter. this anglo-saxon concept of freedom and responsibility over positive law is dangerous. i am voting against because of the danger this provision poses to an uninformed public.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this directive, which will modernise existing european legislation on pleasure boats, from the small outboard motor inflatable boat used for fishing to the large motor yacht. the directive does not apply to vessels designed and used for the commercial carriage of passengers. the text includes an environmental component, with a new measure making it compulsory to install tanks on vessels equipped with toilets to help protect the marine environment, as well as a stricter limit on greenhouse gas emissions, which takes account of developments in engine technology. however, a transitional period of three years is being put in place to take account of the situation of producers, who are mostly smes, and this is to be welcomed. the directive also takes account of consumer interests by requiring boat manufacturers to provide certain safety information at the time of purchase, by creating a legal basis for the withdrawal of dangerous boats from the market, and by strengthening controls on the compliance of boats with european legislation.
in writing. i supported this text on the recognition of vocational qualifications in europe. the modernisation of this directive is a step forward for european citizens who see the conditions for intra-european mobility facilitated and especially for many regulated professions.
in writing. by endorsing the agreement reached between the council and parliament on the revision of the vocational qualifications directive, we want to both simplify and improve the recognition of vocational qualifications in the eu in order to develop the voluntary mobility of europeans. one of the advances will be the professional card. in the original 2005 directive, such a possibility already existed, but it was never implemented. today we want to see this professional card, in the form of an electronic certificate, set up on a voluntary basis. this card, which has already been tested in pilot projects in certain occupations, is intended to be used more generally as a measure of simplification and security. other measures to improve cooperation and mobility of professionals across the eu include an alert mechanism for health and education professionals who are banned from working in a member state, for example, or the creation of common training frameworks, which appear to be essential for a better circulation of skills and qualifications.
in writing. i voted in favour of the vergnaud report which envisages the creation of a european professional passport, through enhanced administrative cooperation between the member states of the union. by allowing greater professional mobility in europe, free movement is no longer the privilege of capital, goods and certain workers, but of skilled workers. i am pleased that vocational qualifications are being recognised at european level. this will enable young graduates and those in employment to practise in the desired member state, while responding to the growing shortages of skilled labour in the union.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which will significantly improve the free movement of persons in the internal market. the measures envisaged make significant progress in the recognition of qualifications, while generally improving the level of qualifications. this will not only improve the quality of services provided but also the confidence of clients and patients. i particularly welcome the introduction of the european professional card, which will bring about a european union at the service of workers for tens of thousands of professionals.
in writing. professional mobility is one of the keys to recovery for our economies, bringing competitiveness and employment. this text will help us to clarify and simplify the system for the recognition of professional qualifications, so that this fundamental right of europeans, the single market, can really come into being. the text also creates a card which will simplify the settlement of professionals in another member state by facilitating the recognition of their qualifications, while guaranteeing the protection of consumers and europeans.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because professional mobility is a key element for competitiveness and employment in europe, and is an integral part of the 2020 strategy and the single market act. it seems to me essential to encourage this phenomenon by the recognition of professional qualifications. i am particularly in favour of the introduction of a european professional card, which aims to simplify procedures for professionals and for the competent authorities, while ensuring a high level of reliability of the information transmitted and improved communication between member states. this will help to build mutual trust. this text could then facilitate the mobility of workers, particularly in crossborder regions such as mine.
in writing. this overhaul of the system is intended to demonstrate to the member states that european legislation brings added value to the daily lives of their citizens. but the opposite is happening here. the commission is dealing with a subject which still falls within the competence of the member states under the heading of freedom of movement and establishment. this proposal is a further clear breach of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the liberal professions are not to the liking of this commission which wants to destroy their particularities on the altar of freedom of movement and establishment, thereby denying cultural and professional traditions. we have known for a long time that the commission is interested in the creation of a nomad, rootless man who has become a mere consumer. this text, which is encouraging competition between workers in the member states, is a further demonstration of this.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive, which will simplify professional mobility through the introduction of the european professional card. this system will greatly facilitate the recognition process, since the professionals concerned will be able, at no additional cost, to entrust their qualifications recognition files directly to their home member state. similarly, the introduction of a new automatic recognition system based on common training principles and the recognition of vocational training courses will also facilitate worker mobility. finally, we have obtained an important guarantee for the patients. the directive provides that the competent authorities of a member state are required to alert, within three days, the authorities of all the other member states if a health professional or a professional in the field of education of minors and early childhood is prohibited from practising by a public authority or a court.
in writing. i gave my full support to this report and congratulate my colleague bernadette vergnaud on her commitment to achieving a result that was unthinkable a few years ago, given the strong hostility of the member states to this project. this text shows how much europe can do for our citizens. the professional card will facilitate the procedures for professionals, improve exchanges between competent national authorities and reassure patients and customers. i particularly welcome the introduction of the recognition of paid and unpaid traineeships abroad as part of training in a regulated profession. this text will avoid too great differences in qualifications and ensure that the professional has a qualification to practise throughout europe. in particular, on the question of midwives, the changeover to a bachelor's degree level is maintained for access to the profession, and this despite strong opposition from germany, which is a great step forward.
in writing. good news for all professionals who want to work abroad: parliament has approved the modernisation of the legislation on the recognition of professional qualifications, which was an administrative headache of 15 directives, a real headache. the main innovation of this new legislation, which covers 800 professions, is the creation of a european professional card in the form of an electronic certificate which will promote the mobility of workers under facilitated conditions. but while bold, this legislation is not naive. healthcare professionals and those involved in the education of minors, for example, who have been convicted by a public authority or a court in their country and are prohibited from practising will be closely monitored. the competent authorities of the country of origin will be required to alert all other member states within three days. with this new text we are supporting the measures to promote employment and combat youth unemployment.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague bernadette vergnaud. this report concerns the modernisation of directive 2005/36/ec on the recognition of professional qualifications. the modernisation of the directive will allow the creation of a european professional card, the introduction of an alert mechanism for health professionals with automatic recognition, the establishment of common training frameworks and common training tests, and better access to information on the recognition of professional qualifications. the report was adopted by 596 votes in favour, 37 against and 30 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the recognition of professional qualifications within the internal market of the european union is an essential condition for promoting professional mobility between member states, which today affects only 4% of the working population. while almost a quarter of young people in the euro area are unemployed (24 per cent in july 2013), unemployment rates vary considerably between countries, for example 62.9 per cent in greece and 7.7 per cent in germany. the european parliament has therefore introduced new measures to facilitate the mobility of workers. for example, we have created a european professional card, an electronic certificate which will simplify the recognition of qualifications. we have also set up common training frameworks, which will make it possible to extend the automatic recognition mechanism to new professions. finally, we have improved citizens' access to information on the recognition of professional qualifications. i am convinced that these measures will contribute to economic recovery and to reducing unemployment in the european union, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, the provisions of which modernise the existing 2005 directive. the aim of this long-term work is to help to revive growth in europe through greater mobility of workers between member states. the introduction of a european professional card is one of the key measures which will enable professionals to present an electronic certificate in order to establish themselves in another member state. a tacit authorization is also introduced in the event of inaction by the host member state, which will speed up the recognition process. the member states will also be required to inform the competent authorities of all member states within three days if a health professional or a professional in the education of minors and young children is prohibited from practising. this is an important step forward for the protection of european patients and children and for cooperation between member states. there are about 800 regulated professions in the union, and seven of them are automatically recognised in all member states. finally, the minimum training requirements for doctors, dentists, pharmacists, nurses, midwives, veterinarians and architects have been updated.
in writing. the report validates the commission's core proposal. the aim is to create a european professional card. it will be issued by the home country and will certify that a worker has the qualifications required to practise a regulated profession (nursing, medicine, architecture, etc.) in another eu country. until now, the authorities of the host country have been responsible for this validation. they'll just record it. the report also makes positive changes to the commission's proposal (compulsory continuing training, mastery of the language of the host country). short-sighted motive and method. the common repository is essential. this project is unacceptable to me. facilitating the automatic recognition of qualifications between countries is not the best solution. on the contrary, common european standards must be developed. under the guise of professional mobility, this european professional card is intended to facilitate the plundering of the skilled labour force of the poorest countries by the richest, as germany has done. finally, facilitating labour mobility in the eu without ending the posting system can only exacerbate social dumping. i vote against it.
in writing. today, only 2% of european citizens live and work in a country other than their own, while surveys show that more than a third of europeans are considering working abroad. how do we explain this discrepancy? there are still many obstacles to mobility. one of them is the lack of recognition of professional qualifications. for some regulated professions, it takes months before the host state agrees to recognise a worker's qualifications. the procedures are complex, bureaucratic, the information is fragmented, the minimum requirements are outdated... the new directive is a big step forward and i want to welcome the work of michel barnier, elisabeth vergnaud and my colleague, constance le grip , which will simplify the rules, clarify the minimum requirements, include traineeships in professional experience and create a european recognition card. i also welcome the compromise for the nursing profession, which will preserve the quality of training and care. this text is a concrete response to the current unemployment of 5 million young people in europe. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the amendment of the 2005 directive had become necessary in view of the rapid and profound changes that the european labour market has undergone in recent years. thanks to the impetus given by commissioner barnier, who made it a priority of his mandate, citizens will now have a european professional card that will facilitate their procedures in all eu countries. we have taken particular account of specific sectors such as health, particularly nursing, and legal, such as notaries. moreover, despite the reluctance of the member states meeting in council, my group has been in the forefront of the fight to ensure that the inclusion of paid and unpaid traineeships in the scope of the directive is maintained. this is a realistic approach, as many students are now taking the opportunity of their compulsory postgraduate traineeship to do so in another eu country.
in writing. free movement is one of the pillars on which our european citizenship is based. it is a fundamental right enshrined in our treaties. however, this is de facto limited by the complexity of the rules governing the recognition of professional qualifications between member states. unfortunately, this reduces the opportunities for citizens to practise their profession in a member state other than their own. while the financial crisis has hit our people hard, making access to the labour market more difficult, professional mobility is a key element for competitiveness and employment in europe. it also represents a major challenge to the effectiveness of the single market since it requires, among other things, the approximation of the member states' legislation in the field of vocational training. this is underlined in the excellent report by my colleague bernadette vergnaud. it is taking an innovative approach by introducing a series of ambitious measures such as the european professional card, the principle of partial access and the recognition of traineeships completed abroad in the context of training in a regulated profession. this is a major step forward, which complements academic exchanges such as erasmus.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today by a very large majority (596 votes in favour, 37 against and 31 abstentions) my report on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. this directive, identified as one of the 12 pillars of growth, must now be transposed in the member states. it brings a number of significant advances to facilitate the mobility of professionals in europe, while ensuring a high level of quality of services, with more confidence and protection for clients and patients, and increased cooperation between member states. this directive is a key text of the single market act. it aims to reorient the internal market to the benefit of citizens and contains many innovations: the introduction of a european professional card, a real tool for citizenship, which will facilitate administrative procedures by providing security for professionals and their clients, a major upgrade of common training bases, recognition and supervision of traineeships carried out abroad, etc. i am pleased to see this excellent result after more than four years of work. this directive will bring real european added value and demonstrate that europe can be dynamic, protective, at the service of citizens and is not only a free trade area but also the foundation of shared wealth and values.
in writing. i supported this proposal for a directive which is a major step forward in strengthening the internal market. until now, the recognition of professional qualifications has faced a number of obstacles which have impeded professional mobility within the union, hampered wealth creation and therefore weighed on growth. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. it is also a major step forward in facilitating student placements abroad, which i strongly support, because it is an opportunity for our young people to enrich their curriculum and acquire the mastery of other languages, which is indispensable in today's labour market. i particularly welcome the explicit exclusion of notaries from the scope of this directive, for which i have campaigned very strongly, because notaries in france have the particularity that they are civil servants and therefore depositaries of public authority. to liberalize access to their profession for anyone else would have undermined the uniqueness of the french notaries, to whom we are attached.
in writing. the conclusion of this agreement with armenia, which i voted for, will facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas. it provides in particular for simplified criteria for the issuing of multiple-entry visas and the abolition of visa processing fees for certain categories of persons.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bauer report on the introduction of visa-free travel for armenian citizens in the european union and vice versa. the report also provides for simplified criteria such as the issuing of multiple-entry visas and the abolition of visa processing fees for certain categories of persons, thus bringing european citizens closer to armenian citizens.
in writing. i believe it is particularly important to support visa liberalisation with armenia, a country with which europe has historically had very special links. the recent implementation of the european project 'targeted initiative for armenia' in the framework of the mobility partnership, aimed at strengthening the capacity of the armenian authorities to better manage their migration, in particular the economic and social reintegration of its migrants, is a step in the right direction. as regards the readmission agreement, which is inseparable from the visa facilitation agreement, its implementation should guarantee third-country nationals who so wish the possibility to apply for international protection in compliance with the principle of non-refoulement and in accordance with the international obligations of the member states. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague edit bauer on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas, which provides for simplified criteria or the abolition of processing fees for certain categories of persons. i'm glad you did.
in writing. − by voting in favour, i expressed my willingness to conclude the visa facilitation agreement signed on 17 december 2012. the simplification of visa issuance will improve cooperation between the eu and armenia, allowing citizens to move more easily. the new rules will also make the procedures quicker, less burdensome and bureaucratic, while respecting the security and legality of the states.
in writing. while expressing reservations about the use of increasingly widespread biometric passports, i am voting in favour of the eu-armenia visa facilitation agreement because it promotes freedom of movement, which is one of the eu's fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and armenia to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas. whether it is a single-entry visa or a multiple-entry visa, it provides for a simplification of the documents required to justify the purpose of the journey for certain categories of persons. it also establishes that the fee charged for the processing of visa applications of armenian citizens is fixed at € 35, with a possible exemption from this visa requirement for certain categories of persons.
in writing. this text facilitates the free movement of individuals, whereas all too often the texts submitted to us in this chamber concern only the liberalization of finance. the proposed relaxation of visa procedures strengthens trade between the peoples concerned while guaranteeing the sovereignty of the states. that is why i am voting for this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement which aims to facilitate the issuing of visas between armenian and european citizens. such agreements facilitate trade between peoples. they also reduce the time and costs of preparing travel between the european union and the third states concerned. i regret, however, that this agreement could only be concluded in exchange for the conclusion of a readmission agreement, the content of which is known and the consequences for the rights of migrants, especially as this visa liberalisation remains quite hypothetical and subject to examination on a case-by-case basis. i fear that it is a decoy, unlike the policy of turning back illegal immigrants. the european union must choose between a fortress europe and increased trade between peoples. at least i'm making it clear.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas to armenian citizens, as this initiative contributes to the european strategy for the development of the tourism sector. the facilitation of multiple-entry visas provided for in this agreement will, in particular, stimulate family and business tourism within the eu and in france, where the armenian community is strong. this form of tourism is a significant source of jobs and growth for the member states and also provides an opportunity for armenians eager to visit the eu or to travel there for business. the eu-armenia partnership also requires that armenia actively prevent all forms of illegal immigration to the eu, and our assembly has notably adopted, alongside this agreement on visas, an agreement on the readmission of persons in an irregular situation. this double agreement must be the hallmark of eu-armenia relations. a giving relationship, a relationship that serves us mutually and lastingly!
in writing. this agreement with armenia deals with the readmission by armenia of its own nationals, including former nationals, as well as third-country nationals and stateless persons. i voted in favour of this agreement so that armenia has obligations in this area.
in writing. as visa issuance cannot be effective without a readmission agreement in force, i naturally supported the bauer report on the readmission of irregular residents under the visa facilitation agreement between the european union and armenia, which i fully supported.
in writing. i believe it is particularly important to support visa liberalisation with armenia, a country with which europe has historically had very special links. the recent implementation of the european project 'targeted initiative for armenia' in the framework of the mobility partnership, aimed at strengthening the capacity of the armenian authorities to better manage their migration, in particular the economic and social reintegration of their migrants, is a step in the right direction. the readmission agreement, which is inseparable from the visa facilitation agreement, should be implemented in such a way as to ensure that third-country nationals who so wish have the possibility to apply for international protection, in compliance with the principle of non-refoulement and in accordance with the international obligations of the member states. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague edit bauer which deals with readmission obligations by armenia for its own nationals, including former nationals, as well as third country nationals and stateless persons. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i will vote against this agreement which defines the obligations and procedures between armenia and the member states concerning the return of persons staying illegally. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to vote is guaranteed. i consider all readmission procedures unacceptable as long as they are contrary to the rights of migrants, refugees and stateless persons and are not accompanied by measures to monitor and control respect for human rights. any readmission procedure should be carried out in full respect of the fundamental rights of persons in their territory, ensuring their integrity and protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on an agreement between the european union and armenia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation which should be applied in a manner that ensures respect for human rights and the obligations and responsibilities of the requested and the requesting states under the national instruments applicable to them. while the requesting state must give preference to voluntary return over forced return, the requested state must, more specifically, ensure the protection of persons readmitted to its territory in accordance with those national instruments. in this context, the readmission agreement addresses the readmission obligations of armenia for its own nationals, including former nationals who have renounced their nationality without acquiring the nationality of another state, as well as third-country nationals.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to deprive irregular migrants of their rights by applying simplified and expeditious procedures for returning them to their country of origin. the obligation to readmit nationals also covers family members, i.e. spouse and minor unmarried children. i vote against this agreement which denies basic human rights.
in writing. the european union is increasingly signing readmission agreements with third countries to return men and women who have entered the territory illegally. these agreements are an essential instrument of the eu's return policy. they are symptomatic of the outsourcing of migration controls to third countries. the conclusion of such agreements has become the bargaining chip for the signature of association or visa liberalisation agreements with the same third countries. the explanatory memorandum of the report endorsing the signing of the readmission agreement states it clearly: the aim is to facilitate returns and to "prevent and control illegal migration flows". it also dares to refer to the external action of the european union and the principles which led to its creation and thus to "the expansion of the area of democracy, the rule of law and good governance". i voted against this readmission agreement between the eu and armenia because it is part of the repressive approach of european migration policy which considers illegal immigration as a threat to its security, that of fortress europe which has again caused several hundred victims in lampedusa.
in writing. i thought it was essential that the health claim on carbohydrate effects should be used in a way that avoids any abuse and in particular that very sweet products should claim any benefit for consumers. beyond the legal considerations raised by my colleague renate sommer, the political imperatives of public health and the fight against obesity require us to provide a strict framework for this claim. i therefore supported the european commission and voted against this draft parliamentary objection.
in writing. when we shop at the supermarket, we need to know that what is written on the package is true. it is to avoid claims which are sometimes misleading, or at least which risk misleading the consumer, that we have voted today. the claim that carbohydrates contribute to proper brain functioning is true, but at a time when we are faced with an increasing risk of obesity, particularly among young people, it is good to frame such claims and to remind that sugar consumption also carries risks, in order to avoid any ambiguity.
in writing. the motion for a resolution tabled opposes an amendment of regulation (eu) no 432/2012 by the commission. in fact, it is about allowing advertising for alleged 'healthy' food. the consumer should not be misled any further by the so-called health benefits. should we expect to find the word "sanitary" on the chlorinated chicken that we are about to serve? i too object to this misleading amendment. i vote for the resolution that wants to prevent it. i regret that under the treaties parliament is reduced to a witness's posture, which is further proof that this parliament has no real legislative power.
in writing. by voting on this resolution, the european parliament adopted a proposal from the european commission to regulate the health claims of certain products containing carbohydrates, in particular for products with a high sugar content. this means better regulating the formulas used in food labelling that claim health benefits, and in particular avoiding those that are for example difficult to understand or misleading (such as the attribution of medicinal benefits that are not scientifically proven) or encourage excessive consumption by claiming or suggesting that a balanced diet does not provide all the necessary nutrients. in view of the dietary advice on the recommended daily intake of sugar and in refusing to accept the pressure from industry to postpone the vote on this text, i did not consider it appropriate to relax the conditions required in this area. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. on 25 september the environment committee voted a resolution objecting to the draft commission regulation on the visual inspection of pigmeat in slaughterhouses. this position is surprising to say the least. the commission's draft implementing text provides for the modernisation of inspection practices at the slaughterhouse by extending the use of visual inspection. it aims primarily to adapt the inspection procedures to the risks identified in the pig sector, taking into account the progress made in recent years in the health status of pig holdings. the committee on the environment opposes this positive development, which has been recognised by the european food safety authority and is supported by an overwhelming majority of member states within the standing committee on the food chain and animal health of the union. the draft does not call into question animal health safety or animal inspection procedures. it provides that inspections are always to be carried out by official veterinarians at the control posts along the slaughter chain. for all these reasons i voted against the resolution of the committee on the environment.
in writing. for the epp group, it is quite clear that food security is our one and only objective. the rules should only be changed if we are sure that such a change will improve consumer protection. however, in negotiations with the european commission, we have managed to improve the measure proposed by the european executive, in particular by placing veterinary checks at the heart of the system for checking the health of animals in pig slaughterhouses. we naturally trust the scientific opinion expressed by the european food safety authority (efsa) and have decided to support the european commission and the member states and therefore reject this draft parliamentary objection.
in writing. the hygiene of pig meat is a major concern of europeans. it is good that this text aims to modernise slaughterhouse inspection practices by taking better account of the risks specific to the pig sector.
in writing. like the majority of meps, i rejected a veto resolution by the european parliament's committee on food safety, which opposed the simplification of health checks on pigmeat. pork meat can now be declared fit for human consumption by official veterinarians after a simple visual inspection, without palpation or systematic incision. i voted against this resolution because visual inspections reduce the risk of contamination from incisions and simplify the inspection procedures. i have nevertheless asked my colleagues in parliament for additional guarantees in the area of food safety. at the slightest doubt about the health of the animal, veterinarians should carry out physical checks on pig carcases in order to avoid any risk to public health, animal health or animal welfare.
in writing. the motion for a resolution tabled opposes an amendment by the commission to the regulation on compulsory veterinary measures in pig slaughterhouses. the commission is seeking to speed up the health control procedures to allow for an increase in the slaughter rates (500 pigs are slaughtered per hour in large slaughterhouses). the veterinary control protocols are changed: visual inspection only without incision or palpation, which leads to a reduced probability of detecting abnormalities. the commission proposal seems to be the direct work of the pig lobbies whose slaughter rate is limited by the remaining health measures. i too am opposed to these amendments which put the health of citizens at risk for ever greater profits. and i vote for the resolution that seeks to prevent them.
in writing. the european parliament rejected this resolution rejecting the european commission's proposal on the control of foodstuffs and products of animal origin. this is to reduce the intensity of controls in certain slaughterhouses and cutting plants concerning hygiene, animal welfare and consumer health. such a proposal carries many risks, both to human health (meat unfit for human consumption may enter the food chain) and to animal welfare (greater difficulties in detecting breaches of regulations). veterinarians in several member states have expressed concern that the proposal could be adopted, as they fear that they would no longer be able to carry out their duties properly. even if the horse meat scandal is not over, such a proposal is incomprehensible. i therefore voted in favour of a rejection that favours health aspects in a sensitive area and i regret that the majority of the european parliament has chosen the opposite.
in writing. in order to secure our trade relations with china, i voted in favour of this resolution which respects some of our french demands. this text allows the exclusion of audiovisual and cultural services from the scope of these trade agreements.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution on an investment agreement which had similar problems to the trade agreement with the united states. in order to protect europe's cultural diversity, i voted in favour of a provision excluding audiovisual and cultural services from the scope of this investment agreement. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. meps adopted a strong position in a resolution on a bilateral eu-china investment agreement. i voted in favour of this text because china represents a huge potential market for french and european companies. this agreement should stimulate european investment in china while ensuring greater security for investors. nevertheless, i have assured myself, with a majority of members, that this agreement will be balanced, and in particular that beijing will agree to include market access for our companies before negotiations are opened. the fact is that european companies' investments in china are currently subject to discriminatory measures, such as the obligation to set up joint ventures with chinese firms, which forces our companies to transfer strategic technologies to their chinese partners. we have also excluded cultural and audiovisual services from the negotiations in order to protect europe's cultural heritage. we have also called for measures to protect the intellectual property rights and public services of the european union. finally, we have demanded guarantees in terms of social standards and refused to invest in goods that are manufactured in forced labour camps.
in writing. this text proposes a bilateral investment agreement between china and the eu with the aim of opening markets, further liberalizing the chinese market for access by european companies, and harmonising access for all european companies. this agreement does have some social or environmental problems and even excludes the cultural sphere. nevertheless, it remains a bilateral investment agreement that severely restricts public investment. it also advocates investor-state arbitration tribunals. a foreshadowing of the trade agreement with the united states? rather than strengthening competition and free trade, it is an opportunity for solidarity and concerted protectionism. i am voting against this investment agreement which is aimed solely at the interests of firms at the expense of the people. and i vote against the incredible missed opportunity to build a true cooperative partnership.
in writing. chinese companies are showing increasing interest in investing in the european market, and china's trade surplus with the eu has increased significantly in recent years eur 146 billion in 2012. it is in this context that negotiations for a bilateral eu-china investment agreement will begin shortly. we know that european companies' investments in china are currently subject to discriminatory measures. these include mandatory transfers of strategic technologies to their chinese partners. i believe it is fundamental that in these negotiations the eu requires china to formally commit itself to negotiating easier access for european companies to its market. this bilateral agreement will only be successful if it leads to greater reciprocity in our trade. i also reiterate the call on the member states and the commission to ensure that cultural and audiovisual services are excluded from the scope of these negotiations, and that the agreement protects eu public services and respects intellectual property rights. parliament must also have a say in these negotiations, and i ask that they be conducted with great transparency.
in writing. in 2011, the stock of foreign investment from the union in china was eur 102 billion in 2011, while the stock of foreign investment from china in the union was eur 15 billion. it was therefore very important to support this resolution which urges the commission to negotiate an ambitious and balanced investment agreement, in order to create a more favourable environment for union investors in china. we call for transparent negotiations, proper consideration of the specific interests of smes and increased access to the chinese market for european companies. and we also insisted that the cultural and audiovisual sectors should remain outside the scope of the future agreement.
in writing. − china is the world's second largest economy and the world's leading exporter. the trade balance is negative both for the eu as a whole and for latvia with china (in the case of latvia, imports are more than seven times higher than exports). the new investment agreement, which will replace the existing bilateral investment agreements between the 26 member states, will open up new opportunities for european businesses and promote investment in europe. chinese investors have more access to the eu market than our investors in china. therefore, in order to ensure a level playing field for our operators, the investment agreement should provide for china's move towards trade liberalisation and the opening up of its market. our entrepreneurs in china are currently facing a lack of predictability from the government, as well as various bureaucratic processes that are holding back, for example, foreign banks from entering the chinese market. equally important, a bilateral agreement between the eu and china will provide a level playing field for investors from all eu member states, as opposed to the current situation where some existing bilateral agreements between member states are more favourable than others. given that china is the world's largest source of counterfeit goods seized, the new agreement should certainly provide for the protection of intellectual property rights, which are currently denied to european companies wishing to invest in china. among other issues to be addressed in the new agreement is the protection of human rights, social and labour rights, which are currently at a low level in china. this must be done in conjunction with the building of confidence in the judicial system in order to enhance compliance with contractual obligations and transparency.
in writing. the european parliament has given its consent to the opening of negotiations on an investment agreement between the european union and ... china. it's like a dream. the least we can say is that china is often vilified by the european institutions, but when it comes to trade, it is clear that in china, as elsewhere, the interests of big business are the only ones that come first. the european union dares to urge china to "give greater prominence to the liberalization of its trade and the opening up of its market in order to guarantee fairer conditions of competition and should accelerate the dismantling of artificial barriers faced by companies wishing to access the chinese market". moreover, as in any investment agreement now, it is planned to incorporate a dispute settlement mechanism (i.e. a private arbitration tribunal to handle conflicts between states and companies), with the risks that this may entail as we now know, on social or environmental regulations. against free trade agreements of any kind and with any partners, i therefore voted against this agreement, which is surprising to say the least at a time when the eu is negotiating gmt with the usa in parallel.
in writing. as the european market is losing its edge, european companies are increasingly turning to china, which still has very attractive growth and totals almost €102 billion in european investment. yet this economic relationship is far from idyllic. many investors are faced with cases of direct and indirect expropriation, unjustified arbitrations, unfair trials, and even denial of justice. the technology transfer obligations linked to access to the chinese market are also a serious problem for our companies, which cannot forever cut back on the industry in which they are based by selling their patents and inventiveness. european businesses are tired of the unreliable judicial system of our trading partner and are rightly asking the eu to better secure their investments. i therefore supported the commission's initiative to open negotiations with china to guarantee our companies free and undistorted access to the chinese market in accordance with wto rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it reaffirms the importance of the wto for international trade relations but also the need for the european union to develop strong trade relations with its political partners, including in particular with taiwan.
in writing. the european commission's trade policy aims to create a europe open to all winds, to all competition, and open to a world trade that tends to jeopardise the fragile equilibrium of our societies. this new eu-taiwan agreement proposal undermines our concept of the welfare state. our social, wage, financial, environmental and tax standards are at a disadvantage in international markets, justifying various forms of protection and trade balancing. our way of life must not be sacrificed on the altar of world competition. where is the europe that protects us? the one we are promised every five years before the european elections?
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution which will pave the way for fruitful economic exchanges between the european union and taiwan which will have a positive impact on our economies and jobs.
in writing. - in the context of the bilateral agreements concluded by our union with third countries, i have always stressed the need to guarantee protection for our producers, seeking to mediate between the different sensitivities of the countries of our institution in the field of trade agreements. in this case, it is worth pointing out that the state of taiwan has production and trade peculiarities which, on the one hand, can certainly benefit certain strategic sectors of the eu, but on the other, risk undermining the quality regime of our products. i therefore believe that the necessary studies and measures should be taken to avoid the recurrence of certain criticisms arising from bilateral agreements, which have already been expressed in the field of trade in products.
in writing. this resolution promotes a trade agreement between the eu and taiwan. it should be noted that the eu has no diplomatic relations or official political relations with taiwan, but it recognises taiwan as an economic and commercial entity. the agreement highlights some positive points, recalling that these investments must serve general interest objectives, including social and environmental standards, human rights, safety, workers' and consumers' rights, public health and safety and cultural diversity. nevertheless, it remains a proposal for a bilateral agreement which puts trade liberalization above all other considerations. finally, the hypocrisy about taiwan, which is an integral part of china, continues. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, but it was rejected by a majority of the european parliament. the european commission's proposal concerns the regulation of flight times for pilots and aircrew, but it does not contain any guarantee as regards the principle of non-social regression. i therefore hope that the commission will propose a new text which will allow for european harmonization while respecting the principle of non-regression.
in writing. i voted against the resolution of the committee on transport and therefore i voted in favour of the proposal of the european commission on the amendment of regulation no 965/2012 laying down minimum rules on flight time for pilots. i am in favour of european harmonisation of the minimum flight time rules for pilots. the commission proposal, by addressing the issues of night work and fatigue with vigilance and pragmatism, follows the advice of the european aviation safety agency (easa). i believe that this proposal is justified, that it is justifiable and that it is essential for the improvement of european legislation applicable to air operations.
in writing. i opposed the commission's proposals on flight and rest times, because they are, in my view, threefoldly problematic. firstly, there is no real added value for the crew. i believe that if the european union is to take up this matter, it should have the ambition to improve working conditions. on the other hand, the working conditions envisaged may directly threaten the safety of passengers. finally, the increased role of the european aviation safety agency will allow it to take additional measures without the control of the european parliament.
in writing. the flight time added to the standby periods is still far too long; the job of a pilot is extremely difficult, and it requires constant attention. how can we ask them to stay awake for so many hours? this is not reasonable, because we are entrusting the lives of hundreds of europeans to our pilots every time: we must ensure that they are in the best possible physical and mental condition.
in writing. i regret the outcome of the vote in plenary. i felt it was essential to preserve the european parliament's legislative powers on these important matters, which must be subject to the co-decision procedure between the council and the european parliament, elected to represent the european citizens. i also regret that this vote was added in secret, depriving my colleagues of a serious look at the matter and our assembly of a thorough debate. parliament has today agreed to entrust the political decision-making on aviation safety and the labour law of aviation personnel to technicians.
in writing. i voted in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal for a harmonisation of the provisions on flight time for aircrew because i consider that this proposal is not satisfactory for several reasons. firstly, from the point of view of labour law, which is absolutely unsuitable for crews. the latter are themselves opposed to these proposals because of the risk of fatigue and therefore the risks to aviation safety, knowing that with the cumulation of flight time and waiting time, pilots could be forced to land an aircraft after 22 hours of wakefulness. secondly, as regards the form, the commission has proposed amendments which go far beyond mere administrative management and therefore require proper consultation of the european parliament, the co-legislator, rather than a simple yes or no.
in writing. i have chosen to reject the european commission's proposal and to support the motion adopted in the tran parliamentary committee. the proposal for revision sent to the european parliament on 25 july comprises two parts. however, the part concerning certification specifications is the sole responsibility of the executive director of the european aviation safety agency and thus deprives the european parliament of its right of access. in addition, the regulation currently in force allowed for the establishment of a common base of safety measures in the union; the revision of the regulation brings down the current safety measures. i regret the rejection of this motion for a resolution and would stress that the proposal for a revision of regulation no 1899/2006 does not respect the principle of non-regression or the right of the european parliament to have a say.
in writing. despite the alarm bells being sounded by the european parliament's transport committee and some trade unions, the european parliament rejected a resolution calling on the european commission to withdraw its implementing regulation on working time for airline pilots. this harmonization of european legislation is going in the right direction, reducing the maximum flight time to 11 hours instead of 11 hours and 45 minutes for example, and i can hear the fears of the pilots who wanted even stricter rules to be set. however, my decision to vote against this text is not linked to the proposed measures but to the undemocratic way in which they were adopted. i regret that the european parliament has not opposed the commission's regulation, which gives the european aviation safety agency (easa) extensive powers concerning pilot working conditions and passenger safety. the european parliament must not relinquish this essential competence, such measures must be able to be amended and voted on by the european members of parliament, who are the only representatives directly elected by citizens at european level.
in writing. this resolution opposes the amendments to the regulation made by the commission concerning technical requirements and administrative procedures applicable to air operations. these include extending the periods of wakefulness (up to 10 hours in a row), periods of actual work (15 hours of work in a row without a lunch break), reducing rest periods (up to 10 hours in the workplace or at the base). the amendments which the commission is introducing are contrary to common sense and do not meet the objective of passenger safety. moreover, the european parliament has not had access to the data on which the commission based its proposals. he was therefore not given the opportunity to exercise his right of observation with full knowledge of the issues involved. the commission has not provided sufficient scientific evidence to show that these measures do not pose a safety risk. i would add that the employment committee, which is responsible for the substance of the matter, has not even taken a position on the subject, since it is a question of working conditions. this text reflects the way the european institutions work: the commission acts with all its power while the parliamentarians are reduced to passing resolutions in an attempt to protect the security of their fellow citizens. i am voting for this text in order to frustrate the commission's manoeuvres.
in writing. improving the existing rules on flight time limitations for cabin crew and pilots in order to improve their working conditions and increase passenger safety is highly commendable. however, the way in which the european aviation safety authority has done this - the comitology procedure - is beyond democratic control and is not acceptable. further restrictions on the duration of night flights, new limits on flight times over a given period, additional rest periods to counteract the accumulated fatigue after long flights and in the event of disrupted schedules... these are essential changes to the existing regulation which have a direct impact on the working conditions of aviation personnel. we need harmonized rules in europe, but with the comitology procedure parliament can only reject or approve these new rules without changing them. i consider that democratic control must be exercised over such amendments and have therefore decided to reject the draft submitted to us. however, as it has been supported by a majority of my colleagues, these amendments will be effective - which i do not fundamentally criticise on the merits.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i do not think that the procedure chosen by the european commission, that of the implementing regulation, is appropriate here. the regulation covers aspects that go far beyond simple technical and administrative requirements. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. which this proposal does not allow. we were not able to make this position prevail in the vote on wednesday, 9 october. i will therefore be vigilant in future as to the implementation of this text and its impact on the safety conditions of air operations.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on flight and rest times for pilots and cabin crew, which was voted in plenary, leaves a bitter taste of incomprehension. the excessively long working hours of flight staff do not guarantee the safety of crew and passengers and the european commission's proposal fails to address this problem. the question of the uniformity of the rules at european level has not been resolved, which creates great disparities between countries. in addition, the control of the adopted rules will escape the european parliament and will be entirely in the hands of the european aviation safety agency, which will be able, at its pleasure, to take liberties on possible future amendments, good or bad, which is quite questionable from a democratic point of view. i regret that the scientists have not been listened to, despite their serious warnings about the risks involved. will we have to wait for another catastrophe to change that? we cannot afford to ignore the question of working conditions. there should be no distinction between jobs on land, at sea or in the air.
in writing. − flight time regulations have a very significant impact on air transport safety and the social interests of workers, as for example in the field of car travel and leisure time. uniform eu rules in this area must ensure the well-being of workers in the sector, also because the safety of air passengers directly depends on it. the eu regulation on aircraft operations needs to build on the best examples of member states' legislation in this area in order to guarantee the safety of workers and passengers. however, the ec's initial proposal envisaged that in several member states the ratio of flight-to-holiday time for aviation staff would deteriorate rather than improve. it is essential that the new legislation prevents crew members from working long hours and becoming so fatigued that they endanger their own lives and the lives of others during and outside working hours. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all air carriers. i voted against the motion for a resolution by the committee on transport on the grounds that the ec is committed to making important changes to the proposal for a regulation which will take account of the welfare of workers in the aviation sector.
in writing. the european parliament has voted on a regulation on the working time and conditions of pilots, flight attendants and stewards. this regulation provides for standby times at the airport combined with flight times of up to 22 hours. the commission's proposal was rejected by the transport committee following a strong mobilisation of the employees' unions. however, on the basis of an agreement reached overnight, the etf partly agreed to negotiate with the european commission, with transport commissioner kallas having lobbied hard to defend its regulation. many trade unions and employee representatives have warned against this practice of negotiating in a corner of the table and without transparency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the vote was unfortunately rejected by almost 30 votes to none. the vote was therefore taken and unfortunately it was the dogmatic liberal view of the european commission which took precedence over the safety of passengers and crew.
in writing. as a socialist, i believe that harmonisation at european level must necessarily bring added value: that is why i voted against the european commission's proposals on flight time and rest for airline pilots and cabin crew. the proposals on which we have just spoken today constitute a threat to the safety of passengers, a risk to the health and safety of seafarers and a risk of social regression. in addition, the european aviation safety agency (easa) will have full discretion to make further arrangements in this area without any political control. this is unacceptable because it is an attack on democracy: parliament will not play any role! i also regret that the last-minute negotiations have brought only minor improvements, without us having had time to consider the result calmly.
in writing. the flight time of pilots and flight crew has been decided on two levels. the eu first set a minimum safety standard (minimum rest periods, maximum night flight times, etc.) and then the member states decided on the application of the european text and could in particular impose higher (but never lower) safety standards. this double net was a guarantee of increased air safety for passengers and pilots. thus, when applying the european text, france could impose rest periods longer than the european minimum. the new commission proposal removes this possibility from the member states, since the european aviation safety agency (easa) would be responsible for defining the procedures for applying the european minimum, over which neither the european parliament nor the member states have any control. i opposed this proposal in the name of the principle of subsidiarity and i sincerely regret that a majority of my colleagues have succumbed to the commission's lobbying and have blindly adopted a transfer of power, which i do not wish to endorse!
in writing. in the face of the humanitarian catastrophe caused by the war in syria, which has made 2 102 582 people refugees, the vast majority of whom are women and children (source: unhcr) and whereas more than 50 000 asylum applications have been registered in europe since the beginning of the conflict, i was keen to support this european parliament resolution. the european union, its member states and the international community as a whole are urged to continue to show solidarity in order to help these displaced people and to guarantee asylum to syrian nationals who request it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution stressing the union's duty to do more to protect syrian refugees. i welcome the substantial humanitarian aid provided by the union and welcome the implementation of the common european asylum system (ceas). while the un regional plan for syrian refugees forecasts that syrian refugees will number 3.5 million by the end of 2013, mainly in neighbouring countries, the european union must continue to show solidarity to the best of its ability.
in writing. i supported this resolution. it was put on the agenda because of the urgency of the crisis in syria and in particular the situation of syrian refugees. it is important that the european union and its member states provide a humanitarian response to this crisis and call for a humanitarian conference on the situation of syrian refugees. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. this european parliament resolution aims to find solutions to manage the large number of refugees fleeing the conflict in syria. according to the united nations, 3.5 million refugees will have left syria by the end of the year, threatening to destabilize the entire region. i voted in favour of this resolution because i want the european union to be involved in the effort to protect these refugees. we have called for a humanitarian conference to help syria's neighbours (especially lebanon, jordan, turkey and iraq) to welcome syrian refugees in the best possible conditions. we have also asked the member states of the european union to step up their diplomatic efforts in syria and to provide humanitarian aid to these refugees. finally, we called on european states to take in syrian refugees themselves and to guarantee fair access to asylum procedures. in order to enable the resettlement of refugees in emergency situations, member states will be able to use european funds, in particular the migration and asylum fund.
in writing. the approach taken should be considered as positive. the measures advocated to allow syrian refugees to enter the eu are welcome. but they are still hypocritical: legal admission has so far been very low (around 50 000), with france showing a particularly low number. it would do well to take swift action to facilitate the admission of these refugees, instead of making a bellicose bid that increases their numbers. i am voting for this text, which is moving in the right direction, because of the exceptional seriousness of the dramatic issue of syrian refugees, which is finally being recognized.
in writing. according to figures from the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), there are currently nearly 2 million syrian refugees who have crossed the borders of syria to flee the fighting. of the refugees, 76% are women and children and of these children, 410,000 are of primary school age (i.e. between 5 and 11 years old). there are also more than 4 million internally displaced persons. in the face of such a situation, it is absolutely crucial that the european union, the world's leading humanitarian donor, continue its efforts to meet the needs of refugees and internally displaced persons. i therefore supported the text adopted by parliament which calls, among other things, for the european union to organise a humanitarian conference on the syrian refugee crisis and to give priority to measures for the countries in the region which are hosting these refugees (in particular lebanon, jordan, turkey and iraq).
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which was the result of difficult negotiations between the political groups. it is far from being up to the task of helping the refugees of the syrian war, because it is too much behind the action of the countries bordering syria. the european parliament, however, calls on the member states to take action and assume their responsibilities in favour of syrian refugees, a request that is all the more justified in the wake of the new tragedy in lampedusa. it is high time that the member states, and in particular france, "facilitate their resettlement beyond national quotas, by allowing them to enter the territory for humanitarian reasons", that they activate the temporary protection system and show more solidarity among themselves rather than leaving the southern states alone in the face of the flows of migrants. i welcome the adoption of my amendments on the obligation to provide rescue at sea, the refusal of refoulement and the strict application of the rules on the detention of migrants. the mediterranean must stop being the graveyard for hundreds of migrants every year and syrians must be able to find refuge in the eu.
in writing. we all feel for the syrian people, who are victims of the tyranny of a power that is beyond all limits of what is acceptable. the desperation of the syrians has forced hundreds of thousands of them to flee to lebanon, jordan and europe. this situation raises the question of how the union will respond to this massive influx of refugees fleeing terror. this is the subject of the resolution i have defended, which stresses the need for european support for syria's neighbours in responding to health emergencies. europe cannot accommodate all those who seek to escape from blood-thirsty diets. it does not have the means to do so and the issue of the management of the union's external borders is too sensitive to be taken lightly. but european countries, with a centuries-old humanist tradition, must help the countries bordering syria to ensure that refugees are received in decent conditions. this is an imperative of solidarity from which the union cannot escape, within the limits of its material and financial capacities. i therefore welcome this vote, which sends a positive and pragmatic message to its partners who are weakened by the syrian crisis.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, madam commissioner, honourable members, i am grateful for the opportunity to address this important issue. the situation of the roma people is a human crisis. millions of our fellow eu citizens lead desperate lives on the margins, in deep poverty and without any realistic opportunity of improving their situation. they are the poorest of the poor – frequently forgotten. the council very much shares the concern of this parliament over the situation of europe’s roma, our largest ethnic community. the promotion of roma integration is primarily a matter of social justice. it is not acceptable that any ethnic group should be so excluded in europe in the twenty-first century. our inability to protect and provide for a minority group risks calling into question our international credibility. it is difficult for the european union to criticise ethnic injustice on the world stage if we are unable to integrate and protect our own minorities. but improving the situation of europe’s roma is also an economic imperative. we cannot afford to waste the potential of so many of our citizens. they have the capacity to offer so much to society and to their own community. whilst everyone is born with the potential for self-fulfilment, a child raised in deep poverty has little chance of bringing that potential to fruition. many of the roma in europe today go without essentials such as decent housing, proper education and healthcare and have very little chance of securing employment. once entire communities fall into extreme deprivation, whatever their ethnic identity, they can only recover through long-term policies which provide for their social inclusion. that is why we must continue to put emphasis on developing an integrated approach which covers the full range of social issues. the council has already expressed its concern at the continuing social problems of the roma communities, focusing on the four key aspects of education, employment, healthcare and housing. in may 2011 the council adopted conclusions which established an eu framework for national roma integration strategies up to 2020. this work drew on parliament’s own report on the eu strategy on roma inclusion drawn up by mrs lívia járóka, which made a significant contribution to the european union’s work in this area. the council specifically called on the member states to pursue objectives in the four areas i have just mentioned, with the aim of closing the gap between marginalised roma communities and the general population. improving the situation of the roma is a vital long-term policy goal, one which needs to involve a wide range of actors. the eu institutions have a vital part to play. the commission has a particular role to play in monitoring and coordinating our overall approach. but the main responsibility, of course, lies with the member states. the policies for ensuring the social inclusion of the roma have to be addressed primarily at national level. it is also crucial that roma representatives, ngos and local authorities are all involved in the development of those policies. like parliament and the commission, the council has returned to the issue of roma integration regularly in recent years. the council is currently examining the commission’s proposal for a council recommendation. this instrument will support the implementation of the national strategies that have been developed within the eu framework that was put in place two years ago. the presidency hopes to see the recommendation adopted in december. i am convinced that this will provide additional impetus to our joint efforts in this important area.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the situation of the roma people in our continent often leads to emotional and polarising debates. it calls our own definition of tolerance and our understanding of solidarity into question, and it involves us all: the european union, the member states, the local authorities, the roma themselves: each and every citizen. the vast majority of roma living in the european union are european citizens. the european commission makes sure that the eu legislation is respected when it comes to the roma, as it is for all other eu citizens too. to that effect we are following the situation in each member state, in particular with the directive securing the free movement of persons within the eu and the directive prohibiting any discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin. the european commission is also committed to stopping social and economic exclusion of the most vulnerable of our eu citizens, including the roma communities, of course, and in this respect, the european commission has proposed that every member state commit to do so with measures that are defined at national level, in relation to the dimension and challenge they face, and implemented at local level. the commission also insists on the need to empower local roma communities, because social inclusion brings better results when targeted communities are involved in the process. but the path towards roma integration is not straightforward, nor can we expect it to be short. there are no quick fixes here, and we know it. let me recall the commission’s role in stepping up roma inclusion. we have defined three major difficulties. first, the lack of coordination between actors promoting roma integration, in particular across the european union. that is why the creation of the network of roma national contact points, which was initiated by the commission with the strong support of parliament, has moved us forward in this respect. we finally see synergies among member states. similar synergies are taking place among international organisations, with the creation of a coalition of international organisations in which the commission participates. second, the lack of political will from national decision-makers. we have managed to put the roma issue on the agenda of the council in 2011 (by ‘we’, i mean the commission and the european parliament, by joining forces on this subject). following our call for action, all member states have adopted national roma integration strategies. our aim is to keep exercising political pressure and facilitating peer review, while at the same time providing guidance to member states in that domain. the third difficulty is the difficulty faced by stakeholders in mobilising the financial means to implement their plans and the commitments made at european and national levels. at national level we are seeing some progress, but we need now to reach out to the local authorities, making sure that they get what they need and that they develop meaningful plans to integrate roma communities. the commission is aware of the social and economic challenges that roma inclusion represents for all local authorities. that is why we have put a lot of effort into facilitating the use of the european structural and investment funds for projects dedicated to roma integration during the new programming period 2014-2020. in particular, the commission has set the convincing implementation of the national roma integration strategies as one of the conditionalities for the delivery of funds. in addition we are leading a dialogue with national and local authorities in order to facilitate exchanges of information on how better to use the funds for roma integration. last june the commission came with a set of recommendations in order to enhance the implementation of the national roma integration strategies by the national authorities. this proposal, which is currently being discussed in the council, gives concrete recommendations to support local and regional authorities, which are the key actors in roma integration and have been left alone for too long. the european commission also recommends facilitating transnational cooperation at regional and local level. finally, we recommend fighting prejudices by placing particular attention to the protection of children and women. next spring the commission will report to the european parliament and to the council on the impact of the national strategies for access to education, healthcare, employment and housing.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we have a european strategy for roma integration which i believe is on track and is very comprehensive. then we have a commissioner who, as you have just done again, mrs reding, recalls the rules, duties and obligations and also the way in which we must proceed to achieve the integration of the roma. i am thinking that perhaps you should take a number of european politicians by the hand and take them out into the field so that they can see integration projects that work. there are many in europe. there are many in france, there are many in romania, there are many throughout europe. perhaps, finally, the integration of roma, you have to see it to realize that it really exists. i now consider that words which are held to important levels of political responsibility are not compatible, they are strategies for the disintegration of our european policy. i hope you will be firm in the face of these attitudes. i also believe that, on the ground, there are abrupt interruptions in the integration process caused by repeated evacuations. in france, for example, almost half of the roma population in france has been evacuated since the beginning of the year. in each case, social support and schooling are interrupted, which is of course a major obstacle to the success of our european strategy. i also believe that the networks of national contact points are very valuable and very effective resources, which should be valued and their political support and capacity to act with central, territorial and local administrations to promote roma integration should be sought to the maximum. finally, it seems to me, mrs reding, that on a number of subjects you must show your firmness and possibly initiate infringement proceedings. when it comes to the impediments to free speech, when it comes to the impediments to our anti-discrimination guidelines, we must not hesitate. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i am not quite clear on the point of your question, since the facts have little to do with the subject under discussion today. but i understand your political intention, which is quite unhealthy and contributes to a large extent to increasing the discrimination suffered by the roma, by placing on the backs of this population the suspicion of organized crime, which is unworthy of being heard in this chamber. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, before reading my text, i should like to say that i did not want to give the previous speaker a "blue card" because his remarks are so shocking. i think you'll understand. (applause) mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the situation of the roma in europe, there are many things that need to be worked out. yes, roma have the right to free movement within the european union. they already have the right to travel freely in europe, and this is not linked to the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, which is a completely different matter. you have mentioned it, commissioner. yes, roma have rights like any other european citizen and they also have duties, including the duty to respect the rules of the countries in which they have chosen to reside. yes, we must promote the integration of the roma population in europe and respect diversity. but we also need to listen to the citizens and local elected officials, their concerns and give more resources to local authorities, so that they can, more easily, face the management challenges they face. in this context, i very much welcome the european commission's initiative to organise a meeting of mayors in spring 2014 and to set up an online tool to enable local authorities to better understand the free movement of european citizens by exchanging with commission experts. yes, it is very important to provide european funds to promote, for example, the schooling of roma children. however, we must strictly and rigorously monitor these funds and the projects they support. yes, sometimes it is necessary to dismantle roma camps for reasons of public order or public health, and it is not a question of right or left, or of a government majority. i note that these dismantling operations are not the prerogative of a political majority. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tolerance and responsibility must be the two keywords of our policies. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the registration of roma in sweden, the hunting of roma in hungary, the construction of an anti-roma wall in slovakia and the evacuation of roma camps in france are all events which raise questions about the place reserved for roma in europe. the recent revelations of an illegal file containing the names of more than 4,000 swedish roma has shocked public opinion in particular. i have also seen the furor in france over the integration of roma in favour of municipal pre-campaigns exploited for political purposes, with arguments that also mix up the question of ending the transitional measures for romania and bulgaria with that of the accession of these two countries to schengen. i believe that we must get away from these simplistic and simplifying discourses, cool down the debate and move forward, i believe, in three directions: firstly, at european level, the commission is responsible for ensuring full respect for european rules on non-discrimination, freedom of movement and the right of residence. but, beyond the declarations, the commission must also exercise effective, more substantiated and probably more binding control over the implementation of national roma integration strategies and the use of european funds. in the countries of origin, everyone must then fight against all forms of discrimination against these populations and adopt proactive integration policies, so as not to force the populations into exile. european funds are available to fight poverty in general and therefore to help the roma in particular. this is a hypocrisy that must be stopped. in the host countries, local authorities are often at the forefront of the day-to-day management of newcomers to their territory. they should be given more support to activate european financial instruments alongside associative actors, thus promoting access to the law in return for compliance with the conditions of schooling for children, non-begging, language learning and training. i believe that with these three points we have the means to break the deadlock we are in at the moment. (applause) i would like to thank
the question is "blue cardboard". i thank you, mr preda, for making the effort to speak in french on this occasion. it is not really a question, it is just to point out that, as regards the socialist jean-marc ayrault, as you have described him, i believe that his last statements indicated rather that the integration of the roma must also take place in france. so you must have misread it, sir.
mr president, let us be realistic: the discrimination, ghettoization and marginalisation of the roma in europe is real, as is the ineffectiveness of the actions of their countries of origin. unfortunately, political correctness, statements and words too often take precedence over actions. unfortunately, the lack of an effective response eventually generates fear and withdrawal, the first steps towards xenophobia and racism. according to commissioner reding, there is 50 billion unspent on the roma, probably she is talking about the 50 billion from the structural funds for social inclusion in general. but are they really used for roma? do the states concerned have the administrative capacity and, above all, the political will to use them to build useful and effective projects? our efforts must focus primarily on supporting projects and educating the roma population so that they can have a future and a job in their own countries and not be abandoned to the mafia, traffickers or extremists.
mr president, commissioner, we are facing an electric shock, commissioner. our colleague, hélène flautre, said earlier that we must defend the european strategy which you are announcing and developing. i think we need to go further now. we need more europe and we need to ensure that together, here in the european parliament but also in the european commission, we can tell the european council, the heads of state and government to take up their collective responsibilities, to allow financial policies to be put in place not only for those member states which do not allow the funding of roma in a number of new member states of the european union to be completed but also for certain other member states which do not put in place sufficient integration plans. it is the fight against intolerance, against racism, against those xenophobic overtones which we heard again earlier in this house. we said at one point, 70 years ago, never again. so if we want to fight effectively against those who are racists, well, let us do it, commissioner, to enable a great policy of integration of the roma in europe.
the recent murder of a young greek anti-fascist activist by a member of the golden dawn party is a reminder of the dangers that right-wing extremism can pose to our democracies. we have seen in greece that these parties sometimes manage to enter parliament. in other places, others prefer to stand in the background, like snipers, to attack from the outside. in other places they are testing their ideas with certain traditional right-wing parties. these extreme right-wing parties are fed by the anxiety caused by the crisis and by economic disarray, by the violence of an uncontrolled globalisation that loses its bearings, which is based on a rhetoric that blames the other for all the evils. so to counter this development, whose ideology is the seed of unacceptable violence, economic action must be taken first. the rise of the far right will not be halted as long as the dominant sentiment is that of the exclusive defence of the interests of the powerful. we must therefore defend a genuine social pact. secondly, we must revive the notion of protection against unchecked globalisation: we must allow a reflection on fair trade to be set up with this notion of fair trade which we are trying to develop. and in the face of this, in the face of this strategy of denigrating european values, we must redefine the meaning and values, as well as the projects of european construction. why are we together? what do we want to do together? and the answers to these questions, in my view, can only be more solidarity, more justice and more social cohesion.
the question is "blue cardboard". if you want a balanced debate, ladies and gentlemen, can you tell us what murder, what attack, what attack on a foreigner, on a homosexual or on any other group of people you think of as left-wing extremism? today, to suppress right-wing extremism is simply to suppress common criminals, you agree, you are not able to give a single example comparable to what you call the far left.
madam president, it is difficult not to think about it; it is hard not to think of the golden dawn's orchestrated migrant hunt in greece; it is difficult not to think, also tonight, of the whistles in an italian stadium this weekend in verona, which accompanied the minute's silence for the dead of lampedusa; it's hard not to think about brignoles. three very different phenomena, but the same observation: europe is sick. the europe of 2013 is in many ways similar to that of 1929, the europe of economic and social crisis, the europe of despair, of misery and therefore the europe of the rise of fascism. these movements share a common ideology: racism, xenophobia, nationalism, but also, and above all, here in this chamber, a deep euroscepticism that flourishes on the soil of social discontent, the crisis and the austerity policies carried out and poorly explained by europe, accompanied by the democratic deficit. the answer must be paradoxically european. europe must reinvent itself, it must oppose a strong political project to the extreme right. she can't appear as a policeman who punishes and never protects. it must propose an institutional breakthrough with community tools and policies, and it needs a strong political personality. we have talked a lot about greece. i would like to quote seneca who said, "the wind is favourable only to him who knows where he is going". our shores are europe reinvented, consolidated and incarnated. it is the only salvation for the people of europe.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, vice-president of the commission, honourable members, i am grateful for this opportunity to respond to the various issues raised in the question which has been tabled jointly by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on foreign affairs. it is important to begin by recalling the legal framework within which both our institutions function. the treaties state clearly ‘national security remains the sole responsibility of each member state’. this means that the work of intelligence agencies of member states falls outside the remit of the european union and its institutions. the investigation of the allegation of involvement in the cia programme is therefore a matter for the member states. the activities of national security and intelligence services cannot be addressed at eu level. that is the treaty. and this is why the council has not been able to follow up on your resolution which was adopted in september 2012. it is simply not possible for the council to issue declarations concerning the activities of the security services of the member states, given that these fall outside its competence. for the same reason the council has not held hearings with the relevant eu security agencies. as far as the issue of mutual legal assistance in this area is concerned, this would be a purely bilateral matter between the member states involved. furthermore, it is not within the competence of the council to propose safeguards so as to guarantee respect for human rights in intelligence-sharing or to provide for any delimitation of roles between intelligence and law-enforcement activities. you will appreciate that a legal constraint on the council and indeed on all the eu institutions in relation to this issue means that the council has not been able to initiate any measures to provide for a follow-up to the recommendation in your report from last year. that does not mean that the council has been silent. it has stated clearly on several occasions that the fight against terrorism has to take place in full respect for international law, including human rights law, international humanitarian law and refugee law. it has been clear also that the existence of secret detention facilities where detained persons are kept in a legal vacuum is not in conformity with international law. we can only be successful in the fight against terrorism in the long term if we stay true to our core values. any violations of human rights and the rule of law by government agencies in the fight against terrorism give rise to grievances and could actually encourage individuals to resort to terrorism. of course such circumstances can never justify or excuse any act of terrorism under any circumstances. the eu holds a regular dialogue with the us involving legal advisers on international law aspects of the fight against terrorism. this dialogue is an opportunity to address questions such as the arrest, detention, interrogation and transfer of terrorist suspects. it also enables the eu to underline the importance of respect for international law and human rights. however, it should be clear that the specific activities of intelligence services are not covered in this dialogue. summaries of these meetings have been made available to parliament but full minutes have not been released, given the need to protect the confidential nature of the discussions. diplomatic exchanges such as these are only valuable if the participants can express themselves openly and freely. on such sensitive issues quiet diplomacy is more beneficial than more public pronouncements. the council does not therefore accept that it has breached the principle of loyal cooperation as far as access to documents is concerned. it handles all requests in accordance with the existing rules and practices. each of us operates within a legal framework which we have to respect. where we can make progress or take measures, we are ready to do so, as in the case of our dialogue with the us but, if we want to ensure that the principles which i have just outlined are respected, our best way of achieving that is through patient diplomacy and discreet pressure. that is the most effective way of achieving results.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, practices referred to as ‘renditions’ constitute a serious violation of several fundamental rights. they involve unlawful arrest, arbitrary detention and very often torture or other ill-treatment, and we have already underlined several times in this chamber that the fight against terrorism cannot justify such practices. this has also been confirmed now by the council presidency, which has also underlined another fact: questions of national security are outside the remit of the european union. the treaty does not give the commission any competence to lead investigations into such matters, which is why the commission has always stressed that it is up to the member states to conduct in-depth, independent and impartial investigation to establish the truth. this is a positive obligation which derives from the european convention on human rights in order to establish responsibilities and enable the victims to obtain compensation for damage. today the european parliament is again asking about the possible breach of eu provisions by those member states that, seemingly, collaborated with the cia programme. the questions refer mainly to judicial cooperation with the united states. let me now put the facts on the table. at the time of the execution of these cia programmes – between 2001 and 2003 – there was no eu provision applicable to judicial cooperation between the eu and the usa. only in october 2009 did the council adopt a decision approving the conclusion of two agreements with the united states: one on extradition and one on mutual legal assistance. both agreements entered into force on 1 january 2010, and both clarify and unify the legal framework of judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the united states from that moment on. i would like once again to make a clear distinction between two necessities. first, the obligation to uncover the truth. this falls exclusively within the responsibility of the member states. the commission cannot directly coordinate or even facilitate national investigations in this field, because it has no power to set up meetings of prosecutors, for example, or of other national authorities in charge of the investigations. the council is present at our discussions today, and it has already said very clearly what its responsibility in that matter is. the second element – to avoid reiteration – is that the eu’s and the member states’ actions against terrorism must always comply with fundamental rights standards. one of the key changes in the legal framework since the european parliament’s first resolution has been the entry into force of the eu-us agreement on extradition and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this agreement represents the key channels for law enforcement cooperation, and the commission has to ensure that this instrument, as well as all other relevant eu legislation against terrorism, is implemented and applied in a manner fully compatible with the charter of fundamental rights. on this basis, commissioner malmström and myself sent a letter on 5 march 2013 to the ministers of the interior and the ministers of justice of all member states to stress the importance of using all relevant eu instruments in the fight against terrorism and to recall that these instruments must be implemented and applied in a manner fully compatible with the charter. only six member states have replied so far. the european commission services reminded the other member states about the letters in july, and the european commission will continue to urge member states to answer, as we have no intention of neglecting this important challenge for the future of judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
for the greens/efa group mr president, as has been mentioned, we adopted a report a year ago, which was the result of a long, laborious and very substantial work carried out under the authority of mr coelho in this committee of inquiry. this report was adopted by a large majority a year ago and i personally hope that this broad consensus for justice and truth will be reflected in the vote on our resolution tomorrow. for the past year, this resolution has been taking stock of the events and facts that have taken place. i will tell our polish colleague that, for example, we have had the decision of the european court of human rights on macedonia in the el-masri case for a year now, and that was last december; finland launched an inquiry through its ombudsman in november last year; the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. those investigations are over. we also have new victims who are calling for justice from lithuania, this was last september, last month. in poland, last june, a victim pleaded her case and for recognition of her victim status in poland. each day and each month brings its own news. i really believe that it would be futile for the member states to curl up and bury their heads in the sand and hope that eventually all this will end up in the limbo of history and that we will never know the truth. many people are working and many cases are now before the european court of human rights. you are the president of the council. you are lithuanian, and your country has always maintained, always said, that it would reopen an investigation, that it was available to do so, if new facts were presented to it. these new facts exist, and i ask you to accept the responsibility of creating a european framework to support investigations in the member states, so that, finally, european citizens can be assured that the policies being pursued in the name of their security are being pursued in full respect of human rights.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, a little over a year ago we adopted a text on the illegal activities of the cia in the european union. he was a crucial milestone in determining who was responsible for this notorious and sinister cia program on our soil. it contained clear and practical recommendations. one year after that vote and after numerous reports, including those of the council of europe, it was therefore important to take stock of the situation, and i would like to thank hélène flautre for her tenacity. where are we? at or near dead-end. most of the recommendations have not been followed; even the judicial investigations, although mostly incomplete, have made little progress. yes, but new information is constantly being added to support the facts. i call this judicial malpractice ten years after the fact. this inertia is absolutely outrageous. some here even want to go back and just generalize. i don't know why. our line of action for the resolution that will be put to the vote tomorrow will be the same as in 2012: we will stick to the facts so that everyone takes responsibility and that the victims - as you said, madam commissioner - finally get redress. violations of human rights are always intolerable, including and especially when the state is at fault. mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. then pity! stop hiding behind your skills to refuse to answer questions. the fight against terrorism must never be used to justify certain freedoms taken away from human rights. there is a need for truth and justice and if there are any deviations, they must be recognised and punished to prevent a repetition of such acts. ten years after the fact, it's about time!
the question is "blue cardboard". i would like to ask the honourable member whether, on the one hand, he does not think that there are a number of international standards which must be respected in terms of the independence and reliability of investigations? secondly, does it consider that paragraph 6, which calls on poland to pursue its investigation with greater transparency and to cooperate fully with the echr, has anything to do with allegations?
in writing. the epp has always defended the rule of law and stated that if illegal detentions of prisoners by the cia or acts of torture had taken place on european territory it would strongly condemn them. the epp therefore supported the flautre follow-up report of the tdip committee in 2012. today we remain true to our values and commitments. however, since the adoption of this report, no significant new elements have come to our attention. this resolution contains a large number of unsubstantiated allegations and serious accusations against several member states which we cannot support without evidence. the epp therefore decided to abstain on the final vote.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner malmström, more than any other debate, this debate, although long in the making, is now marked by a sad memory, that of the many migrants who perished in the mediterranean trying to reach the shores of europe in search of a better destiny, of which you spoke very aptly. however, after the shock of this terrible tragedy and after all the emotional and indignant statements, i fear that this debate will in the end be reduced to mere cosmetic adjustments, perpetuating the hypocrisy we have seen over the years. if instruments exist, and others will emerge, it is regrettable that their scope is all too often contradicted by the lack of political will to implement them; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the member states have not given the signals that are going in the right direction. even today, our migration policy is too often reduced to a purely repressive approach, which, for example, means that some fishermen off lampedusa prefer to keep their boats away rather than be accused of aiding illegal immigration. to prevent more lampedusas, we need a genuine european migration policy, one that is common, solidary, comprehensive and articulated, not just pieces of legislation glued together, however useful they may be in isolation. it's a policy that opens up more legal pathways for migration, because without legal pathways, in the end, it's the criminal smugglers who will thrive and death will triumph. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i have not heard a question from mr iacolino, but i hear him saying that there is no longer any criminalization of people who come to help people who have died or who really need to be saved, more precisely at sea. well, that's all well and good, but you also just confirmed that this law criminalized people before. so you're confirming it all the same, sir.
mr president, following the tragedy in lampedusa, european governments are preparing to make it much easier for foreigners to enter european territory. but it is clear that the diplomacy of emotion is the most dangerous and the least appropriate to the situation. it's the exact opposite. the moment you let these men and women think that they can risk their lives and that if they can set foot on european soil, then they will be saved; then they will be able to stay in europe; then they can be taken care of, their children can be educated "for free"; so they can get "free" care, and when i say "free", i put in quotes because it's not free, of course, it's taken care of by the national communities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that the member states are not able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the social policy is not distorted. from that moment on, they'll try their luck. they will take the risk, and you will be personally and morally responsible for the deaths that will be found along the way and for the terrible risk that you will take. of course, the only way to stop these deaths from multiplying is to send a very clear signal of firmness, to explain that there is no point in trying this crazy adventure because we will have a firm reaction and we will bring these illegal immigrants back home. this is the only viable and humane solution for them and for us. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". sir, in france, the right to asylum has exploded by 72% in five years. how many asylum seekers do you think we can accommodate? it is clear that european capitals bear a heavy responsibility, because the people who died in lampedusa a few days ago were leaving eritrea or somalia because of islamist governments that are spreading terror. but instead of fighting these governments, european capitals have created islamist governments by direct intervention in libya yesterday, and probably in syria tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". sir, i agree with you completely, we were one of the only movements to have advocated cooperation with africa in all circumstances. and you're right! we must also fight against the scandalous plundering of africa's resources by a handful of global corporations with the complicity of our governments, who are throwing millions of africans into the roads of exile and leaving our compatriots to maintain them at their own expense.
madam president, history stutters, but we, the people of europe, stutter too. a little over a year ago, in this very chamber, there were almost the same speakers in the wake of the crisis in lampedusa in may 2012 and the mass arrival of migrants on the island. we have been several members of this parliament to go there, to see and to see the difficulties on the ground: the problem of fundamental rights, the need, already, for a new and genuine migration policy for europe. the history is indeed a funny one, it is even repeating itself in a macabre way, since we are again faced today with a new debate, following the tragedy of a few days ago, with a new drama that reminds us, once again, of the daily reality we are familiar with, with men, women and children who are not fleeing systematically from the pangs of economic problems, as mrs front national has just reminded us, but who are fleeing from wars, violence and displacement, and who are trying their luck thinking they will find refuge in europe. so, despite the passing of months, the situation is still the same and we are still asking for the same thing as yesterday. so what are we doing in this parliament? and more importantly, what is the council doing? what are the states doing? this new tragedy, ladies and gentlemen, could have been avoided if our remarks had been heard. more than 25 000 people have died in the past 20 years in the cemetery that has become the mediterranean, and the european union boasts that it has won the nobel peace prize. by doing nothing, we are letting these young men, women and children die. for me, they are first and foremost human beings before being migrants who leave their country. finally, what are the states doing? they make hypocrisy a policy. we're told about frontex and they're cutting funding. we have various instruments, but there is no coherence between them. and europe is also being scapegoated, whereas it is the states that must express this solidarity in a concert animated by europe, and which must respect their obligations. these dramatic migration episodes have an equally dramatic outcome. they only increase the dislike of europe with the easy and populist speeches we have just heard and they are a disgrace to our european values.
madam president, yesterday or the day before yesterday the president of the european parliament expressed the hope that the tragedy in lampedusa would lead to a change of direction in the european union's migration policy, and i must say that the council's conclusions yesterday and your statements today show rather a readiness to accelerate the policy that is already being pursued. task forces, funding, extended frontex operations, perhaps, but what analysis is being made, after 25 000 drownings in the mediterranean, of the european union's migration policy in this region? what kind of test? frontex, his hermes operation, bailed out by two million, but for what? what's wrong? what is the analysis of the failure of frontex's hermes operation in lampedusa? will we decide to change the priorities of the european union's migration policy? you said there were no legal migration channels, and that was one of the reasons for leaving. but i have heard nothing from the council yesterday about developing legal migration channels, nor from you or the council today. we should also ask ourselves whether the pursuit of illegal migration is not one of the reasons why these people are leaving in totally unsuitable conditions, in the hands of networks that are totally undesirable, and therefore whether the pursuit of illegal immigration, which is claimed by the european union, is not one of the drivers that ultimately leads us to these disasters. and i believe that if we do not ask these fundamental questions, we cannot believe for a single second that the commitments made here are sincere and we can only expect further disasters. the next ship could be a syrian ship.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr. speroni, you are talking about an invasion. words have meaning, how can you use that term? i wish we could use the right words. the word "invasion" is terrible. we are not in an invasion zone. do you agree?
madam president, pitying ourselves and then forgetting is no longer possible. over 20,000 dead in this cemetery that has become our mare nostrum. how long? the emergency is here. the people in those boats, that could have been me. i was born on the other side, on the other side of the mediterranean. how can you not be moved, revolted? all the young people in the world, whether in the south or in the north, aspire to travel, to see the world, to travel, but this is not possible for our brothers and sisters in the southern mediterranean, because the current visa policy of the member states is building a real fortress. the member states, because they are responsible, must get out of this madness of forgetting people and stop seeing only numbers, migration flows. what we need today is not a migration policy but a genuinely european policy on the movement of people, a policy on mobility. how can we open up the flow of goods but not the flow of people?
in writing. enough with the speeches about fortress europe! each year, the european union welcomes some 1.8 million immigrants from outside europe. 200,000 in france alone. it is good that there are legal channels of immigration, so many and so wide that their predictable economic and social consequences are increasingly exasperating the host populations. enough with the selfish blame on the north: more than 75% of the 300 000 annual asylum applications are handled by 6 european countries, starting with france and germany. the same number of applications in belgium as in italy, each of which exceeded 30 000. the tragedy of lampedusa is indeed terrible. it must not make us lose sight of the fact that we have neither the vocation nor the capacity to accommodate all the misery in the world. and above all, in your europe without frontiers, lampedusa is only a point of entry: the final destinations of migrants are often very far from the mediterranean. the current untenable situation of the states responsible for the external borders of the european union would be radically different if we were to re-establish these internal borders. the solutions of laxism that you advocate, systematic reception, easy access to international protection, will increase the number of migrants, but will not reduce the risks of their journey to the supposed eldorado that is europe.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me start by congratulating the rapporteur on his birthday today and also thanking him and the libe committee and the team around them for the work they have done, enabling us to finish the trialogue on the eurosur regulation in less than six months. i hope that parliament and the council will adopt this regulation so that it can enter into force in december as provided for. this is something that has been under discussion since 2008, when the then commission presented its roadmap, and we have managed to develop, test, legislate for and implement the system in a relatively short time. the debate on eurosur is very timely, following directly on from the debate on lampedusa and underlining eurosur’s important role in protecting and saving the lives of migrants trying to reach european shores. we have no illusions that eurosur in itself will put an end to such horrific events – their causes are deep-rooted – but it can help to make a difference. on the commission’s side, we are currently putting a lot of effort into improving the capability of frontex and member states to detect migrants travelling in small and unseaworthy boats. as you know, the use of these types of vessel is the main reason why so many people die at sea. we have analysed the problem and have spoken with experts from member states and industry about how to detect the boats better. this has confirmed the approach chosen. the main challenges in detecting small boats are the lack of coordination between different national authorities and a lack of proper communication channels among them. so one of the key aims of eurosur is ‘inter-agency cooperation’. it will force member states internally to implement cooperation between different authorities and centres and to coordinate more effectively and make sure they are working together in the same room. thanks to the european parliament, the amendments to the eurosur regulation will require national coordination centres to ensure timely and exact information-sharing with search and rescue authorities and to report to frontex any incidents relating to a risk to the lives of migrants. also thanks to your amendments, the eurosur regulation will require that frontex cooperates not only with the european external action service but also with eu delegations abroad in order to collect information on migration routes. another very important characteristic of eurosur is ‘information exchange’. frontex is currently testing with the member states the eurosur communication network and the european situational picture. this will allow frontex to receive within minutes information from member states on incidents occurring at the external borders. eurosur will promote the exchange of information not only inside and between member states but also with neighbouring countries. this currently takes place outside the eu framework, but in future it will be regulated strictly under the eurosur regulation, with very clear provisions on non-refoulement and personal data protection. you also insisted in the negotiations that the commission be empowered to verify the compliance of any border surveillance agreement concluded between a member state and a third country, to ensure that the requirements of the eurosur regulation are accepted, and that we inform you accordingly. lastly, ‘solidarity’ is an important word in connection with eurosur. it will help to identify hotspots at our external borders and to provide support to the relevant authorities much faster. this will be done by dividing the external land and sea borders into border sections and by attributing an ‘impact level’ or ‘risk level’ to each section. depending on this level, member states and frontex will follow a step-by-step approach for providing support. it will be up to the national coordination centres to coordinate the support at national level. if that is not enough, member states can ask frontex for more support. this will allow limited resources to be deployed to the hotspots quickly and then redeployed to other hotspots when the situation changes or has improved. so thank you, mr mulder and the other people in the libe committee, for the work you have done.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - madam president, we have all been deeply affected by the tragedy in lampedusa today and we are witnessing a flowery display of statements by the highest officials of the member states while our representatives are being booed on the spot. in this context, and as rapporteur for the budget of eurosur, let me bring to the debate the figures for the coordination and surveillance of the union's external borders. we are committing eurosur to eur 16 million a year from the internal security fund and eur 19 million from frontex, which will also have its budget unchanged compared to the previous multiannual financial framework, and will therefore be cut by eur 19 million from the 80.9 million it has at its disposal. the european union's resources for the surveillance of all its external borders are therefore less than eur 100 million per year out of a budget of eur 142 billion. the member states have given the union neither competence in the treaties for search and rescue at sea nor a significant budget for the surveillance of the external borders. however, in its migration policies, europe still plays a leading role as an outlet for the media lynching of which it is currently a victim, and serves as an alibi for national leaders who seem to forget at home the problems they define in the european council.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the citizens of europe ask me what we are doing to strengthen security in europe today, i reply: 'we have reformed schengen, we have reformed frontex and we have eurosur'. and these tools are, in a way, just as complementary. the eurosur regulation, by setting up a security and information exchange network that is always operational, will enable us to know in real time the situation at our borders. ship reports, cameras and satellites are all tools we can use to better protect our citizens from illegal immigration and cross-border crime. the risk analyses carried out by frontex, in particular the assignment of a risk level to each border change, are a key element in our having a clear picture of the quality of our borders. and it is crucial that when a border is notified as presenting risks, the member state concerned reinforces its controls there with the help of the frontex agency. we must both empower each member state and assume our common responsibility for a european management of our external borders. we cannot accept any border that is broken. however, for this new regulation to make sense and be really effective, we need to go further. the tragedy of lampedusa, which we have already discussed at length, is a stark reminder of this. we must act with ruthlessness and firmness against networks of illegal immigration, and we must do so in cooperation with third countries. i also very much support the european commission's proposal to increase the budget of the frontex agency and i call on all member states to deploy more border guards and resources now. we need more joint operations coordinated by frontex and a larger team of european border guards to strengthen the security of our european citizens.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been years since the european parliament has discussed in plenary the question of the rapprochement of the small independent states of monaco, san marino and andorra with the european union, and i am glad that the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has accepted my request to debate this subject. for the past two years, intense discussions have been taking place behind the scenes at the highest level to examine the options for bringing these states closer to the union. although they are often singled out in taxation or finance debates, these small states have made many efforts to harmonize their legislation with that of the union and to integrate the community acquis. with a population of just 150,000, their small size unfortunately makes these micro-states the forgotten ones of our foreign policy. they are nevertheless an integral part of the european territory with long-standing, intensive and daily cooperation. as a member of parliament from the south of france, i am particularly familiar with the principality of andorra, which is a key partner for the economic and cultural development of the pyrenees. however, many obstacles remain: citizens of these micro-states are still unable to study, work and settle freely in a member state of the union. similarly, their companies cannot export their goods and services freely to our territory, and vice versa. worse still, their students cannot benefit from the erasmus programme where non-european students do. andorra, monaco and san marino have now shown a real willingness to cooperate in removing these obstacles to real european territorial cohesion. san marino will even hold a referendum on october 20 on whether to join the european union. the commission and the eeas have undertaken to draw up a report on the progress of these negotiations. it is important that they meet the deadlines so as not to discourage the enthusiasm of our little neighbours. does the commission think that membership of these micro-states in the european economic area is possible? if not, why? in any case, we must establish balanced, attentive, simple and open cooperation for the benefit of all.
author. - mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, apartheid is the term which, beyond the regime it designates, evokes violence, discrimination and humiliation, and which the then indian prime minister, manmohan singh, chose to use in 2006 to speak of the condition of the untouchables in his country. despite these shocking statements, despite the abolition of untouchability by the indian constitution - written by the untouchable leader dr. ambedkar - despite the laws, 260 million broken men and women suffer daily atrocities with impunity. in india, between 2001 and 2005, three dalit women were raped every day. a crime or offense against a dalit occurred every 18 minutes. although india and pakistan have signed the universal declaration of human rights, millions of their citizens are denied the rights and freedoms it proclaims simply because of their birthplace. the committee on development, which i chair, has wanted to take up this matter again because these caste-based discriminations, besides being humanly unacceptable and contrary to international human rights law, are also a major structural factor in poverty and inequality. apartheid has terrible socioeconomic consequences: denied or withdrawn access to land, denied decent jobs, exclusion from education and health systems, denial of their basic rights by the police and justice services when these do not violate them outright. only 10% of dalit women receive education in this way. it is simply not possible to get out of extreme poverty under these conditions. and india's new emerging power status does not eradicate this phenomenon, quite the opposite. the gap between dalits and non-dalits has been widening since the early 1990s, highlighting the failure of development policies that too often ignore the problem. there is no desire to cast blame on countries which, for some of them, have introduced positive discrimination laws and policies with unfortunately only relative success. it is rather a matter of insisting, at european level, on the need to recognise caste discrimination as a distinct form of discrimination rooted in the social and religious context. it is by considering them as a well-defined group that these victims of caste segregation can be better taken into account in the european union's development programme. this will only make aid more effective. the coherence of external policies with development policy requires not only that we assess the impact of these groups in trade or investment agreements concluded by the european union but, much more importantly, that we include a clause on caste discrimination. the recent events in bangladesh no longer allow us europeans to pretend to be ignorant. european companies are directly or indirectly involved in the enslavement of human beings who are simply born with a bad condition. this is unbearable. political dialogues, trade negotiations, human rights strategies and action plans, bilateral summits, international meetings - all opportunities must be seized and used by the european union to promote joint initiatives to eradicate caste-based discrimination. from one discrimination to another, how can i end my speech without mentioning our own responsibilities in protecting and promoting the rights of discriminated and even ostracized populations on european soil? the dalit, the diaspora in the first place, are discriminated against without regard for frontiers, but also, and above all, the roma community, which in many member states is subject to racism, prejudice, discrimination and exclusion from economic and political life, as well as from the education and health systems. yes, the european union must engage in frank and constructive discussions with third countries to put an end to all forms of discrimination which are a hindrance to development. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of several laws restricting freedom of expression, assembly and association, in particular the law on foreign agents and federal or regional anti-propaganda laws, xenophobic and homophobic attacks and gratuitous violence have increased. the growing disregard for fundamental rights in russia is obvious and very worrying. the law criminalizing homosexual propaganda leads to discrimination against sexual minorities already highly disliked in russia, which is contrary to the european convention on human rights. russia is thus locked in a terrible homophobia. we have no right to remain indifferent. the european union must do more. it is our duty to continue to make the russian authorities aware of the tragic consequences of these laws and to remind them that they must respect their international commitments. it is imperative that the vice-president, the high representative, catherine ashton, and the european external action service engage as often as possible and continuously in a political dialogue on these very serious discriminations.
in writing. this resolution concerns the draft conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement to associate jordan with european union programmes. i wanted to support it because this protocol will help jordan to cope with the influx of syrian refugees and will encourage the reform process under way in jordan, which is beneficial for all its people.
in writing. jordan is one of the european union's preferred partners and the signing of this new agreement will strengthen our political and economic ties. in addition, jordan plays a key role in the management of the syrian humanitarian crisis, allowing the reception of approximately 500 000 refugees on its soil, at the cost of weakening the jordanian economic and social fabric. cities like al-mafraq in the north of the country saw their population double in a very short time. that is why the european union must step up its aid and development programmes for that country.
in writing. i supported this report, by which the european parliament gives its approval to the conclusion of a euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part. the recommendation underlines the importance of providing adequate financial, technical and humanitarian support to jordan. the emphasis is on the impact of the syrian crisis on the jordanian economy and on the number of syrian refugees in jordan, which plays a constructive mediating role in finding a lasting solution to the various conflicts in the middle east. i welcome the adoption of this recommendation by a large majority.
in writing. i welcome the principle of enhanced cooperation with jordan. the recommendation also proposes to provide financial assistance to jordan to help it cope with the influx of syrian refugees. that's a good thing. however, as with all eu-proposed partnership agreements, this cooperation is based on trade liberalisation. the recommendation also welcomes the "real political and economic reforms in the country" initiated by king abdallah ii. this is a real misuse of language: these are only cosmetic and do not in any way call into question the autocratic and regressive character of the jordanian regime. i vote against it.
in writing. jordan has been an advanced partner of the eu since 2010 under the neighbourhood policy. given its efforts and the importance of its role in the region at the present time, i consider that granting jordan the opportunity to participate in eu programmes is a good example of the application of the 'more for more' principle. i therefore supported the text and, as rapporteur for my political group, called on my colleagues to do the same.
in writing. i voted against the recommendation on a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of jordan in union programmes. the explanatory statement for the agreement emphasizes the need to take in syrian refugees who are victims of the war, for which jordan is paying a heavy price, as do most of syria's neighbouring countries and contrary to what is happening in the vast majority of eu countries, this decision is one of the most advanced of the new association agreements of the euro-mediterranean partnership. these new agreements, which also concern morocco and tunisia, among others, are increasingly turning their backs on development policies in favour of free trade policies, which are only for the benefit of the large european companies present there, and to the detriment of the economies and peoples of the countries concerned.
mr president, i too wanted to support the eurosur regulation which we have just approved. i think we are doing a useful job by voting for this regulation. the establishment of a system of surveillance of the external borders of the european union is the beginning of the foundations of a new european policy, it is the re-establishment of european policy on border control, on the treatment of illegal immigration, smuggling networks and networks which bring in, at the risk of their lives, as we tragically saw in lampedusa a few days ago, men and women desperately in search of the european eldorado. it is absolutely vital to strengthen cooperation and the exchange of information between the national services responsible for the surveillance of the external borders, but the necessary money is still lacking today, and this external surveillance must also be increased.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to streamline and strengthen the european union's capacity to control and manage migration flows towards our continent. particular attention is being paid to the mediterranean region, which is experiencing an influx of migrants. unfortunately, recent tragedies have shown how much this surveillance needs to be strengthened.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mulder report, which aims to create a european border surveillance system called eurosur. the establishment of such a mechanism will help to strengthen internal security by preventing the loss of human lives through the fight against illegal immigration. through increased cooperation and a permanent exchange of information between the member states of the union, the migratory flows of those entering the union will be regulated in a way that ensures respect for human rights principles, while contributing to the reduction of cross-border crime and drug trafficking.
in writing. freedom of movement is a chance for europeans. but we must ensure that it ensures the security of our territories and that it is implemented effectively. this is not a question of a single currency, but of a single currency. this text will enable us to strengthen our action at the borders, in particular by improving cooperation between agencies and with our partners in third countries.
in writing. the new european border surveillance system eurosur proposed by the european union should help to enhance the security of migrants while preventing cross-border crime. in practical terms, it will allow eu countries to share real-time images and data on refugee flows at the eu's external borders and thus to more quickly detect and assist refugee boats in distress. the tragedy of lampedusa is a painful reminder of the need for member states to work together to prevent further tragedies. this pan-european system can be a first response. it must be used to save the lives of migrants and its rules must respect human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of strengthening control of the external borders of the schengen area, which would then guarantee full mutual trust between the member states and thus promote free movement within this area. i am in particular in favour of the creation of a common framework clearly defining the responsibilities and powers of the national coordination centres (ncs) responsible for border surveillance in the member states and of the frontex agency, which together form the backbone of eurosur.
in writing. the tragic tragedy of lampedusa is a stark reminder that we must act ruthlessly and firmly against illegal immigration networks, and this in cooperation with third countries. i voted in favour of this report because the creation of the new eurosur system will help to better protect the eu's external borders. if it is not enough on its own, it is at least a step in the right direction. specifically geared towards the surveillance of european borders, this mechanism aims to better combat illegal immigration and criminal networks, which exploit the misery of migrants with disregard for their lives. to send back the image of a 'screwdriver europe' would create an appeal of illusory air. the enhanced coordination between member states and the improved exchange of information provided for by the eurosur system are important progress. we also need to increase the budget for frontex. i call on the member states to deploy more border guards to reinforce the frontex european border guard team.
in writing. just a few days after the tragedy in lampedusa of a boat carrying eritrean and somali refugees, i supported the establishment of the eurosur system to prevent such tragedies, through a better exchange of information which will allow for a quicker determination of the steps to be taken and the responsible state in the event of detection of vessels in distress at sea. i particularly welcome the provisions added by the european parliament on saving the lives of migrants (especially at sea) and on respect for fundamental rights and the principle of non-refoulement as prerequisites for the proper functioning of the system. however, its implementation will need to be closely monitored to ensure that the right to non-refoulement and the right to access asylum procedures are fully respected.
in writing. the tragedy in lampedusa has highlighted a painful but real phenomenon which calls for national and european responses, because the fight against illegal immigration and smugglers cannot be won without european cooperation and cooperation with source and transit countries. the signals we send are fundamental in matters of both criminal policy and access to citizenship. on the national level, we must make our social policies less attractive. the more we show "light-heartedness", the more this phenomenon will increase. at european level, we must recognise that migration policies need to be better coordinated and our actions concerted. in the light of the facts, we must therefore respond with concrete action. that is why i am calling for the creation of a european border police under the aegis of frontex, whose financial resources have collapsed from a budget of 118 million in 2011 to 85 million in 2013, and for the rapid establishment of the eurosur border surveillance system.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague jan mulder. the creation of eurosur is intended to strengthen control of the external borders of the schengen area. it will establish a mechanism for member states' border surveillance authorities to exchange operational information and cooperate with each other and frontex in order to reduce the loss of life at sea and the number of migrants entering the european union illegally, and to strengthen internal security by preventing cross-border crime. eurosur shall start operations on 2 december 2013 in all member states with external borders and shall be operational on 1 december 2014 in the remaining member states. the legislative resolution was adopted by parliament with 479 votes in favour, 101 against and 20 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr mulder's report because, particularly after the recent tragic events in lampedusa, the introduction of a system of border control and a strengthening of security for those eu territories which represent the gateway to europe for migrants are all the more necessary. we have repeatedly stressed, including in the presence of commissioner malmström, the need to tackle this problem once and for all with a truly european and truly supportive approach. it is no longer possible to delegate the resolution of the immigration issue to italy or to the member states bordering the mediterranean alone. it is time for national governments, all those in the european union, to take responsibility and decide to invest in a european border surveillance system that can be effective and prevent further tragic incidents.
in writing. the eurosur border surveillance system is an integrated border management system in cooperation with the frontex agency, to combat migration and cross-border crime. this is an issue that has implications for the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers. from 2 december 2013, southern and eastern member states will set up national coordination centres which will cooperate with frontex through the sharing of real-time information and data (satellite data and ship reports). the inclusion of some of the positive points achieved during the negotiations, such as respect for fundamental rights, the principle of 'non-refoulement' and the protection of personal data, cannot compensate for the vision of a 'fortress europe' criminalising migrants in this text. that is why i voted against the proposal for a regulation establishing the european border surveillance system. the confusion between the fight against cross-border crime and illegal immigration leads to the perception of migrants and asylum seekers as threats to internal security. the 'fortress europe' principle will be reinforced with the electronic system eurosur. and this is extremely costly surveillance and disproportionate to the numbers of so-called irregular migration.
in writing. i voted in favour of the creation of the agency called eurosur, which establishes a mechanism for exchange and cooperation between the authorities of the member states who monitor borders. the new agency complements the role of frontex, the cooperation body for the operational teams of the member states for border surveillance. eurosur shall establish a communication network allowing the exchange of sensitive information in a secure and real-time manner. monitoring tools such as satellites or ship reporting systems will thus be able to contribute to the fight against illegal immigration and the prevention of cross-border crime on a larger scale. eurosur will start operations on 2 december 2013 in the member states with external borders and on 1 december 2014 in the rest of the union.
in writing. the report before us amends the commission's text on the creation of a system for monitoring the eu's external borders: eurosur. the commission's original text was already borrowed from security ideology, and it is even more so in the mulder report. it emphasises the fight against illegal immigration, while remaining silent on the illicit movement of capital and goods. it proposes to create a specific entry illegal immigration in the national situation table. the military is also being asked to participate in the hunt for undocumented migrants. finally, to improve europe's operational efficiency in the pursuit of poverty, it proposes to monitor in particular migrants using 'small boats unsuitable for sea travel'. in the context of the 300 drowned on lampedusa, this report is abject. i vote against it. this monitoring system should instead be ecological and in the general interest rather than a system for hunting down the poor.
in writing. the sinking of the boat carrying african candidates in exile in lampedusa has left a deep impression on the minds and cast doubt on the eu's migration policy. how can we prevent thousands of immigrants, who are being ensnared by unscrupulous smugglers, from dying in their attempt to achieve the utopian european dream? in the first instance, only a pan-european border surveillance system with a rapid response capability will be able to help those who board these makeshift boats. i therefore voted in favour of the operating rules for 'eurosur', a system designed to improve the detection, prevention and fight against illegal immigration and crossborder crime, but also to help migrants in need.
in writing. the free movement of persons is one of the founding principles of the european construction. european citizens have repeatedly demonstrated their commitment to the abolition of border controls, which is one of the eu's greatest achievements. in order to improve the control of the external borders, it is necessary to facilitate the sharing of information and to improve cooperation between member states. i therefore supported the report on the european border surveillance system (eurosur) which aims to strengthen control of the external borders of the schengen area. it will establish a mechanism for member states' border surveillance authorities to exchange operational information and to cooperate better with each other.
in writing. i voted against this european legislation on the eurosur system, the european framework for the surveillance of the eu's external borders. the text agreed between the council and the european parliament strengthens the surveillance of the eu's external borders through the exchange of information and cooperation between member states and frontex. this system also allows cooperation and exchange of information with third countries under certain conditions. the eurosceptic efd mps and those on the far right, including marine le pen and her father, have come together to support this initiative against the rights of foreigners, not hesitating to ignore their primary anti-europeanism in favor of fortress europe and the hunt for immigrants. mrs le pen was thus shameless in contradicting her remarks during the debate on the tragedy of lampedusa on 9 october. despite the deaths of hundreds of migrants near lampedusa on 3 october, it was not possible to make rescue of migrants at sea compulsory. the amendment calling for this was rejected. reference to respect for fundamental rights and data protection is not enough to counterbalance new legislation that continues to strengthen the 'fortress europe'.
in writing. with this agreement in parliament, the union is taking a big step forward in managing its external borders and tackling threats to its security. i welcome today's vote, which gives europe an innovative system for detecting, preventing and combating illegal immigration and crime. the benefits of an internal market, with the disappearance of national borders, require that the security and safety of the union's borders, whether on land or at sea, be strengthened. thanks to the exchange of information in real time between the member states and the authorities responsible for border control with third countries, europe is making a considerable qualitative and operational leap in terms of protecting its territory against all kinds of trafficking. the implementation of eurosur will be effective in december 2013, and i urge that we move quickly to the next stage, namely the pooling of means of monitoring, monitoring and intervention, in order to put an end to the paradox that security is everyone's business, but the tools to ensure it are national.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment of the directive on portable batteries and accumulators containing cadmium. cadmium-containing batteries are harmful to the environment and should be banned so that other types of batteries containing less harmful materials can be used.
in writing. given all the tools, batteries and accumulators we use in our daily lives and which contain batteries and components with cadmium, we must urgently look at their consequences for our health and the environment. i therefore support this text, which takes a preventive approach, while realistically taking into account the pressure that a change in the materials used would put on our companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because ending the derogation for the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for use in cordless power tools will reduce the overall environmental impact, both in terms of avoidable releases of cadmium into the natural environment and in terms of cumulative environmental impacts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will eventually ensure the withdrawal from the market of batteries containing cadmium or mercury, which can pose a risk to consumers' health, especially when they are present in children's toys. the main provisions are to ensure that waste batteries can be easily and gradually removed from end-of-life devices, while placing emphasis on their recyclability. a reasonable transitional period was also found to allow the economic operators involved to adapt to the new measures. this report will thus meet strict and balanced environmental, health and economic requirements.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr vladko todorov panayotov. the report proposes to ban the presence of mercury in button cells, which easily escape the recycling system and thus contribute to pollution of our environment. i welcome the fact that it was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. − directive 2006/66/ec of the european parliament and of the council prohibits the placing on the market of portable batteries and accumulators containing more than 0.002% cadmium by weight. article 4 of that directive provides for a review of the exemption for cordless power tools. i voted in favour of amending the directive to limit the derogation to the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for wireless devices until 31 december 2016, thereby safeguarding the interests of both consumers and producers and ensuring the protection of the environment and human health.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to ban the toxic substance cadmium in portable batteries for cordless power tools such as drills, screws, saws and keys from 31 december 2016. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation. the text also ends the derogation for button batteries to reduce the risk of mercury leakage into the environment.
in writing. the text is designed to strengthen measures to protect the environment and public health. the effects of cadmium and mercury on human health and the environment are well established and well known. but this text does not propose a major breakthrough: cadmium batteries and accumulators are responsible for a small part of the cadmium emissions into the environment. moreover, these batteries are obsolete, replacement materials exist (lithium battery), and are already widely used as replacements. the measure comes after the battle. this is the ecology of the 25th hour. i vote in favour of encouraging these timid advances.
in writing. i voted in favour of this revision, which received the broad support of our assembly. the text ends the exception in the original directive for cordless portable tools in respect of cadmium, a carcinogenic metal which is toxic to the aquatic environment. the revised directive will ban the presence of metal in tools such as drills, screwdrivers or saws from 2017, giving manufacturers time to make a less costly transition. when the ban comes into force, nickel-cadmium batteries will only be allowed in emergency systems, such as alarms, and in medical equipment. in the other products, they will have been gradually replaced by the lithium-ion alternative. parliament also introduced a ban on mercury in button batteries (which are used in watches, toys and remote controls, among other things) from autumn 2015 to help reduce pollution, particularly related to the fact that these batteries easily escape recycling. these changes should enable the eu to innovate in the areas of batteries, materials and recycling, which i welcome.
in writing. twelve years after the events of 11 september and the us war on terrorism, there are still many areas of uncertainty surrounding the question of the cia's secret prisons in europe. the fight against terrorism requires a determined commitment from the european union and its main international partners. it is imperative that the 28 implement effective measures to improve the daily safety of europeans and investigate to rule out any risk of attack. it should be remembered, however, that the european union is a legal area and that its member states cannot act illegally. the member states should therefore investigate the secret cia detention centres on their territory and shed light on possible cases of human rights violations. the commission, as guardian of the european treaties and the european charter of human rights, will have to establish whether cooperation in the cia's detention programmes constitutes an infringement of european law.
in writing. i gave my full support to this resolution, in order to put member states and the european institutions under their obligations to tell the truth about the serious human rights violations linked to the cia programme in europe between 2001 and 2005. the aim here is to denounce any abuse of state secrecy and national security, which constitute serious obstacles to democratic control, particularly in cases where the respect of human rights is at stake. i also regret the clear inaction of the national authorities concerned and of the european institutions to provide full reparation to the victims as soon as possible. the transparency required of the member states and the european institutions is an essential condition for ensuring the full legitimacy and credibility of public action in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, with due respect for fundamental rights and human dignity.
in writing. i supported this resolution. it was important, following the problems encountered in the final report of the temporary committee in 2007, that the report be fair, balanced and accurate. it is also important not to confuse the real issue, namely the cia's rendition program, with the current discussion of the nsa's mass surveillance activities. the european parliament adopted the resolution by 286 votes to 180 with 114 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. this resolution rightly deplores the intolerable and total inertia of the eu institutions and several member states to stop the cia programmes on european territory, and in particular the illegal detention and transfer of prisoners in poland, romania and lithuania. while parliament had already demanded precise explanations a year ago regarding these programmes which violate international law, no explanation was provided by the eu institutions. the report rightly reiterates these demands, which are in line with those of the un. the eu is so quick to lecture the world on human rights, what is it waiting for to stop the violations of human rights committed by the united states of america on its own territory? i regret that this resolution does not propose to stop the negotiation of the transatlantic trade agreement until the illegal practices of the usa have ceased, whether it be the secret prisons of the cia or the spying of the nsa. i shall vote for this resolution, which maintains the pressure against these unacceptable practices.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the illegal activities of the cia (arrests, detentions, torture and transport to guantanamo) on eu territory involving several member states in the early 2000s. the european parliament already took a stand a year ago to make clear recommendations, particularly to the member states, so that justice would finally be done to the victims. the resolution notes that little has changed in the past year. i am glad that the resolution has remained firm despite the efforts of the right wing in this house to distort its content and in particular to remove all reference to the states concerned. it is thanks to the tenacity of a few members who chose to do nothing about this matter that it is possible once again to make the voice of a european parliament that is determined to act and that does not forget the victims heard. no potential threat of terrorism can justify human rights violations, especially when they are the actions of states that claim to be committed to democratic values and human rights.
in writing. cross-border crime is on the rise. the law enforcement authorities in the member states, however, are still struggling to achieve full cooperation. in the face of this dangerous paradox, i supported this resolution which calls for a rationalisation of police cooperation within the union and for it to be brought into line with the lisbon acquis.
in writing. i supported this resolution, implementing the recommendations of the stockholm programme and the commission's communication on the internal security strategy. these provisions aim to make the various arrangements in force for the cross-border movement of information in the union more consistent. this resolution sets out the need for the union to adopt the 'prüm decision' and the european information exchange model (eixm), which set out the precise rules to facilitate such exchanges in criminal investigations. this resolution emphasises crossborder police cooperation and the central role of europol and addresses the fundamental issue of the security of european citizens.
in writing. crossborder cooperation is an essential tool in the fight against serious crime, and the european union has the means to develop a genuinely effective policy of crossborder cooperation in law enforcement matters. today, our regimes are still too fragmented and diverse to be truly effective. it is time to move up the gear and undertake a real fundamental reform to ensure the smooth flow of information needed by law enforcement authorities.
in writing. as we see on a daily basis, the freedom of movement of citizens, which is a symbol of european integration, is now being undermined by the proliferation of europeanised criminal activities. i am thinking of the crossborder crime networks which no longer hesitate to travel throughout europe and diversify their activities (attacks on jewellery shops, burglaries, the butchering of animals, theft of copper on railways, etc.). freedom comes with rights, but these networks take full advantage of a europe that is powerless to pursue these criminals and delinquents, and they happily take advantage of this. the member states must therefore do everything possible, both financially and operationally, to step up the fight against this phenomenon. the exchange of information is the foundation of law enforcement cooperation. we have tools at our disposal, so let's use them to the full so that police and investigative teams can operate effectively in the field.
in writing. this resolution calls on the commission to strengthen crossborder cooperation in law enforcement. the commission proposes to speed up the implementation of the prüm decision. that's a little creepy. it is known that the 'prüm decision' authorises automated access to dna profiles, fingerprints and so on. the resolution itself notes that the implementation of this decision is currently taking place without any monitoring or democratic control by parliament. but she doesn't offer to fix it. some data protection safeguards are well advanced by this resolution. but they are not enough. i vote against it.
in writing. in the face of the continuing human rights violations against people facing caste hierarchy and caste-based discrimination, including denial of equality and access to justice and employment, persistent segregation, and violence against women, there is an urgent need to put pressure on countries that still accept this intolerable discrimination. i therefore wholeheartedly supported the motion for a resolution which condemns these violations of human rights and calls in particular for caste discrimination to be recognised as a form of discrimination in its own right and for the fight against this form of discrimination to be integrated into the work of the european external action service and into the union's trade agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which highlights the cases of caste discrimination still present in the world. the eu, as an institution promoting values and ideals based on freedom, democracy and solidarity, must rightly advocate projects that can help social and cultural development, leading to the gradual elimination of caste discrimination. in this sense, welcoming the draft un guidelines and principles for the effective elimination of discrimination based on employment and descent as a framework for eliminating caste discrimination, i believe is one of the starting points for moving in this direction.
in writing. this resolution proposes a relevant analysis of the caste system. the intentions of the house are laudable: removal of the caste reference on identity cards, fight against discrimination in employment... but i regret that parliament is reduced to multiplying resolutions of good intentions without legislative scope. i am voting in favour, but i wonder what the real impact will be on the policies pursued by the eu and third countries in this area.
in writing. caste discrimination is the exclusion of a section of the population on the grounds of their ethnic or religious origin. caste systems impose a hierarchy or even segregation in society, preventing a lower caste from accessing certain professions, condemning its members to poverty. members of the upper castes remain unpunished when they commit crimes or sexual violence against a member of a lower caste. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission and the eeas to combat this discrimination as well as any other. the european union has also always been involved in the fight against discrimination and for respect for minorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on caste discrimination. the caste system, which is very prevalent in south asia (especially india), also exists in several states in africa and the middle east. the report condemns the continuing violations of human rights against people facing the caste system and caste-based discrimination. such discrimination can take many forms, and includes the denial of equality between people, which prevents, for example, access to justice or employment for discriminated persons. in this report i also supported the proposal to the commission and the european external action service (eeas) to integrate the fight against caste discrimination into the union's legislation, policies and programming documents and to adopt guidelines for their implementation.
in writing. the right to petition is an essential democratic tool, which allows meps to confront reality on issues affecting citizens and also shows that the european parliament is ready to intervene directly to promote and protect citizens' rights. i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft resolution, which takes note of the petitions sent by european citizens and stresses the importance it attaches to human rights, the exercise of european citizenship and the environment, all of which are areas for which i am committed as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague edward mcmillan scott. the right to petition the european parliament is enshrined in article 227 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 44 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. during 2012, 1985 petitions were registered, 577 were declared inadmissible and 5 were brought before the court of justice of the eu. these petitions mainly concern the environment, children's rights, freedom of movement and the right of access to information. the report was adopted by 446 votes in favour, 35 against and 43 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2012. the report notes that while cases of petitions concerning alleged violations of union law in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights indicate incomplete transpositions of union law or its misapplication, many petitions submitted do not fall within the union's competence. to address this, the european parliament should improve online information on its website by making an interactive guide available.
in writing. the european system of petitions serves as a democratic window to an eu that continues to trample on the democratic rights of peoples and the sovereignty of their states. in 2012, the committee on petitions registered a total of 1 986 petitions. but, as a symptom of the kafkaesque way in which the european institutions operate, its effects are infinitesimal, most often consisting of a report from the said committee deploring one or another failure to comply with the rules in force in the field concerned by the petition. the report shows that a large part of the work of this committee was devoted to texts on the concept of 'european citizenship'. the lack of support for this concept on the part of the citizens of the member states is clearer when one observes the little power granted to their representatives. i am voting against, so as not to encourage this absurd gas factory which does not lead to any concrete consideration of the demands of the people, other than those accepted by the eu under its treaties.
author. - mr president, i often agree with mrs de keyser, but not today. today's resolution is directed at the persecution of christians in three very different countries. it makes me uncomfortable. these three countries have one thing in common: the most persecuted believers are muslims. but let's face it, what about the choices we made? in maaloula, syria, the four people who were murdered between 4 and 11 september were mainly victims of a new bloody episode in the battle between extremists close to al-qaeda and the syrian regime, which allowed these abuses to continue for a week and was then able to retake the city with the help of christians. in peshawar, pakistan, the attack appears to have been carried out by pakistani sunni extremists who usually target security forces, shiites and ahmadis. in iran, the case of saeed abedini is indeed symbolic of the persecution of religious minorities and those who dare, even in iran, to change their religion. but this is still a very unique case. so i don't like this choice, which seems to me very ununiversal. that is why we will not be voting on this resolution.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vice-president/high representative, catherine ashton, cannot be here this afternoon. it has asked me to represent it, to speak on its behalf, and on a subject like this which is extremely serious, i am also doing so on my own behalf to share the serious concerns you have expressed in almost every seat in this house, in the diversity of your political commitments. i want to assure you, on behalf of mrs ashton, that she is following very closely the situation of people threatened because of their membership of religious minorities. and that is why i think - and i say this to mrs de keyser, but also to mr poręba and mr lisek - that this point of debate is necessary at this moment, in view of what is happening in the world in general, but also, more specifically and more seriously, in many countries of the near and middle east. the adoption, at the initiative of catherine ashton, last june of new guidelines on freedom of religion or belief reinforced the european union's uncompromising determination to promote and protect this fundamental right and to act, everywhere and at all times, to safeguard this right, as mr posselt made very clear earlier in his recital to the rules of procedure, and i thank him for that. the fight against acts of violence directed against people on the grounds of their religion or belief has been identified in it - and i am referring to this new document - as one of the priority areas for action by the european union. i noted earlier in the debate that mrs mcguinness or mrs jazłowiecka had mentioned it. i also want to say that this is a requirement for us in our external action all over the world, but also, let me say, within the european union, of the 28 countries of the union without exception. i now turn to the situation in the near and middle east and in several countries, which you mentioned earlier, mr president karas. the situation of the christian community in syria is indeed very worrying. it is extremely vulnerable because it is concentrated in strategic geographical areas affected by the fighting, and we know how hard those fighting are. the facts about maaloula are all the more shocking and unacceptable as they have struck a very small community that is not involved in the conflict. the european union has repeatedly called on both sides in the conflict to refrain from sectarian violence and to preserve the syrian tradition of multiethnic and multi-religious coexistence, which you mentioned, madam president. the european union also called on the opposition groups to include all components of syrian society. the european union, more generally, continues to call for a political solution to the syrian crisis - as i recalled yesterday on behalf of the european commission when we were discussing the syrian refugees in this very house during the debate you had - and encourages the holding of a peace conference, geneva ii, as soon as possible, which should be translated into transitional measures leading to a free, democratic and equal syria. in pakistan, the high representative strongly condemned the terrorist attack on worshippers leaving a church in peshawar. it also called on the pakistani government to take the necessary steps to ensure the proper protection of all citizens, irrespective of their religion, and to bring to justice all groups and individuals responsible for this unacceptable act. as regards iran, the pastor abedini, whom you visited, mr president, was sentenced to eight years in prison because of his activities in the underground churches. unfortunately, this is just one of too many cases of discrimination and persecution based on religion or belief. catherine ashton has repeatedly called for freedom of religion or belief to be respected in iran, in accordance with the international obligations incumbent on iran under the international covenant on civil and political rights. while welcoming the positive signals launched by president rouhani, the high representative expressed the hope that these signals would translate into concrete results with a real improvement in the human rights situation in iran. that is what i wanted to say to you on behalf of the vice-president/high representative of the european union on this serious issue of protecting religious freedoms in general and christians in particular. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. that's enough! we have had enough of bombings, mass killings, murders of religious and civilian people, rapes, kidnappings, razed villages, churches and schools destroyed: christians, who are a minority in a number of parts of the world, christians in the east are living in anguish and suffering. the list of countries where persecution of christians is on the increase is growing, not only in maloula in syria, peshawar in pakistan, but also in iran, nigeria, egypt and iraq. the fight for the survival of eastern christians is a fight for religious freedom, freedom of opinion, tolerance and the right to be different. so it is our european values that are undermined whenever religious minorities are attacked, starting with eastern christians. it is essential that the european parliament strongly condemns all the recent violence and persecution against christians and sends a message of solidarity. it is essential that the european community, the international community, should mobilize to ensure that the rights of christians are respected. in the name of our values. in the name of freedom and democracy.
author. - mr president, the situation in sudan is more than dramatic. in this extremely poor country, which has been ravaged by many conflicts, such as the ongoing one in darfur, the population has just taken to the streets in large numbers to protest against the government's decision to raise the prices of oil and gas. the sudanese population, 50% of whom are under 15 years old, lives below the poverty line, while no structural reform of the economy has been undertaken. the gold resources have been mobilized, but nothing has been done in the other mining areas or in the agricultural sector, resources which could eventually make up for some of the loss of oil revenues. what was the government's response to the protests? live ammunition was fired at peaceful protesters, over a hundred of them were killed, mass arrests of opposition figures, human rights defenders, journalists, students. the vast majority of the victims of this terrible repression are young people between the ages of 12 and 25. media is censored, internet access is cut off. in this situation, we do not approve of the decision of the european union not to renew the mandate of its special representative for sudan. europe is making statements condemning the repression, it is allocating over 76 million euros for humanitarian aid but it does not want to be present on the ground to act on the government, to release the hundreds of arrested opponents and to ensure that the humanitarian aid is used properly. meanwhile, the chinese and russians are out there exploiting natural resources under deals that will benefit the criminal president and not the people.
author. - mr president, yes, an unprecedented wave of protests has been shaking sudan since 23 september. the abolition of fuel subsidies with a rise in prices at the pump of over 60% combined with higher food prices - yes, these are imf demands - in a country where the economic and social situation is already dramatic and where secession has only made things worse. sudan has lost 75% of its crude oil production, is experiencing runaway inflation and constant devaluations. instead of cutting military spending, which keeps his authoritarian regime in place, omar al-bashir opted for austerity measures. the regime's response to protest movements is, unsurprisingly, repression: hundreds of deaths, countless arrests, newspapers censored or banned from publication, including those considered close to the government, the shutting down of the internet, the arrest of the main leaders of the opposition parties. since its independence, sudan has only known civil wars and military coups. its population is one of the poorest in the world. yes, his dictator is under an icc arrest warrant which he is making a complete mockery of. i therefore believe that our resolution, which ignores the economic and social issues that are at the root of the protest movements, will be a blow to the head and will serve above all to give us a good conscience. we shall vote for it, but without any illusions about the role of the european union in this matter.
author. - mr president, on the tenth anniversary of the us invasion of iraq, ngos are reporting at least 6,000 deaths since the beginning of the year. recall the level of violence of the civil war of 2005-2008 and the neighboring syrian conflict that only makes things worse. the attacks are almost daily: more than 1,000 deaths in july, 800 in august, 1,000 in september, and 229 since the beginning of october. every day the list grows longer: indiscriminate attacks on markets, cafes, mosques, football stadiums, funerals, and on the unfortunate shiite pilgrims; the attack on erbil, the capital of the kurdish region, on 29 september may raise fears of a new front being opened. the iraqi opponents of camp ashraf are collateral victims, so to speak, of the americans, who left the camp knowing that they were giving them over to the iraqis, and the international community is responsible for having only welcomed a handful of them. what does all this reveal? the only result of the american intervention was the total destabilization of the country. the political system they tried to put in place has failed, and it has only exacerbated religious tensions in both iraq and syria. these are political solutions which must be worked out with all the forces involved.
on behalf of the ppe group. i have heard the news this afternoon, not at 7 a.m., and i simply have two questions. first, the council asks us to draw up a comprehensive package, and now we are drawing up a separate package. but if that's the case, what about the 3.9 billion? i am asking for strict budgetary control. we must not allow this to put us in a position of not strength but weakness tomorrow to negotiate the 3.9 billion. this is not normal! last week, when we met with all the heads of the committee on budgets, there were no problems, not even on saturday. and then today, we're told that we're going to be out of business on november 15th. i'm having a hard time understanding this. i, as the head of the company, would have fired the people responsible!
mr president, the question i have is whether the council has asked you for anything.
mr president, i would like to add a question to that of mr joseph: could you tell the council that if it does not come with the 3.9 billion, we will do nothing. we can tell them right away: this is important, because there's something weird about this story. mr president, you cannot tell me that the commission discovered on friday afternoon that it had no money! you can't tell me the council doesn't know what the situation is. i think someone's fucking with us on this!
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, in the report or part of a report they released on 27 september, the ipcc experts once again drew our attention to the enormous responsibility we had. i fully agree with what our colleague mr kriton arsenis has just said. since copenhagen, we have done, despite the efforts, a lot of on-the-spot work. it is time to move on to proposals which are real, concrete proposals for preparing the paris summit, because we cannot afford another failure after copenhagen. it is therefore imperative that we achieve a clear roadmap and timetable for reduction commitments by all parties by 2015, that is, by 2014. it is also necessary to arrive, as has just been proposed, at a draft negotiating text for 2015 and a structure for the new protocol. if we fail to have some sort of global framework in warsaw this year, it means that we are making it very difficult to have a success in paris in 2015. i also support the proposal made by mr florenz that we should move towards sanctions. we now have enough commitments that are never implemented, and there are no sanctions for failure to implement them. and we have to be ambitious. i am asking - it is a personal request, it is not a request from my group - that we be very ambitious in our demands, with a commitment of 50 percent reduction of emissions by 2030. that means maintaining the level of ambition that we've had so far, and i would say that's not just a climate necessity, but also an economic necessity. i would remind you that our energy bill is 400 billion euros a year and that it is therefore time to get rid of our dependence on co2. i would also say that the major industries of the 21st century will be precisely those which meet the requirements of the energy transition, and we europeans, who were the pioneers in this field, must therefore also remain industrial leaders in all these sectors, in which the countries of the south are today trying to become world leaders. i would also like to point out that we have planned, as mr florenz said, a fund of 100 billion and that perhaps it is time to say how we are going to fill it, because by force, year after year, to refer to innovative financing - a formula which means strictly nothing and which hides the fact that we do not know how to do it - perhaps it is time to tackle this issue. finally, i would like to express my concern that among the sponsors of cop 19 there are companies which are clearly opposed to a reform of the european emissions trading system and to ambitious climate policies. i am also concerned that in parallel with cop 19 the polish ministry of energy is planning to launch, together with the world coal association, a warsaw communiqué which, under the guise of promoting clean coal, sounds like nothing more than a call to keep fossil fuels in our energy mix. i think we're gonna have to be extremely vigilant.
mr president, commissioner, the latest ipcc report confirms the extent to which the risk, the potential drama of climate change is real and how much responsibility we have. we had a report from the world bank a few months ago which spoke of cataclysm. there's only one report from the world bank, from the beginning of its history, that talks about cataclysmic impact, talking about a human phenomenon related to our role, our responsibility, our behavior, our modes of production and consumption: it's the climate report. therefore, warsaw cannot simply be a stopover on the road to paris, to justify the un negotiating process. the un negotiating process is not a simple process, but what we have to challenge here is not the negotiating process, but the lack of ambition of the heads of state and government who have not done enough on climate change for years. we can see this in europe: unfortunately, the heads of state and government are far from being on the same page as the environment committee. do they really think that with coal and shale gas and nuclear, as we see with the recent contracts in britain, we're going to get out of the economic crisis, we're going to get out of the climate crisis? how many reports tell us how tackling climate change can bring us millions of jobs, modernize our economy, get us out of energy dependence? and what will half this parliament, which wants to turn a blind eye to the tragedies of lampedusa, do when millions of climate refugees try to come to europe, because rising waters, weather shocks and reduced agricultural productivity will leave millions, tens and hundreds of millions of them on the planet? at a time when europeans are doubting europe, i believe that the idea of going carbon-free is a good project for europe. we have made europe about peace amongst ourselves, let us now make europe about peace with the planet and show how much we have a story to tell about the climate, about purchasing power, about reducing our energy consumption, how we can change the lives of millions of europeans around the fight against climate change, and all the benefits that this can bring us. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is "blue cardboard". thank you. it's always interesting to see that, regardless of the unanimity or the consensus of the entire international scientific community, in the end, the discussions you have in the pub at home seem much more important. ninety-five percent of scientists say that global warming is man-made and that its consequences can be absolutely devastating. so, faced with this level of threat, the responsibility of policymakers like you and me, sir, is to take the steps that allow us to avoid catastrophe, not just sit around and think that our children and grandchildren will live badly, but that ultimately it's not our responsibility anymore.
madam president, i apologize for the delay. one month before the big climate conference in warsaw, commissioner, it is now the moment of truth for policy makers and for all citizens of this earth. the commitment has been made by the entire planet to fight global warming and to keep it below 2 degrees. we must now act, as my colleague karl-heinz florenz has rightly said, and implement this commitment. we can now see that the world is beginning to move: the european union has set up a european co2 market which is increasingly serving as a model, whether in the united states or even in china, with some preliminary steps. we must therefore strengthen the european emissions trading system and link it to other developing systems. through these market mechanisms, we will launch a real global momentum to strengthen green growth. it is also clear that the aviation and maritime transport sectors cannot remain outside the efforts to be made. europe must therefore come to warsaw with an ambitious road map. however, this roadmap must also be realistic and not hesitate to ask the right questions. so the european union must be very clear about this: if the international community fails to reach an international agreement binding on all parties by the paris meeting at the end of 2015, the union will have to put in place a carbon-inclusion mechanism at the borders; i am referring to a carbon tax at the european union's borders, to tax products from countries that are not making the necessary efforts. if international negotiations fail, the european union, in agreement with the wto, will have to restore fair competition between those who want to protect the planet and those who do not take into account the consequences of climate change. that is the message, commissioner, that the european parliament and the european union in general must send: we must be ambitious and realistic.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, this report is, of course, in my view a major step forward in the european union's trade policy. i hope it marks the end of a naive europe. the regulation should enable the european union to defend itself swiftly against states that do not respect their trade obligations. this is an important step, as we currently have to go through the codecision procedure to take retaliatory action, when we are allowed to do so. a simple delegated act will suffice from now on. this is an important step, because it shows our trading partners that we can react, and quickly. it is ultimately as much an instrument of retaliation as of deterrence. i should like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done and for enriching the commission's proposal. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. this is an important step forward because, indeed, in the face of a country like singapore - whose trade is mainly in services - what other sector could we have effectively retaliated against if we had not included services in this report? as such, i would like the european commission to consider whether it is appropriate to extend the scope of the regulation to intellectual property rights further when assessing the effectiveness of the text. another step forward which i believe is essential is the information of the european parliament. in our quest for transparency, it seems to me unthinkable that parliament should not be properly informed at all stages of the procedure. this is all the more important given the political consequences that retaliatory measures can have. i shall not go into more detail than that, except to recall the excellent balance we have achieved in the committee. for this reason, i do not want this text to be amended again. i think that the proposal as amended in the committee is an excellent mandate for trilogue negotiations.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am pleased to be able to present to you today this report on the monitoring of trade in drug precursors between the european union and third countries. we are indeed fortunate to have been able to reach agreement with the council and the commission quickly. the result of this trilogue agreement seems to me to be excellent. drug precursors are legal substances that can be used to synthesise drugs. for example, vinegar is used in the manufacture of heroin. in order to combat drug trafficking, it is important to be able to monitor the trade in precursors. the fewer precursors that are easy to divert from the legal market, the fewer synthetic drugs that are available. the challenge is therefore to find a balance in the monitoring of these substances without hindering the market. the current regulation is flawed and this is why the european commission has proposed a revision. we have found that drugs containing drug precursors are not subject to special controls and can therefore be easily misused. this is particularly the case with cold medicines, which contain ephedrine and pseudoephedrine. both substances are controlled drug precursors because they are essential for the manufacture of methamphetamines. drug dealers have been diverting drugs that they themselves have not been monitoring. rather than creating a separate system for cold medicines, we created a new category of controlled substances. they're called classified substances. in other words, it will take only a delegated act to add a new drug to the list if it is discovered that it is being misused to synthesise illicit substances. this allows for a rapid response to new drug trafficking trends without hampering the drug trade. only those whose precursor substance can be easily extracted from the medicinal product may be included among the classified substances. however, at present only medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine meet this criterion. to those who say that we should not impede the trade in medicines because it is vital for underdeveloped populations, i would like to say that at the moment the only medicines subject to controls are comfort medicines, since they treat exclusively colds. in addition, the substances to be included in this new category, including medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudo-ephedrine, will be subject to a very light and very low-cost pre-export notification requirement. according to the impact study, this cost is about eur 15. in the long term, it is entirely possible to include other medicines in this very flexible category if the need arises. moreover, since the revision of this regulation is also an opportunity to adapt the comitology to the lisbon treaty, we felt that implementing acts, under the examination procedure, were the most appropriate, but i would like to remind you that this should not be a precedent in the negotiations between the council and the european parliament, particularly on other subjects. in conclusion, i would like to highlight the excellent cooperation between the various political groups and i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs for the confidence they have shown in me throughout this legislative process. i would also like to thank the council and the commission for the quality of our exchanges. i thank you, of course, for your attention and look forward to any comments you may have.
the rapporteur. - mr president, since this report seems to be more or less consensus, i should like to thank very briefly all my colleagues who have contributed to this debate, as i said earlier, and the commission. i think we all understood the purpose of this report, which was to deal effectively but above all responsively with these precursors to drugs, because we are dealing with drug traffickers who are dangerous people. i therefore hope that when this report is put to the vote, it will be adopted by the greatest possible unanimity. anyway, thank you for your contributions, everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech i shall speak only of the sahel, since the report deals with that region of the sahel. human rights in the sahel region are a vast subject, ladies and gentlemen. the sahel is made up of five countries, eighty million inhabitants - more than half of whom are under eighteen - children, women who are starving, trafficking in all its forms, a breeding ground for terrorism, human rights violations and slavery. i am proud that the european parliament has taken up this subject and that we have been able, thanks to the report, to contribute to proposing political, humanitarian and future solutions in this area of lawlessness. i congratulate the rapporteur on his work, on the energy he has put into the drafting of his report, and all our assistants. i remain convinced that economic, human and social growth in the sahel region is possible. the sahel is rich in natural resources. it is not without prospects for economic development, if the people perceive the benefits of business investments. the sahel is at our doorstep, ladies and gentlemen.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, the issue of human rights is one of the major struggles of the european parliament and the european union as a whole. i regret, however, that under the cover of the human rights situation in the sahel, morocco is once again being singled out by some in this parliament. for example, almost a third of this report is now devoted to western sahara. let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that morocco is one of the only countries to have pursued a genuine development policy in its sahel-saharan region, to have developed a strong and respectable rule of law, which has helped to stem the rise of terrorism in that region. the whole of our international community condemns the defeat of the rule of law as a vector of terrorism, and yet some members of the european parliament turn a blind eye to what the kingdom of morocco has achieved. the text adopted by the committee on foreign affairs is generally positive and must remain so. i therefore call on my colleagues to reject the amendments tabled in plenary, in particular the one calling for the rejection of the future fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco. i would also like to ask you, commissioner, what you think about this.
mr president, at a time when young europeans are looking for their first job, the record of their integration into the labour market is alarming, and the link between young people and the labour market is fragile and terribly inadequate. how can we enable the new generation to thrive in a challenging and demanding economic environment by working together to build a successful european school system? twenty-three per cent of the unemployed are under 25 and there are two million unfilled jobs in europe. this shows that the various national education models do not take sufficient account of the requirements, needs and developments in the world of work. the codes have been upended in recent years. in their lifetime, future generations will no longer know one profession, but many. mobility, language skills, common certification framework, vocational training, lifelong learning, the priorities are identified. although the organisation of educational programmes is a matter for the member states, europe has a role to play in giving them the tools to work together towards a common future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is an opportunity for us as members of the european parliament to remind the member states of the place and the resources given to education and training in europe. it contains relevant proposals concerning the participation of vulnerable groups in the education system. the acquisition of foreign languages, teacher training, but also adult education, which remains the poor relative of the education sector, with a rate of less than 9% in europe. this report also provides us with an opportunity to recall the importance of the effective implementation of the youth guarantee, the success of which depends on the funding allocated to it, which must be commensurate with the needs, and on the quality of the partnerships established with the education sector, training bodies, public employment services and youth associations. i regret, however, that the rapporteur has wished to emphasise the importance of public/private partnerships in redefining the content of education. education is indeed everyone's business. we should rather encourage cooperation with associations, teachers, professionals and ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, the two proposals on medical devices and in vitro diagnostics that we are debating today are of the highest importance for patient safety. current legislation has shown shortcomings far beyond the pip breast implant scandal. this was a case of fraud which, even with the toughest pre-market controls, could not have been prevented. but we need better clarity for innovative and borderline products. we need stricter requirements for notified bodies and for their oversight of manufacturers. without changing the law, unannounced audits will not become obligatory. with such unannounced audits, even the pips scandals – though it was a case of fraud – would have been detected much earlier. these are just a few examples of why the revision is needed – and it is needed urgently in order to fully restore the trust of patients, consumers and healthcare professionals in the regulatory system. for this reason, let me thank the rapporteurs, ms roth-behrendt and mr liese, together with the shadow rapporteurs, for their determination, expertise and personal commitment towards advancing these two important files. i will not explain to you the details of the commission’s proposals again, as you are well aware of them. instead, let me address two key elements which have been subject to particularly intensive discussions over the last couple of months, including in parliament. as regards the system for the approval of devices, the commission’s proposal was to maintain a system of self-certification by the manufacturer in the case of low risk – and of verification by notified bodies in the case of medium-risk – medical devices. in high-risk cases, the commission has proposed allowing public authorities to have a second look at the assessment by the notified bodies in specific cases, for instance where the product is particularly innovative or where particular problems have occurred with the category of products. this was meant as an exceptional safeguard. in fact, our impact assessment assumed that something like 50 products would be scrutinised per year. different changes have been proposed in your committees. i have no problem accepting that the commission proposal can be improved. it may not have considered sufficiently, for example, how to ensure the necessary technical and scientific expertise for the scrutiny, but overall i believe that the scrutiny procedure, as a form of exceptional safeguard, is the best compromise to ensure a high level of patient safety while avoiding two burdensome processes. for the reprocessing of single-use medical devices, i strongly believe that we need european rules that fill the current regulatory gap. the commission has proposed strict rules on reprocessing based on the latest scientific evidence. it would allow the practice of reprocessing to develop further under clear and safe conditions, leading to potential savings for healthcare systems. i have followed attentively the different ideas that have been put forward in parliament on reprocessing, and i am, of course, open to carefully analysing the amendments you will be voting on after this debate in order to see whether they would further improve patient protection. apart from these issues, there are many other suggestions from parliament which i am happy to consider favourably. you propose, for example, strengthening the provisions on ethics committees or on minors and incapacitated patients. i am open to these changes, as long as they remain in line with the provisions that are currently being negotiated in the context of the proposed regulation on clinical trials on pharmaceuticals. similarly, there are a number of specific issues on the proposal concerning in vitro diagnostics which, in my view, are also valid and acceptable in principle. this concerns, for example, in-house exemption and counselling and informed consent in the field of genetic tests. i am very interested now in hearing your views on these, as well as on other issues on which you think the commission proposals need to be improved. i cannot give you a final position on all details, but i will commit myself to carefully analysing all the amendments you adopt on both of these proposals. my guiding principle will be the aim of ensuring the highest level of patient and consumer safety, whilst making sure that innovation continues to flourish. i count on you to give a strong mandate to the rapporteurs, ms roth-behrendt and mr liese, which will pave the way for successful negotiations, so that together we can deliver for citizens by concluding these important files within the current parliamentary term.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to welcome the commission's intention to regulate medical devices in order to respond to the health safety issues and developments in this sector. i would like to welcome the work of the rapporteurs and the non-rapporteurs on a text which proposes clarification of the obligations of manufacturers, which sets up notified organisations, which provides for product vigilance and monitoring, which also introduces traceability coupled with a european database which will allow for a more precise monitoring of signals across europe and, where appropriate, to coordinate the action of public authorities. we do not want to relive the breast-processing scandal, which has led to divergent recommendations throughout europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the consumer is based on the recommendations of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. on the one hand, there is the problem of reprocessing: this practice must be regulated, which must be the responsibility of the states, and it does not seem possible to provide that all devices are reusable. the committee also supported the principle of a collegial and public evaluation of innovative devices with risks. the envi committee has taken a case-by-case approach to a wider field, and i still think it is essential to provide legal predictability to manufacturers. we must ensure that we do not choke off innovation in one of the most promising sectors for growth. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr peter liese, on the way he has managed genetic testing, particularly self-testing, by providing more information, prior consent and guidance to patients, knowing that the results of these tests can have important consequences for them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products is not compromised. this revision responds in part to the concerns we expressed in our parliamentary resolution on the pip prosthesis scandal on 14 june 2012. however, it does not take into account patient safety and public health. that is why i fully supported my colleague, mr dagmar roth-behrendt, in his desire to reorganise the text to put patient safety back at the heart of the regulation. as regards the prior authorization of the placing on the market of class 3 implantable medical devices, i have supported the proposals made by mrs roth-behrendt from the outset. to reach a consensus, it was forced to weaken its initial position, even to deviate from it completely. i regret that, because the compromise reached is not enough. it proposes a non-systematic and non-binding control mechanism. i would have preferred a systematic, independent, prior evaluation. but we shall vote for this compromise anyway, because it is the least bad solution. as for the possible reprocessing of single-use medical devices, i am not in favour of this, as it may expose patients to health risks. furthermore, its profitability is not proven. it would therefore be preferable for member states wishing to do so to be able to benefit from a derogation allowing them to prohibit reprocessing at national level.
mr president, it is true that in recent years there have been a great many safety problems with medical devices involving risks, the most publicized of which was the pip. this scandal broke in 2010 and it was, it's true, a fraud by the industrialist. but contrary to what mr krahmer said, we found that there was a faulty chain of responsibility, too many links of which had allowed the fraud to go on far too long. the national authorities and notified bodies have shown intolerable negligence. in this context, we adopted a resolution in june 2012 and our group, the greens, introduced a system of prior marketing authorisation for class 2b and 3 medical devices that went further than the rapporteur's proposal. i regret that this system has not been included by the commission in its legislative proposal. there is a paradox, however, in that there are marketing authorizations for medicines, whereas there are no marketing authorizations for high-risk medical devices, for everything related to implants. it's still pretty aberrant that we haven't gotten to that system. today, a system of special notified bodies is proposed which are indicated for devices at risk, with increased control of their work by the authorities. this is a minimum, an acceptable minimum, and it must not be weakened any further. i am quite satisfied, however, that we have obtained a comparative clinical evaluation against existing treatments for the same indication, whether medical devices or drugs, as well as the evaluation of clinical data for high-risk medical devices. we think it's essential before it's on the market. finally, we were able to call for a ban on all carcinogens, mutagens and reproductive toxicants. at present, they are banned for cosmetics and toys, and we are now calling for them to be banned for medical devices as well.
mr president, pip breast implants and defective hip replacements are all scandals which have seriously damaged the confidence of patients and which make it our duty today to combine safety with innovation, because patients are in dire need of industrial progress. we've had some fraud, due to flaws in the medical device approval system. this is a simple ce marking, the same as that required for the approval of toasters. these frauds clearly show that this marking has serious shortcomings. so today, to restore the trust of users, we must first be extremely rigorous about the accreditation criteria of notified bodies, which we must strengthen. it is true that a marketing authorization should not have been imposed, because it is too long and too cumbersome a procedure which would have hindered innovation. restoring trust also involves random unannounced audits and sanctions, such as suspension or removal. and above all, the reprocessing of single-use devices must be avoided at all costs. i am absolutely convinced that the single-use medical device provides greater safety than sterilized and reconditioned equipment. there is far too much diversity in the member states in this respect. in conclusion, i would say that what we absolutely need is very strict material surveillance, just as we have pharmacovigilance for medicines.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i would first like to thank anne jensen for her excellent cooperation in this difficult task. the 2014 budget will be the first application of the union's multiannual financial framework as it is about to be adopted, but, down by 6% compared to 2013, it has no margin and all its lines are under constraint. in this multiannual financial framework, parliament's priorities are, i would remind you, youth employment, education, training, research, innovation, small and mediumsized enterprises, investment in infrastructure projects, and these are precisely the lines which have been subjected to negative arbitration by the council and which we have tried to re-establish with our limited resources. the situation is all the more complex as more than half of the budget will be used to pay off old programmes and there will be a budgetary impasse on payments of more than 20 billion in 2014. the commission's proposal is, as our rapporteur has said, reinstated by parliament's proposal. it goes beyond this, in the absence of any residual margin, by using the flexibility instrument very sparingly. the pre-financing of measures related to youth employment in 2014-2015 as decided in the negotiations on the financial framework is only a temporary measure. unfortunately, youth unemployment is likely to reach new highs in two years' time, when the funds available to us will have been reduced. how does the council envisage the future of europe? he's always giving him new skills while reducing his resources. who can do more with less? no one is! the recent migration issue is a tragic example of this. we have been in an economic and financial crisis since 2008, and far from offering new prospects for europe, the new financial framework, with this 2014 budget, illustrates that it is taking us into six years of european recession. it is said that euroscepticism is growing in europe, but i fear that the most eurosceptic people are now in the council.
in writing. the current negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff) should be mentioned in this debate. member states must keep their word and respect the reasonable conditions they agreed to in june: close the payment gap for 2013, adapt the legal bases of the cap and cohesion policy, set up a working group on own resources and propose a 2014 budget with jobs and growth as priorities. on the latter point, while investment both public and private is still at a standstill, proposing to reduce heading 1a, 'competitiveness for growth and jobs', by 9.3% in payments compared to 2013, as the commission did in june, was already hardly acceptable. but the fact that the council is proposing to reduce this envelope by more than 400 million is simply unacceptable. the same applies to the structural funds and cohesion policy: - 9.3% in the commission proposal, that is still 200 million too much for the council! it is now up to parliament to send a signal to the council by adopting a budget which reflects the economic and social realities in europe.
madam president, my motion for a resolution is based on rule 159 of our rules of procedure. a request for referral to committee has been made. you objected to the decision of the president of this house not to discuss this motion for referral back to committee. but the decision of the president of this house cannot override the perfectly clear text of the rules of procedure. from the moment this motion was put to you, it had to be put to the vote and then put to the vote. what follows, which violates this policy, is completely illegal.
madam president, i would like to say publicly that the presidency has shown a real ostracism on the estrela report. you have systematically given the floor to the right-wing people and when we asked for the floor to make a recall to the rules, you refused. that is not acceptable.
in writing. i supported this report. council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 of 30 november 2009 provides for tariff preferences for the western balkans, but does not apply to imports of wine. stabilisation and association agreements or interim agreements with several western balkan countries allow for specific tariff quotas for these countries in respect of wine. kosovo has not signed such an agreement and can only benefit from the global tariff quota. the proposed regulation therefore aims to allocate a specific tariff quota to kosovo (to be deducted from the global tariff quota) in order to develop its potential for exporting wine to the union. i welcome the adoption of this report by a large majority.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on tariff quotas for wine, which makes a technical amendment by allocating to kosovo a specific tariff quota of 20 000 hectolitres for wine, which is deducted from the overall quota of 50 000 hectolitres for wine from the western balkans on the union market.
in writing. the report aims to give kosovo the same trade preferences for wine exports to the union as those already granted to the balkan countries. these preferences are granted under the stabilisation and association process linking these countries to the union. in general, the trade liberalization promoted by this process is harmful in the absence of social, ecological and health harmonization of production conditions. this is particularly the case with wine. its production conditions can be bad from an ecological point of view, harmful to the health of citizens (exposure to pesticides) and to local quality products which are dumped. i therefore oppose this text on principle, which contributes a little more to the liberalization of trade without compensation. i believe that the whole of the union's trade policy should be reviewed in the direction of solidarity-based and ecological protectionism. as regards kosovo in particular, i regret that the union has embarked on an association process with that territory, which is not internationally recognised as a state. i am therefore also opposed to this text because it is part of the union's recognition of a so-called state, which is in reality only a belt around the most powerful us military base in europe.
in writing. although kyrgyzstan is not a member of the european union, its strategic role for the european union and the need to ensure stability in the region fully justify this assistance. this strong gesture shows that the good economic and financial health of this country is therefore in the common interest of the eu and the kyrgyz republic.
in writing. i voted against the proposal to reject the council's position, which would have called into question the negotiations led by my colleague vital moreira to offer macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic of eur 30 million.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report granting eur 30 million in macrofinancial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. half of this aid will be granted in the form of grants and half in the form of loans. the kyrgyz economy experienced a significant growth slowdown in 2009, and the european commission concluded that there was a significant need for external financing.
in writing. i welcome the will to fight fraud and corruption in this part of the world. in fact, it is a flimsy excuse. the conditionality of aid to the proper respect of the neoliberal doxa is otherwise much more consistent. she's not eligible. the macrofinancial assistance (mfa) must be 'compatible with the economic programme supported by the imf', all under regular monitoring by the commission and the imf to ensure 'compliance with the structural adjustment steps'. the european union has been the imf's watchdog in its neighbourhood since 2007, with the establishment of the amf. in 2011, the union was bleeding the georgian people, now it's kyrgyzstan's turn to complete the series. the fact that the rapporteur, the social democrat vital moreira, will also be in charge of monitoring the large transatlantic market does not bode well. i vote against it.
in writing. i have today approved the two reports on the updating of the regulations on medical devices. at the end of 2011, the pip breast implant scandal revealed the lack of cooperation between member states and the malfunctioning of the medical device traceability system. more than 400 000 breast implants from the french company pip have been marketed worldwide despite non-compliance with quality criteria. today parliament has voted in favour of new requirements: to improve patient protection by strengthening traceability and controls to prevent a new scandal of this kind. this includes improving access to clinical data to improve product knowledge, the creation of an 'implant card' for implant recipients and greater information sharing between national authorities. i have a concern about the issue of accessibility of high-risk tests: the new legislation should not restrict the possibilities for member states to make tests (including hiv testing) more easily available to the public (including high-risk tests).
in writing. with this text, we can look forward to strong european ambitions to improve the health and safety of all european patients using in vitro testing. the text provides for the harmonization of the rules for these tests within the european union, for greater transparency, in the service of protecting the health of europeans.
in writing. the pip breast prosthesis scandal has highlighted the shortcomings of the european medical device control system. unlike medicines, these products do not require prior authorisation from a health authority, so it is essential to develop stricter certification rules that put patient safety first. with the revision of this system, the most risky medical devices - such as those intended to be implanted in the human body - will now be controlled by specialised bodies. access to clinical data on devices will allow for better market surveillance. when an incident occurs in one country, an early warning system will facilitate a rapid response in other european countries. the reprocessing of certain single-use medical devices may expose patients to health risks. this practice is now banned in france and other countries may do the same. the safety rules for in vitro diagnostic devices will also be strengthened by the establishment of an ethics committee. these new measures will restore consumer confidence in the sector, while preserving its capacity for innovation.
in writing. the vote on these texts on medical devices and on in vitro diagnostic medical devices is important as they will have direct repercussions on european public health and thus on the daily lives of eu citizens. in the wake of the series of health scandals, including the pip breast implant case, it seems to me essential that the new legislation address the current gaps, strengthen consumer protection and restore patient confidence in medicine. the texts i voted for support stricter measures in terms of monitoring, certification and traceability of medical devices. the controls will now be much more stringent for in vitro diagnostic medical devices and others. we have also decided to regulate the reprocessing of single-use devices in order to improve patient safety.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague peter liese which sets high safety and public health standards for in vitro medical devices and the notified bodies responsible for monitoring these medical devices. we voted against restrictions on self-testing which would have made it available only on prescription. the text also incorporates provisions adopted for the regulation on clinical trials in negotiation courts. i therefore welcome its very wide adoption by 525 votes to 21, with 132 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on in vitro diagnostic medical devices which introduces stricter rules on genetic testing, which must be supervised by doctors or by persons qualified under national law and be carried out after explicit information and consent. i voted against limiting self-diagnostic tests to prescription only. i believe that the hiv test, for example, should be available from a non-profit organization without a prescription.
in writing. in vitro medical devices are medical devices intended for diagnostic use outside the human body, i.e. in a laboratory or in the vicinity of the patient. they cover a very wide range of tests, such as self-diagnostics for blood sugar measurement, hiv tests and dna tests. the report proposes a number of improvements. a new risk classification system is proposed. the market surveillance and vigilance system will be strengthened. the unannounced inspections of enterprises will be mandatory. the report also allows the establishment of a network of european reference laboratories. the report ignores the crucial question of the social and ecological conditions under which these medical devices are produced. in the absence of such social harmonisation, the free movement of medical devices increases the risks of relocation of manufacturers. france is highly exposed to this since it already imports 55% of the medical devices consumed. however, its production capacity continues to decline, as shown by the closure of the sodimedical plant. i am voting in favour, to support the regulatory advances in product regulation. but i deplore a further step in the liberalisation of the goods market to the detriment of workers and the aim of relocating production as close as possible to their consumption.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report updating an earlier directive on in vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivds). these devices are intended to be used for diagnostic purposes outside the human body, i.e. in a laboratory or at the patient's bedside (self-diagnostics for measuring blood glucose, hiv tests, dna tests, etc.). the current directive does not guarantee that poor quality ivd medical devices are excluded from the market. however, since these products can circulate freely in the holy and sacred common market, it seemed important to remedy the current shortcomings. the market surveillance and vigilance system will now be strengthened, with mandatory unannounced inspections. the report also introduces the concept of 'informed consent' as a condition for tests, including prenatal or genetic tests: from now on, appropriate genetic counselling will have to be systematically offered to inform patients of the consequences before the test is carried out. as with the roth-behrendt report, i will remain vigilant with the eug in the forthcoming negotiations with the council on this directive.
in writing. i have today approved the two reports on the updating of the regulations on medical devices. at the end of 2011, the pip breast implant scandal revealed the lack of cooperation between member states and the malfunctioning of the medical device traceability system. more than 400 000 breast implants from the french company pip have been marketed worldwide despite non-compliance with quality criteria. today parliament has voted in favour of new requirements: to improve patient protection by strengthening traceability and controls to prevent a new scandal of this kind. this includes improving access to clinical data to improve product knowledge, the creation of an 'implant card' for implant recipients and greater information sharing between national authorities. i have a concern about the issue of accessibility of high-risk tests: the new legislation should not restrict the possibilities for member states to make tests (including hiv testing) more easily available to the public (including high-risk tests).
in writing. the breast implant scandal is 500,000 prostheses worn worldwide, 8,000 implants withdrawn, 48 confirmed cases of cancer. these many tragedies have forced us to review these texts, which directly affect the health of europeans, in depth. we have responded to the european commission's first failure by its slowness and then by its initial proposals which were inadequate in terms of public health and safety. initially, we had argued for a marketing authorisation for high-risk implantable medical devices. our proposal was supported by the greens and the gue, but it did not survive the very strong opposition of the right, the liberals and the conservatives. the changes introduced are still progresses which i welcome.
in writing. i voted for greater transparency and traceability of medical devices, and better access to information for patients. this is a significant step forward for european public health and for increased patient safety.
in writing. the pip breast prosthesis scandal has highlighted the shortcomings of the european medical device control system. unlike medicines, these products do not require prior authorisation from a health authority, so it is essential to develop stricter certification rules that put patient safety first. with the revision of this system, the most risky medical devices - such as those intended to be implanted in the human body - will now be controlled by specialised bodies. access to clinical data on devices will allow for better market surveillance. when an incident occurs in one country, an alert system will facilitate a rapid response in other european countries. the reprocessing of certain single-use medical devices may expose patients to health risks. this practice is now banned in france and other countries may do the same. the safety rules for in vitro diagnostic devices will also be strengthened by the establishment of an ethics committee. these new measures will restore consumer confidence in the sector, while preserving its capacity for innovation.
in writing. the vote on these texts on medical devices and on in vitro diagnostic medical devices is important as they will have direct repercussions on european public health and thus on the daily lives of eu citizens. in the wake of the series of health scandals, including the pip breast implant case, it seems to me essential that the new legislation address the current gaps, strengthen consumer protection and restore patient confidence in medicine. the texts i voted for support stricter measures in terms of monitoring, certification and traceability of medical devices. the controls will now be much more stringent for in vitro diagnostic medical devices and others. we have also decided to regulate the reprocessing of single-use devices in order to improve patient safety.
in writing. following several scandals, such as the pip breast prosthesis scandal, it became urgent at european level to review the existing rules on medical devices. that is why i voted in favour of this report, to avoid any further tragedies which seriously endanger the health of citizens. despite intense industry lobbying, i supported the introduction of a marketing authorisation for high-risk implantable medical devices. these high-risk products implanted in the body should only be ce marked under strict conditions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, dagmar roth-behrendt, which lays down important rules on the post-market surveillance of medical devices and on the notified bodies responsible for carrying out such surveillance. these rules will prevent a new fraud like the one carried out by pip from occurring in europe. i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. medical devices are instruments or devices which are intended to alleviate a disease or compensate for a disability without pharmacological means. they represent about half a million different products, from adhesive bandages to x-ray equipment. the 25 000 european medical technology companies employ more than half a million people and filed more than 10 000 patent applications in 2012. in response to the proliferation of incidents, such as the pip prosthesis scandal, the european parliament has revised existing legislation. i voted in favour of this text because it improves information and health protection for patients, as well as the traceability of medical devices, without hampering innovation. we have extended the legislation to include cosmetic devices (implants, lenses for aesthetic purposes). we have also tightened up the controls. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. innovative risk devices or devices which have caused incidents in the past will have to be authorised by independent european experts before being placed on the market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on medical devices to improve the safety of european patients. the current texts, although revised in 2007, are outdated by technological and scientific progress. in addition, the news on breast implants and defective hip prostheses has highlighted the need to strengthen the conformity assessment of devices, to improve transparency and access to information for healthcare professionals and patients, and to strengthen traceability: this will be implemented through the vote of this text. this regulation covers many products such as dressings, optical lenses, contact lenses, pacemakers, pregnancy tests, breast implants, etc.
in writing. the regulation has the merit of specifying the standards governing medical devices. the provisions against fraud have been tightened. member states are invited to provide for and enforce severe penalties. 'aesthetic devices' are added to the scope of the regulation. the report prohibits misleading statements and calls for the principle of free and informed consent to be respected. again, the report does not address the crucial question of the social and ecological conditions under which these medical devices are produced. in the absence of such social harmonisation, the free movement of medical devices encourages the relocation of manufacturers. france is a major player: it already imports 55% of the medical devices it consumes. yet its productive capacity continues to decline, despite its productive and intellectual capacities. i vote for these legislative advances. but i deplore a further step in the liberalization of the market at the expense of workers and the objective of relocating production.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which allows for increased controls on medical devices such as breast implants or hip replacements. these measures are aimed in particular at drawing lessons from the scandal of defective breast implants by the french company pip. an estimated 500,000 women worldwide wear ppe without the tools to prevent, trace and identify potential victims. the text adopted aims to harmonise the interpretation of the current rules, to further protect public health, to provide a framework for the risk assessment of medical devices, to improve the transparency of information given to patients and to strengthen the rules on traceability.
in writing. the pip breast prosthesis scandal and the lack of vigilance highlighted by the metal-for-metal hip prosthesis case led meps to press the european commission to revise the directives on medical devices. the negotiations were tough, and i would have liked to see the most high-risk medical devices systematically and in advance assessed through independent collegial expertise. but because the establishment of a new group of bodies designated by the european medicines agency to assess in advance devices considered to be high risk is still a step forward for patient safety, i supported this report. as regards single-use devices, it was to regulate reprocessing practices that had become too common in europe that it became urgent to address this issue in european legislation. single-use devices will be listed and it will be possible, after a scientific evaluation, to remove a device from this list so that its reprocessing is allowed. however, the possibility for member states to prohibit the reprocessing of single-use medical devices has been maintained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on medical devices. 'medical device' means all healthcare instruments, from simple dressings to more complex tools such as pacemakers, hip replacements and breast implants. after a series of health-related revelations, including the pip case and the hip replacement scandal, we in the gue group had to be particularly vigilant. the legislative report, if approved by the council, will lead to greater transparency in the process of accreditation of medical devices, better control of notified bodies and better control of subcontractors and subsidiaries. the responsibility of the manufacturer will also be increased: before placing a medical device on the market, manufacturers will have to ensure that they are covered by appropriate civil liability insurance covering the risk of insolvency and damage to patients.
in writing. i have today approved the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the ship recycling regulation. with almost all (90% in 2009) eu shipowners circumventing the general ban on the transfer of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries and dismantling their ships in countries such as india or bangladesh, there is an urgent need for stronger rules. the agreement reached will, i hope, make for cleaner dismantling, in particular through the creation of a global list of recycling facilities meeting minimum health and environmental criteria.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text, which aims to put an end to a dangerous and environmentally irresponsible practice. it has two aspects which are of great importance to europe: it is not only intended to eliminate a threat to the environment, but it is also intended to ensure the protection of workers who are responsible for dismantling our ships under often unacceptable conditions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of reducing the harmful effects of recycling ships flying the flag of a member state of the european union, without imposing any unnecessary new financial burdens. more explicit requirements for ship recycling facilities should be introduced to ensure that recycling and waste treatment are environmentally sound. i support reducing the disparities between operators in the european union, oecd countries and third countries concerned in health and safety at work and environmental standards. the report also aims to facilitate the ratification of the hong kong convention. the convention will require these parties to dismantle their large merchant ships exclusively in countries which are parties to the convention. these may be asian countries whose decommissioning facilities will then have to meet internationally recognised standards. in doing so, the european union is advocating an environmentally sound management of ship dismantling.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement because it will allow for better treatment of end-of-life ship recycling in europe. as ships are made up of many dangerous and toxic substances, they should normally comply with strict recycling requirements, aimed at protecting both the environment and the health of workers. yet many end-of-life ships are sent to third countries for scrapping, where basic social and environmental standards are not respected. the agreement thus makes it possible to tighten up the legislation in force and to establish strict rules applying both to ships flying the european flag and to third-party ships entering and leaving union ports. it will thus allow for better compliance with environmental standards, while at the same time strengthening the competitiveness of the european ship recycling market, which creates many jobs in our ports.
in writing. the issue of ship dismantling and recycling is both an environmental and an industrial issue. more than ever, local zero-waste industrial cycles need to be promoted. europe must stop having its floating garbage cans in poor countries dismantled under the worst social and health conditions. the south must not be europe's garbage bin, allowing it to shine in ecological matters on the back of the health of slave workers in india, africa or bangladesh. the european union, if it had an industrial policy that served europeans and not ship owners and oil companies, would develop a ship recycling industry. this would lead to the development of new technologies and the creation of many skilled jobs. a port like cherbourg, which already specialises in the dismantling of nuclear submarines, could become a central european platform for this type of work. the regulation offers some small advances, but it fails to address the core of the problem: the regulatory loophole on depaving, which allows 90% of boats to be dismantled or stranded in asia in deplorable conditions. i therefore could not vote in favour of the report and abstained.
in writing. i supported this report. the text will improve and strengthen health and environmental standards for ship recycling and prevent end-of-life european vessels from being illegally sent to low-cost third countries to be dismantled under questionable conditions. this report will also help to support the competitiveness of our ship recycling industry. it was adopted by 591 votes to 47, with 32 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. many eu-flagged vessels are being dismantled at low cost in unacceptable environmental and sanitary conditions, particularly in south-east asia. the text adopted by the european parliament should improve and strengthen the health and environmental standards for ship recycling. i voted in favour of this text which improves environmental protection and contributes to the competitiveness of our ship recycling industry. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide for the dismantling of ships flying the european flag in facilities located in the european union (eu) or outside the eu that are approved at european level. in addition, every ship transiting through a european port will have to keep on board an inventory of the hazardous materials present in the ship's structure or equipment, specifying their location and approximate quantities. finally, controls will be strengthened and penalties for breaches of the rules will be more dissuasive. to help businesses adapt to the new rules, the european commission will have to submit a report within three years on the feasibility of a financial instrument to support environmentally and socially responsible ship recycling.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on ship recycling which improves the health and environmental standards for ship recycling. the text aims in particular to prevent european ships at the end of their life being transferred outside the european union, in particular to south-east asia, to be dismantled under dubious conditions, particularly in relation to the treatment of hazardous waste.
in writing. the developing countries cannot be the garbage of the world where ships die and are torn apart in social and ecological conditions that are unbearable. this report strengthens the obligations of shipowners for the treatment of end-of-life ships. it introduces the price of dismantling into the transport cost and promotes the development of recycling channels. these advances go beyond the convention currently in force. however, this regulation fails in one central point. it does not contain any binding clause to oblige a shipowner to have a ship dismantled in the european union. the text only provides for a tax on shipowners who refuse to undertake to have their ships dismantled in the union. the depavilling is therefore not prevented, this text only seeks to dissuade it by financial motives. shipowners will be able to continue to have their ships dismantled on the beaches of bangladesh and elsewhere. they will simply pay a tax and sell the ship once it has left the last european port. however, despite these serious shortcomings, this text opens a new period of treatment of this subject. i am voting in favour of the introduction of regulations.
in writing. this report aims to provide a framework for the recycling of ships flying the european flag. the idea is to set up a european list of global recycling facilities that meet a number of standards. european ships destined for decommissioning will thus have to go there. although i regret that the export of the wrecks to non-oecd countries is not prohibited, this regulation implicitly prohibits landing as a dismantling technique, which is a real advance. this proposal, although imperfect, has the merit of providing a framework for the dismantling of end-of-life vessels and i have therefore chosen to support it.
in writing. in this report, the european parliament adopted an amendment to a regulation on the recycling of european ships. the vast majority of these vessels (90%) are now dismantled in non-oecd countries, mainly in asia. needless to say, the conditions for dismantling are deplorable both environmentally and socially. the european parliament has made some positive changes, including strengthening the obligations of shipowners on the treatment of end-of-life vessels and requiring that community-flagged vessels be dismantled in certified centres. however, these provisions are vague and do not provide sufficient guarantees. what is more, this regulation does not make it possible to combat complacency, which is the source of all the current deviations. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. i have today approved the agreement reached at first reading on the sógor report. this report, which appears to be very technical, is in fact very political, since the aim is to harmonize demographic statistics within the european union. these statistics are used in particular to calculate the qualified majority in the council and are therefore used to determine the political weight of each member state. it should be noted that from 1 november 2014 qualified majority voting will be based on the so-called double majority. both will require a majority of member states (55%) representing at least 65% of the population. hence the importance of statistics on the population in each state.
in writing. improving the collection of demographic data within the european union means improving our knowledge of the needs of europeans, so that we can respond to them as closely as possible. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which will improve the collection and comparability of data at european level. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the value of collecting data and information broken down by gender: this is a key tool in our policies to combat discrimination and promote gender equality.
in writing. i supported this report. the objective of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european demographic statistics is to create a common framework for the production of european demographic statistics. this production will be based on the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by the member states of harmonised data on population and civil status events collected for the union's needs. the report was adopted by a large majority with 616 votes in favour, 58 against and 8 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on european statistics on demography which will allow for harmonised statistical processing through a common framework for the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by the member states of harmonised data on population and civil status events collected for the union's purposes, for example as regards the composition of the european parliament or the definition of the number of votes each member state has in the council. these technical provisions are therefore important for the proper functioning of our institutions and their representativeness.
in writing. the commission's text proposes an important development in european statistics on demography. the aim is to have as accurate and objective information as possible on the population, in particular to take account of the demographic weight of the member states in the new voting system in the council (the double majority). it seems to me extremely hypocritical to set such an objective when the treaties themselves are based on unequal demographic representation, with germany having more meps than france in proportion to the population of those two countries. the sógor report merely modifies the text in the margins and adds definitional or technical details. this is all a charade. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted for this report to be referred back to committee. the issue of sexual and reproductive health and rights is an important and serious issue, but one which must be addressed primarily at the level of states. many citizens whom i represent were, like myself, shocked that this report calls on member states to open up assisted reproduction to unmarried women and lesbians. the text of the report, in its current form, also goes far too far with regard to issues related to sex education in schools. it is not the role of the european parliament to make such recommendations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because the human rights situation in the sahel region is of particular concern. the multiple political, social and economic crises are making already unstable situations even more fragile. it is important that the eu responds to phenomena such as organised crime, arms and drug trafficking, extremism and the radicalisation of jihadists, which are not only tragic for the region but also have negative repercussions on our continent.
in writing. i voted against postponing the vote on this own-initiative report because it was a scandal to call into question the good work of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. the text was not revolutionary in any way, but it did have the merit of conveying the clear message that there were setbacks here and there in europe, that the current political and economic climate threatened respect for sexual and reproductive health and rights. this term refers to reproductive health, sexual education and the right to abortion. under the influence of intense lobbying, the majority of meps refused to vote on this text, which was purely symbolic. meps have finally succeeded in pushing back even further their arguments against sex education and the right to abortion. however, the text merely recalled that sexuality education based on gender equality is paramount and invited member states to provide comprehensive sexual health and rights education and services. the text is then referred back to the committee on women's rights and gender equality to present a new version... we will not cease to recall that the right to abortion remains paramount.
in writing. i voted for the referral back of this ambiguous, ideological report, which clearly did not fall within the european union's remit. social issues as important as the opening up of ldcs to single women or lesbians, or sex education in schools, must be the subject of wide-ranging debates with our fellow citizens, and not be voted on in secret in the context of a simple own-initiative report. i am in favour of ldcs for heterosexual couples, but i am against ldcs for same-sex couples. there are other priorities for sex education in school, where many children leave without even knowing how to read properly. parental authority is involved, and it is up to the parents to decide what values they want to impart. i'm strongly opposed to gender theory. i am a daily advocate of a strong, practical and pragmatic europe, which responds to the concerns of our citizens. i regret that the european parliament is taking a position on such texts, which do not fall within its direct competence.
in writing. what could be more regrettable than to tackle such sensitive and controversial issues as sexual and reproductive health and rights. in both form and substance, it is one of those ethical and moral issues - when they appeal to the conscience of each individual - which cannot be reduced to a list of principles imposed by a political assembly which had not been asked for anything. the european parliament has always been very sensitive to the protection of rights, particularly those of consumers and users, and this is to its credit. but on this subject, which is not even a matter of the immediate concern of the citizens, parliament should have respected the principle of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of the states. i am therefore glad that the text has been referred back to committee and i will be vigilant in the next steps to ensure that it is never adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of referring the estrela report on sexual and reproductive health and rights back to committee, given my opposition to this own-initiative report. first of all, it is a question of respecting the principle of subsidiarity, a fundamental principle of the european union following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. issues relating in particular to sex education are not within the competence of the european union and the member states remain the sole decision-makers in these matters. i would also like to emphasize my opposition to the teaching of gender theory in schools and to the vague notions of 'holistic' and 'interactive' sex education in the text of the report. the text is too ambiguous in its wording, which makes it dangerous. parliament voted to refer the text back to committee, on the basis of rule 175 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the european parliament voted to refer to the european parliament's women's committee an own-initiative report on sexual and reproductive health and rights. i voted against the postponement of the text in committee, so that i could vote against its adoption as soon as possible and devote my work to the real problems and crises that the european union is going through today. this report is not the responsibility of the european union but rather the prerogatives of each member state. thus, ethical issues must be regulated at their level and educational issues are primarily the responsibility of parents. i am also opposed to this text on the substance, particularly on the teaching of gender theory in schools. i will be vigilant about this report and will vote against its adoption if it is put back on the agenda of the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. i voted in favour of referring this report back to committee. it was diverted by considerations which have no place in a text of parliament, even though it was merely an own-initiative report with no legal or regulatory consequences. i have long been a campaigner for women's rights and i support all measures that can promote greater recognition of gender equality, improve prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, provide better support for young girls in the face of unwanted pregnancies and combat violence and discrimination against women. however, the issues addressed in this report, including the issues of access to ldcs for homosexual couples, the promotion or not of abortion and the establishment of "taboo-free and interactive" sex education go too far and largely encroach on the competences of the member states. beyond the substance, i think that our assembly should not be distracted by this kind of debate, but should instead concentrate on the subjects on which europe is really competent and on which it can concretely influence national policies and improve the daily lives of citizens.
in writing. the right and far right in the european parliament referred to the committee on women's rights and gender equality a report on sexual and reproductive health and rights which was voted on by a large majority in that committee. the majority in parliament is clear on these issues, but there has been intense lobbying by ultra-catholics in spain, italy and france (especially those who have gone on the rampage against marriage for all). it is a step back to make a better leap, and it smells of electoralism and of small political maneuvers a few months before the european elections. this report was not groundbreaking, echoing the traditional positions of the parliament by noting that: 'some member states are managing to combine liberal abortion legislation, effective sex education, quality family planning services and good contraception with lower abortion rates'. it reported on the negative effects of austerity measures on gender equality, and those of budgetary restrictions on the quality, accessibility and cost of public health services, sexual information, family planning, support for ngos, the consequences on women's economic independence. i very much regret the postponement of the adoption of this report and hope that it will be put to the vote again soon.
in writing. i supported mr tannock's own-initiative report, in which the european parliament affirms the necessary and indispensable commitment of the countries of the sahel region to human rights and the rule of law. i supported this report because it defends human dignity, the improvement of the situation of women and minorities and the fight against slavery. however, i have spoken out against the suspension of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and morocco. i believe that this point is out of the question in this resolution and that substantial improvements have been made to the new fisheries agreement. the purpose of this report cannot be a barrier to the economic development of the countries of the sahel region and their workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because the human rights situation in the sahel region is of particular concern. the multiple political, social and economic crises are making already unstable situations even more fragile. it is important that the eu responds to phenomena such as organised crime, arms and drug trafficking, extremism and the radicalisation of jihadists, which are not only tragic for the region but also have negative repercussions on our continent.
in writing. the european parliament is naturally an institution very sensitive to respect for rights and in particular human rights. the european union's approach to the sahel must be based on two closely linked components: security and development. this is the whole point of the sahel strategy 2011. as we have seen with the military intervention in mali, our efforts cannot be limited to the provision of finance but must also be directed towards concrete operations and actions in the field of good governance, the rule of law, security and the fight against all forms of radicalism, extremism and terrorism. however, i regret that this resolution did not focus solely on the sahel, which is a terribly unstable region where the european union has a lot to do, and that it also devoted an entire chapter to western sahara. in the end, these members have only succeeded in diverting attention from the main subject to tackle, clumsily and for political purposes, a totally different issue, but have also successfully contributed to discrediting the european parliament in the eyes of the commission and eeas experts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague charles tannock which gives an overview of the human rights situation in the sahel region but goes too far in some areas. our votes have helped to avoid unfair stigmatisation of some member states and to defend the rights of women in this region. i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this very important report which deals in a comprehensive way with the human rights situation in the sahel region and in particular in mali. it is time for our assembly to take a stand on the very serious and worrying human rights violations that have taken place in northern mali since the beginning of 2012. the report presents them in detail (summary executions, mutilations, violence against women and girls, child soldiers, destruction of cultural heritage, etc.) and emphasises the need to combat impunity and to launch without delay an open dialogue on national reconciliation. i am particularly pleased that this report also deals with the human rights situation in western sahara. it is a rare occasion for our assembly to give such detail to the human rights problems specific to western sahara and to affirm its commitment to the right of the peoples to self-determination.
in writing. the european parliament adopted on tuesday, 22 october, a resolution on human rights in the sahel region, which aims to complement the european union's strategy in the region. the european union's action in this area is essential because it is one of the least developed regions in the world. it also faces many conflicts and challenges such as organised crime, human trafficking, arms and drug trafficking, weak governance and corruption. we have asked the european union, the world's largest aid donor, to integrate these issues into its development aid policy and its common foreign policy. i voted in favour of this report because the challenges we face in the sahel must be tackled in a transversal way, not confined to one country or one type of policy but requiring an ambitious and comprehensive strategy on the part of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the human rights situation in the sahel region, one of the poorest regions in the world which faces serious problems of human rights, the rule of law, security and armed conflict. the european union plays an important role in this region as a donor. eu policy should tackle trafficking in human beings, improve the situation of women, children and minorities, protect civil liberties and improve democratic governance.
in writing. this report denounces the human rights abuses in this volatile and poor region. particular attention is paid to the most vulnerable groups, in particular women. the report even laments that "the revenues from the exploitation of energy resources are not sufficiently reintroduced into the local economy". these statements would be laudable if the european union were not directly co-responsible for the evils in question. this report is all the more hypocritical because it simultaneously extols the advantages of the cotonou agreements, which have organized the liberalization of african markets by destroying local economies and weakening states. the report also fully supports the french military operation 'serval' in mali, launched in january without a un mandate. as long as we can report without legislative implications, why not measure the consequences of european union policy? report or amnesty ? i am voting against this report, whose laudable intentions are rendered incoherent by the union's current policy towards africa in particular and the countries of the south in general.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on human rights in the sahel because it proposes a coherent and coordinated approach for the region. the sahel is one of the poorest and most neglected regions in the world. according to the united nations, 18 million people face severe food and nutrition crises and the under-five mortality rate is more than 200 deaths per 1,000 births. the report also mentions the inextricable link between human security and development in the sahel countries and welcomes the efforts of the european commission which played a decisive role in the establishment of the global alliance for resilience in the sahel (agir-sahel) enabling local populations to benefit from effective food and nutrition assistance.
in writing. civil society organisations and local authorities are key actors in integrating all european citizens into decision-making at european level. they are also a key step in the effective fight against poverty and the consolidation of peace in developing countries. the aim of this text is to encourage the strengthening of their role both in the member states and among our partners, in particular by providing for an increased role for women in the development and implementation of a strengthened political dialogue for development. this is a strong gesture: europe wants to take account of the concerns of europeans as closely as possible to their needs and by encouraging their participation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is particularly important to define in a coherent way the objectives of the union's cooperation with civil society organisations and local authorities, in line with previous european commission communications. i also support the fact that civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities (las) deserve to be able to make their voices heard on the european stage. it is essential that state and local policies draw on the expertise and experience of these actors on the ground, who are confronted every day with the implications of decisions taken at political level. dialogue, consultation, exchange and the inclusion of these actors in the decision-making process will undoubtedly help to promote and strengthen local democracy, as well as the confidence and interest of our citizens in the development of the city.
in writing. i supported this report. the text calls for a more ambitious partnership with civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities, based on a human rights-based approach to development, strengthening decentralisation and the territorial approach to development, development education and awareness-raising, and setting out adequate support modalities, including for the level of funding. it follows on from the foreign affairs council conclusions which call for a renewed and more ambitious policy in favour of civil society, with a focus on civil society organisations in partner countries. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is part of the recent developments in european and international development policies to better integrate civil society organisations and local authorities. we can look forward to a human rights-based direction of development and to further strengthening the process of democratization.
in writing. this report follows on from the busan conference on development. representatives of civil society organisations and local authorities called for development policy to be rights-based and to guarantee 'democratic ownership' to encourage an active role for civil society. the rapporteur calls on the commission and the european external action service to better support the union's human rights cooperation and development policy in consultation with civil society organisations and partner countries. the report also makes the point that any transfer of responsibility in the context of decentralisation must be accompanied by a transfer of resources. i can only support these good intentions, while deploring the silence of the report on the consequences of european austerity for local authorities. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the union's development aid policy. in its relations with developing countries, the report says the eu should step up its support for civil society organisations and local authorities at all levels. the aim is to ensure 'democratic ownership' of development policy, i.e. an increased role for civil society in the design, implementation and monitoring of projects. this principle of democratic ownership puts citizens at the heart of development and holds the governments of partner countries accountable for their policies. in practical terms, democratic ownership requires territorial development, decentralisation and a strengthening of local democratic structures. that is why i voted in favour of this report, but i cannot but be skeptical about its chances of implementation in the light of the evolution of european policies in this field.
in writing. i voted in favour of the neveďalová report. it highlights two essential measures to combat unemployment: education and training. this report highlights the many links between education and working life. internships and volunteering are thus mentioned and recognised as valuable and effective preparations for the world of work. as the unemployment rate, mainly among young people, reaches a record level, the union must do everything possible to reverse this situation.
in writing. to tackle unemployment - especially among young people - europe must propose solutions to rethink education. in this text we put forward a set of proposals to adapt education to the labour market. i welcome the fact that this text incorporates my proposals to develop a set of key competences, including language learning, from an early age, and that it proposes a set of measures to promote contact between educational institutions and the professional world. the lack of realism in education is a challenge that europe must meet quickly to ensure its international competitiveness and promote employment.
in writing. i did not vote for mrs nevedalova's report. it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid in its approach to the problem of the problem of unemployment. or he suggests things that are unacceptable, such as changing the teaching profession at european level in terms of status and career. but above all, it should not exist, since much of its content violates article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that it is for the member states alone to decide on the content of the lessons and the organisation of their education system. it can be considered that these teachings, at national level and particularly in france, are amenable to reform or improvement. but the european union must not in any way be meddling in this. to make brussels rethink education is to serve little finger to the wolf or little red riding hood to the wolf for dinner.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague katarina neved'alova which emphasises the major challenges facing europe in the field of education in the context of the economic crisis. education must be able to respond to the real needs of the labour market, particularly in the fields of science and technology. in addition to informal training, quality internships, apprenticeships and volunteering must be recognised as the first link between the world of study and the world of work. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the european parliament adopted an own-initiative report proposing measures to improve the training of young europeans. in march 2013, the unemployment rate in the eu reached 23.5% for young people aged 25 and under, while more than two million jobs were unfilled. the report therefore stresses the need for education to meet the needs of the current labour market. education should be focused on areas where we face a shortage of labour, such as science, technology and engineering. we also call on the member states and the european union to strengthen the link between students and the world of work by supporting non-formal training, the work of youth organisations, quality placements, apprenticeships and volunteering. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need to reorient our education system in this direction in order to combat unemployment in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which deals with an issue of prime importance to europeans, namely education and preparation for working life. the situation shows that the european education system is not sufficiently responsive to the challenge of preparing for employment. education plays a crucial role in the fight against unemployment and that is why we must adapt education by directing it towards vocational learning, foreign languages and digital skills.
in writing. as the commission's initial communication was entitled 'rethinking education', it was to be expected that innovative proposals would be made. instead, the commission persists in thinking of education as a simple variable for adjustment to the current economic order: fostering growth, developing 'entrepreneurial spirit' and 'entrepreneurial skills' (from primary school onwards!), etc. in short: to serve the enterprises and to adapt the educational "supply" to the "demand" of the market. the neved'alová report supports this view. a few words are said about the importance of education in the formation of conscious and enlightened citizens, but it is clear that these are formal remarks. the role of qualifications in the ecological bifurcation of the productive system is also totally unrecognised. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes modern and effective solutions to rethink education and reconcile it with a successful entry into the world of work, in a context where unemployment affects almost a quarter of young europeans under the age of 25. the report encourages the development of all initiatives aimed at bringing the worlds of education and vocational training closer together: awareness-raising on entrepreneurship and sustainable and sought-after jobs (e.g. health, engineering or the green economy), promotion of university-business partnerships, enhancement of skills based on informal learning, etc. the report also calls for an extension of the scope of education. i am thinking in particular of adults and continuing training programmes, which would draw on the growing opportunities for online educational resources. i am also thinking of young people who have failed in school or in the workplace, and who urgently need to be reintegrated into society through educational programmes for a second chance and measures to facilitate the introduction of apprenticeships in enterprises.
in writing. the neved'alova report opens up avenues of reflection for the evolution of our education systems which convinced me to vote for it. it recalls the need to acquire and master at least one foreign language in a european and globalised context. it draws attention to vulnerable groups and stresses the importance of the role of the school in the integration process, whether in the case of minorities or disabled people. it recommends the implementation of tools and means to ensure lifelong learning. but the heart of this report is the situation of millions of young europeans who are unemployed and have left the training system and who are in urgent need of the youth guarantee, with the means to meet the challenges. i regret, however, that this text advocates the adaptation of training to the needs of enterprises or the labour market. this so-called miracle cure ignores the ever-faster changes in the economic world and the consequent urgent need to provide young people with an education which is sufficiently comprehensive to prepare them for many occupational changes.
in writing. i voted against this report by the european parliament, presented by mrs nevedalova, entitled 'rethinking education'. it is unfortunately a sad fact to acknowledge that access to education has been severely impacted by the crisis and austerity measures. we must draw some conclusions from this, which this report does not do, quite the contrary. unfortunately, it merely follows the logic of the bologna process, or more precisely its recovery by the european institutions, i.e. increasingly subordinating education to the immediate interests of the market and large companies. worse, this report considers public-private partnerships to be the main solution to the system's funding problems. this model which favours a short-term view without any consideration for the interests of our young people and their future cannot be mine. i therefore voted against this report, as did all the members of my group.
in writing. i welcome the unanimous adoption of the macovei report. the european union is clearly in favour of fighting corruption and crime within its borders. this report calls for the same to be done in the candidate countries. the commission is invited to increase the amount of preaccession funds devoted to the promotion of sound judicial and political institutions and to ensure regular and transparent monitoring and control of these funds. the report is one of the instruments in the fight against corruption.
in writing. when the european commission examines applications for membership of the european union, it seems to me that its priority should be to check the economic stability of the country, respect for democratic principles and the rule of law and social standards so that the conditions are in place for a smooth accession without fuelling the risks of unfair competition between member states and suspicion towards new entrants. like the rapporteur, i regret that the commission does not devote sufficient funds to the fight against corruption and judicial reform in the applicant countries. if we do not want to aggravate the painful crisis of confidence of european citizens in the european project and its institutions, we must restore the foundations of that trust through transparency and the pursuit of results. therefore, until candidate and potential candidate countries can demonstrate that their judicial and political systems are fully in line with the values, principles and requirements of the european union, they will not be eligible to join the eu.
in writing. i supported this report. he referred to the commission's new strategy of tackling judicial reform and home affairs problems at an early stage in the accession process. it is essential to remember that the rule of law is the foundation of democratic governance and that the judicial system must be more predictable so that the public and business can have confidence in it. the report also stresses that achieving concrete results remains a real challenge, particularly in relation to corruption in high political spheres and in the judiciary. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union's pre-accession funds, which analyses the main projects carried out in the fight against corruption and the improvement of judicial systems in several countries in the balkan region. we can regret that although the commission wishes to start judicial reform at an early stage of the accession process, this priority is not reflected in the amounts of pre-accession funds allocated to this sector. the union must continue its action, in particular in the fight against corruption at the highest political levels and in the field of justice.
in writing. the macovei report is interesting in that it calls on the commission to be more rigorous in dealing with such a crucial subject as the fight against corruption and the evolution of judicial systems through the eu's pre-accession funds. the commission is therefore proposed to put in place more effective statistical tools, to monitor better the expenditure of the pre-accession fund, to provide more information to parliament and the citizens of the union, to adapt the duration of its plans to the actual implementation times on the ground and to coordinate its action better with other donors and other institutions. these elements are in the right direction. however, several problems persist in this report: the rule of law is seen only as "a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the market economy". independent justice is seen as a way of reassuring the "business community". above all, recommendations are made by state, which is indirectly equivalent to distributing good and bad points to sovereign peoples. i can't vouch for the latter. i am voting against this report.
in writing. i supported the adoption of the rossi report, which urged the member states of the european union to make efforts to reduce as much as possible the harm suffered by patients when they receive care. while care-associated infections (cas) affect about 5% of hospital patients, the report calls for support for research into the prevention of cas. it also provides extensive training for healthcare staff to prevent these collateral damage. the quality of healthcare and hospital care in europe is one of the highest in the world and must remain so. to this end, intensified cooperation between member states is crucial.
in writing. in this text, parliament calls for patient safety to be made a real priority for the european union: this requires first and foremost better information for patients and rigorous training for healthcare staff. prevention of the risks involved means avoiding considerable hospital costs and, above all, many deaths: it is considered that between 30 and 40% of adverse events in the hospital sector and in the hospital environment are caused by systemic factors, which are therefore preventable! these numbers are shocking, and we have a duty to put an end to them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to improve patient safety in the union, which still varies considerably from one member state to another. it is estimated that between 30 and 40 per cent of adverse events associated with care are preventable. these adverse events include care-associated infections (cas), which are estimated to affect an average of 5% of hospital patients, or 3.2 million people each year, and directly cause death in 37,000 of them. in addition to the obvious benefit to patients, any investment in patient safety is therefore a potential source of savings. the priority given to patient safety thus leads to a reduction in the costs of caring for patients suffering from adverse events associated with care and, as a result, to a better use of financial and human resources. improvements are needed in both inpatient and outpatient care in terms of training and education on patient safety, in terms of the detection of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and in terms of budgetary and staff resources for patient safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague oreste rossi which lays down rules on patient safety training and aims to harmonise the existing rules in the european union. i am glad that this report has been widely adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes measures to prevent adverse events in healthcare, such as misdiagnosis, prescribing two medicines that should not be combined or incorrect disinfection of equipment. several studies estimate that 30 to 40 percent of these adverse events could be prevented. we have emphasised the prevention of 'hospital-acquired diseases', which are contracted during care and affect 5% of patients each year in europe. hospital and non-hospital staff should be better trained on these issues. we also asked the member states to strengthen their financial, technological and human resources to prevent such incidents. these investments are all the more necessary as 13% to 16% of hospital costs (i.e. one euro in seven) are due to care-related incidents.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on patient safety, which calls for better training of hospital staff and carers on care-associated infections (cas). in order to improve patient safety, member states could put in place actions to empower citizens and prevent ibs. we need to invest in this area, which could become a more important issue in the future in the context of an ageing european population.
in writing. this report recommends measures to promote patient safety and control care-associated infections. but at the same time it recognises that the european union cannot interfere in the exercise of the member states' competences in the field of health. he tends to favor patient rights. it denounces the effects of the crisis and austerity which leads to a lack of human, financial and technological resources and which undermines the quality of care. but if we agree with all the measures proposed, how can we implement them when europe is imposing an austerity policy on the states with cuts in all budgets, including health? how can the recommendations of this report be implemented when regional health agencies impose reductions in beds, closures of services or hospitals, mergers of hospital centres and staff reductions? i vote in favour of supporting these good intentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the de jong report, as it aims to protect european companies from abusive and deceptive business practices by certain companies. the report lays the foundations for transparent and fair competition between european businesses and stresses the importance of combating deceptive advertising practices. the report proposes, for example, the establishment of a blacklist of companies which have been repeatedly convicted of such practices. i support actions that work to support a healthy economic environment.
in writing. in this text, we are mobilizing to combat deceptive advertising practices. in a context of crisis and reduced confidence, european companies, the first to be hit by this scourge, must be able to count on real protection against these dishonest practices. since these practices are not confined to the eu, the text proposes, among other things, to promote international cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of strengthening the protection of our companies against misleading advertising practices, particularly for our smes, which are more vulnerable to the high costs that these practices can entail. i therefore condemn the dishonest practices of directory publishers, who send forms to companies asking them to complete or update their company name and contact details, ostensibly for free, but in reality, without their knowledge, have them conclude a contract obliging them to be listed in a professional directory for a certain sum. in order to strengthen this protection, i am in particular in favour of the establishment of a blacklist of deceptive commercial practices and of companies which have been repeatedly convicted for using these practices.
in writing. i supported this report on the directive on misleading and comparative advertising in business-to-business relations (the provisions on comparative advertising also apply to business-to-consumer relations). it is a balanced report which has the merit of highlighting all the problems facing businesses in this field. the development of fraudulent practices such as 'directory companies' (offering directory-type services as 'free' and then charging companies excessively high rates for these services) is particularly damaging to businesses and must be combated.
in writing. the european parliament has revised a 2006 directive to improve the regulation of misleading and comparative advertising. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to protect professionals better against such practices, in particular those of companies which claim to include companies in directories for free but then charge for their services. companies will be better informed by means of a blacklist of deceptive commercial practices and companies that have been repeatedly convicted of using them. the directive will also strengthen cooperation between the competent national authorities and institutions such as banks, post offices and debt collection agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which calls on member states to better enforce the current rules on misleading advertising practices and for additional eu measures to better protect european businesses, especially smes, which are particularly vulnerable to them. the level of protection is not uniform between member states, which creates legal uncertainty in cross-border trade. the report calls for the creation of a national contact point where companies that have been the victims of deceptive practices could report them and obtain information on the remedies available.
in writing. the commission's communication and the jong report highlight a very important problem, which concerns many smes, but also many citizens of the european union. for smes, misleading advertising practices, especially those of directory companies, are a serious problem which member states must combat firmly and cooperate with each other, in particular to identify and define fraudulent practices, but also to list and sanction companies which engage in such practices. since the commission is obsessed with the 'cost-competitiveness' of enterprises, it will find a way to improve it without having to touch the salaries of employees. i am pleased to note that the jong report supports the commission's idea of drawing up a blacklist of deceptive practices and adding a blacklist of companies to it. i am in favour of this solution. more clarity for smes, more cooperation and coordination between member states, more firmness against deceptive practices and companies: i am voting for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague from the gue/ngl group, cornelis de jong, on misleading advertising practices. misleading advertising practices can take different forms: misleading directory companies (companies filling out seemingly free forms that make them enter into paid contracts without their knowledge), misleading payment forms (companies receiving invoices for fictitious services), etc. the report asked the commission to draw up a blacklist of these unfair practices and a list of companies which had been repeatedly convicted of such acts and possibly even to prohibit them from receiving eu funding and from participating in public procurement procedures. the aim was therefore to encourage member states to cooperate more closely in combating this phenomenon. the report has been adopted and i am glad of that.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on a matter as important as this, i would like to express my regret that the council is not here. i would like to thank mr iacolino for the excellent work he has done over the last 18 months. the scale and complexity of organised crime, corruption and money laundering are underestimated. if there is one thing that this report can do for us, it is to raise awareness among political actors and public opinion alike. no, the mafia is not confined to the italian peninsula. consider, for example, the very low number of corruption charges in france, despite reports by transparency international. no, the criminal is not a mafia boss who uses violence or retaliation, but a businessman who uses every new source of income, who infiltrates the legal economy in complex ways, from drug trafficking to counterfeiting of everyday goods, human trafficking, which is particularly cruel, or the rigging of sports matches. the fight against organised crime must be our priority. it is time to take action and to equip ourselves with the means to fight these criminals better, who are not waiting for us to cooperate. we should have intelligence units, but also national prosecutors' offices specialising in organised crime, as we have in terrorism. we should also enable police forces to cooperate better by giving more resources to joint investigation teams and investing even more in police training, including linguistic training and equipping them with expertise to better combat increasingly technical crimes. i take this opportunity, commissioner, to ask you to release the cepol file. today, it's something very important. among the key measures in the report of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, civil forfeiture and the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office are particularly close to my heart and today i would like to remind you how much we need this european public prosecutor's office to combat fraud against the budget of the european union. we must stand together to make this project a success, regardless of our differences in design and architecture. i also felt that the five-cent note should be withdrawn. what honest citizen today uses a five-cent euro note? it is time to have the political courage to act at this level. finally, i call on the commission, the council and each member state to take this report very seriously and not to leave its recommendations unchallenged.
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs hohlmeier, you mentioned schengen in the fight against organised crime, could you please list some of the benefits of the schengen acquis?
mr president, the rapporteur, mr iacolino, is right. criminal organisations are the best students of globalisation and the construction of europe in its brussels version. they show the spirit of enterprise, initiative, intercultural and transnational cooperation which we also wish to see. they know how to seize every opportunity that is offered to them, god knows if there are any, with the disappearance of internal borders, the policy of uncontrolled immigration, the encouragement of the free movement of capital worldwide, the generalized free trade, the liberalization of online betting, but also the sale of medicines. these are just a few of the facilities. we are not quite complicit, ladies and gentlemen, you are not quite co-authors, but you are quite responsible for the explosion of crossborder crime. iacolino's report is not all bad, nor is the june report, but frankly i doubt that the solution lies in the european union and its current heavy-duty, bureaucratic legislative instruments. the solution to this problem must be sought in the strengthening of national judicial, police and criminal resources, as well as in international cooperation, of which there are many effective examples.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i am delighted to have you as president of this beautiful chamber in strasbourg. mr president-in-office of the council, let us be concrete: imagine a space where i, a frenchwoman, could find a lawyer in italy on the internet, a legal space where i could consult the cost of a civil procedure in another member state than my own, a space where i could, from my country, download a form to lodge a request for dispute settlement with a company in lithuania, a legal space where, as we have just recalled, the interconnection of criminal records would be a reality, a european legal space where the judicial authorities of the various member states could exchange information via a secure network - it is very fashionable at the moment when we talk a lot about the nsa or the swift system - a space where i could receive all procedural acts emanating from a court, etc. all of this is part of online justice. however, e-justice is not straightforward, at least in some member states, it is already complicated. in my country, for example, the application called "tele-assistance", which has been in existence since last year, is still not effective and operational today. so, at european level, as all the previous speakers have said, we must guarantee citizens what is basically a right to free movement and prevent obstacles to this right which we regard as a fundamental right. as rapporteur for my group on the 2014-2020 justice programme, i emphasised in the debate on this dossier both the necessary assessment of progress to be made compared to the previous programme, and funding and training in the area of e-justice, simply because it is a key area that is considered as such here in parliament. we talk about progress, we talk about saving time, we talk about reducing costs, efficiency of the judicial system, modernization... but what are we really talking about? we are talking about european citizens. more than ever, projects must be concrete and implemented for the benefit not only of citizens but also of businesses, in order to create a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, online justice is not a problematic issue, amidst the ocean of complex files that are on the desks of our institutions. that is why we must encourage the member states to make progress on the path of e-justice, because it is a supplement to trust, a strengthening of european cohesion, a step in the construction of a judicial culture and, in a word, a concrete realization of the area of justice, security and freedom.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, you share the budgetary authority with us, but you are definitely accumulating them in budgetary matters! first, you don't want to pay the budget, and now you're preventing us from properly controlling it. i would like to thank the signatories of this question, even though i was present at the hearing and mr mates said 'well, all right' but he also said 'i will consult my government'. he has done well to be appointed to the court of auditors. i would like to ask you a question, mr president, and i welcome the work of mrs ayala sender, who in her draft report proposes to reform the appointment of the members of the court. in all audit bodies worldwide, the general meeting approving and giving discharge always appoints the auditor. therefore, do you agree, mr president, to give up your power to appoint the members of the court and to leave that prerogative to parliament, which is, in the final analysis, the discharge authority? do you personally - since you cannot express a collective opinion, but perhaps you can give an opinion - agree to give up this power?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your clarifications. i believe that in the context of the crisis and anxiety we are in, we must turn a blind eye to the allegations that those europeans who are forced to move are primarily the beneficiaries. the figures you have mentioned - that mobile workers are responsible, on average, for 0.2% of health expenditure, or 0.01% of gdp in the countries where they are located - and which bear the seal of oecd authority, are figures to bear in mind when some want to stir up fears and fantasies rather than find real solutions. and the real solutions are to address the needs of the peripheral countries. the reason why we talk so much about this mobility today is that many people in the countries where they are do not find the job they aspire to. i see that those who are now worried about health tourism or social protection are also the countries that are the last to vote in favour of a real investment budget, which allows investment in peripheral countries so that people can live and work there, since that is exactly what they aspire to.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is right. it is not the risk of abuse of national social protection systems that undermines mobility. on the contrary, it is the lack of coordination and harmonization of our social systems that is a barrier. it is true that some citizens in the european union need social benefits more than others. however, the austerity policy has only increased these needs and the states will not solve anything by trying to impose these restrictions on freedom of movement, which is one of our fundamental achievements. we need a european social response to the crisis. it is time for the member states to turn to the commission's proposals, which i welcome, and in particular the publication of social indicators, the first step towards guaranteeing a social protection threshold. the guarantee of minimum social protection and a minimum income, regardless of the host member states, would be a much more ambitious and solidary solution, consistent with our values and our project of a union of solidarity.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, next year will mark the tenth anniversary of the neighbourhood policy: the time for a 'overall positive' assessment and, i hope, the time for a reorientation of this policy towards greater pragmatism. one example: how can we meet the objective of regional integration when some countries in the south have an action plan and others do not? more pragmatism here means more listening and better taking into account the needs expressed by the beneficiaries themselves when working on their action plan. why would you do that? because that is the best way to ensure the most rapid and complete implementation of the directive. pragmatism also in the face of the differences in the situation between our neighbours to the east and to the south. while pressures in the east are often trade and external, tensions in the south are political and economic and have both internal and external implications. in view of the complexity and instability of the region, it seems to me absolutely imperative, commissioner, that we make our southern neighbourhood a real priority today, as well as tomorrow.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proper functioning of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law are the fundamental pillars of the partnership between the european union and its neighbours. i shall dwell, commissioner, on the southern partnership. the aim of the southern partnership is to bring the two shores of the mediterranean closer together with a view to creating an area of peace, democracy, security and prosperity for the 800 million inhabitants. security and stability are the keywords of good neighbourly relations. the union's partners must be provided with an effective multilateral framework to enable them to overcome democratic difficulties and promote regional integration. i regret, commissioner, that some of our colleagues are taking the kingdom of morocco hostage and that amendments are still being tabled on the western sahara and the future fisheries agreement between morocco and the european union. i hope that tomorrow we will have a favourable outcome to this report and that these amendments will be rejected.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the vote on the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy a few months ago, we will vote tomorrow on the european maritime and fisheries fund. this fund shall constitute the financial component of the cfp for the period 2014-2020. the emff has a key role to play in ensuring a sustainable fishing model. our priority is the long-term preservation of fish stocks. my report therefore proposes concrete instruments for sustainable fishing, while at the same time allowing the sector to be competitive. some of these proposals are the subject of intense lobbying by ngos. there has been a lot of misinformation about amendment no 587, which concerns the renewal of the fleet and the reduction of capacity. in addition, the european commission has made unacceptable interference by telephone calls to members of parliament. the commission's role is to initiate legislation, but in no way to intervene directly in the parliamentary process and to try to influence the position of members. the commission does indeed propose, madam commissioner, but today, whether you like it or not, it is parliament and the council that decide. these are methods that are unacceptable to the elected representatives of the people that we are. i wanted to tell you. you are free, madam commissioner, not to support some of these proposals, but it is not appropriate to deploy a full battalion of dg mare staff to contact members one by one and urge them to vote against certain amendments. if i may make this remark, this time in a humorous tone: if the commission were to agree to spend on fleet renewal even the amount it has just spent on telephone bills to try to get the principle of renewal rejected, the safety and energy performance of our ships would already be somewhat improved. amendment no 587, which has been widely criticised, proposes to renew fishing vessels over 35 years old on condition that the capacity and fishing effort of the new vessel is 40% lower than that of the old one. i would point out that this only applies to vessels of less than 12 metres in length using the sleeper craft. this instrument will only address fleet segments with overcapacity. this is therefore the only capacity reduction measure in the whole reform of the common fisheries policy. amendment no 586 also proposes to cap aid for fleet renewal and engine replacement at 10% of the emff. this is a practical and reasonable measure to combat overcapacity and overfishing. while some people are content with incantations, i propose strong action for sustainable fishing and conservation of the resource. i would also remind you that 80% of the fishery and aquaculture products we consume in europe are imported products. do we want to be totally dependent on third countries, by eliminating our fishing activity in europe? not as far as i'm concerned. the renewal, as proposed, is a concrete measure for sustainable fishing and also for capacity reduction. what do those who oppose this measure propose? nothing, not at all. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to draw the necessary conclusions from the noise of the lobbying against you. the reform of the common fisheries policy must be based on better controls and more robust data collection. the achievement of maximum sustainable yield requires a better knowledge of fish stocks. to achieve this, i therefore urge you to support the amendments which increase the resources allocated to controls and data collection. as you know, the new common fisheries policy provides for an obligation to land all catches. it is necessary to provide for intervention by the emff to significantly limit such discards. the emphasis will therefore have to be on the selectivity of fishing gear. it is also important to help fishermen and ports to make the necessary arrangements for the storage and treatment of any unwanted catches. it is the duty of the union to facilitate the implementation of zero emissions, including through public support. my report is in line with that. the reform of the common fisheries policy is also based on management plans and conservation measures. the emff has an important role to play in enabling these measures to be implemented effectively. i therefore ask you to support the amendments introducing biological rest periods and temporary stops. they are the key to sustainable fishing, which safeguards stocks and sustains the industry. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote will be an opportunity to promote a sustainable fishing model for the next ten years. for me, sustainable fishing is not just about wishful thinking and good feelings. sustainable fishing is above all about taking concrete measures to eliminate overfishing and to control the capacity of the fleet while allowing fishermen to make a living from their trade. i ask you to be pragmatic and responsible and to reject dogmatic considerations which will lead us nowhere. commissioner, in conclusion, i would like to express my disappointment at the fish love exhibition in brussels on monday. do you think that showing celebrities posing nude with fish will help us fight overfishing? my colleagues, the mass communication campaign of the so-called fish lovers is just a smokescreen to hide their lack of proposals. tomorrow, vote for sustainable fishing, vote against overfishing, vote for my report!
mr president, commissioner, the work of the committee on fisheries has made substantial progress on a text whose initial commission proposal was more an incentive for the profession to change than to look to the future with confidence. this is the relative weight of the objectives of economic and social sustainability, since they were not translated into practice in the emff. the committee on fisheries can therefore be pleased to have succeeded in reorienting this fund to enable european fishermen to face global competition. this unfair competition on the ecological and social level means that we now import more than 65% of the seafood we consume. the cfp requires fishermen to make a lot of effort by setting ambitious sustainability targets, including - and rightly so - the mdg. if the new cfp is to be a state-of-the-art policy, it must therefore be translated into an ambitious fund, allowing the modernisation of techniques and work tools, which are too often outdated, and allowing the increase of the means for more controls and more data. the compromise is intended to help fishermen in this transition, because until proven otherwise, the free global market is not a tool for implementing european policies, let alone a food policy. i am therefore in favour of public aid, when it contributes to the prosperity of the union and not to its decline.
the rapporteur. - mr president, just a few answers. firstly, commissioner, i wonder where you got the sum of three million euros per ship. this is completely surreal, since the ceiling is eur 80 000 per vessel and the total renewal is eur 6 million, i.e. 10% of the emff. forgive me, but i wonder where you got these numbers. in addition, in reply to my colleague milana, this vote will not be a referendum on whether or not to renew the fleet. fortunately, it will be much more than that. we have 12 pages of votes, so there is more to it than that. in reply to the question of my colleague rodust, i am sorry, ulrike, but i have the evidence of the lobbying i mentioned, otherwise i would not have dared to say such a thing. i would now like to conclude by thanking my fictitious rapporteurs who have given me the opportunity to write this report. without them, i couldn't have done it. i would also like to thank my colleagues emilie and vincent, after two years of work. we now have the trilogues to finalise this emff in the most relevant way for fishermen and for the conservation of the resource.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the situation is still surreal, even ridiculous. we need two amending budgets: amending budget no 6, which you mentioned, of 2.7 billion, and amending budget no 8, of 3.9 billion. we have been saying for weeks in this parliament that we consider the two amending budgets to be examined together and that this is the condition for us to vote for the cfp. it is now discovered by chance that there is a funding problem at the commission. that's good! then we are told that the council is proposing amending budgets nos 6 and 8. the council was able to propose to us amending budget no 6 for the amount of 2.7 billion and has not yet been able to propose amending budget no 8 for the amount of 3.9 billion. but we're also told that we have to make a decision by november 15th. the solution is simple: an extraordinary session of the european parliament on 4 or 5 november! in the meantime the council will have time to present amending budget no 8. it is before 15 november, so the commission can work, alain lamassoure can work, everyone can work with the council to draw up the two amending budgets. if we go through with the proposed procedure, we'll never see the 3.9 billion. i would like to conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that for 2014 we are facing a deficit of 20 billion. 20 billion! if we don't even get the 3.9, we'll never make it! if this parliament cannot finally convince the council, we shall never be taken seriously again. refuse to vote at this session! let us accept that there is an extraordinary session in november, on the 4th or 5th, and this parliament will then be able to have an interesting exchange of views with the council.
president of the committee on budgets. - madam president, i am not speaking on behalf of my group, but as chairman of the committee on budgets. i would like to restate a number of points, because some members are speaking in such a way as to give the impression that by voting on this budget no 6 we are making a concession to the council. the reality is just the opposite. the council does not like this budget no 6. why would you do that? because it's not an expense budget, it's an income budget. the purpose of budget no 6 is to oblige the member states to draw eur 2.7 billion from their national budgets to pay the bills linked to amending budget no 2, adopted in july. that's what this is about. i regret - and i say this with courtesy and respect in the presence of the president of the european commission - the commission's clumsiness. we had a trilogue last week on budgetary matters. we invited the european commission to the committee on budgets last thursday. however, she did not emphasize at the time the seriousness of her cash problem. it was only during the weekend that the commission realised that it was on the verge of being unable to pay. in these circumstances, the committee on budgets took up the matter yesterday, as requested by the plenary on monday morning. we've been interviewing with commissioner lewandowski. it has given us satisfactory answers to the 20 questions we have put to it and, in these circumstances, the committee on budgets proposes that you adopt this amending budget no 6, which - i repeat - is designed to get the member states to pay eur 2.7 billion. if we do not get this, we are not hindering the council: we are hindering ourselves in the budget negotiations and we are jeopardizing the possibility of obtaining - we will get there - the 3.9 billion payment appropriations which we obviously need.
president of the commission. − madam president, i was intending to speak about this point in the next point, but since comments were made regarding the commission, i think that it is appropriate to clarify some issues now. first of all, i basically agree with what the president of the committee on budgets, mr lamassoure, has just said. i do not think that you will be doing yourselves any favours if you do not vote for draft amending budget no 6. it is critically important for draft amending budget no 6 to be approved for the reasons that have just been mentioned by the president of the committee on budgets. i would also like to remind you that draft amending budget no 8 has already been approved by the coreper. so, while i understand that there has been lack of confidence between council and parliament – and we have just heard some comments here – i would like to make a strong appeal to the council and to parliament to engage in these matters, not through arm-twisting but through loyal cooperation. the citizens of europe simply do not understand that debate. the citizens of europe are asking for the financing of the regions in their countries. for some of our countries, it is critically important that the programmes are up and running on 1 january 2014. for some countries, the debates on institutional matters are not relevant. so it is a matter of urgency and of the highest importance that the money is ready for the programmes – for youth unemployment and so on – as soon as possible. having said this, i understand that parliament, because it felt that some of the commitments made by the council were not undertaken in due time, decided to postpone the votes that were supposed to take place in october to november. that is why, mr lamassoure, the commission came forward very late, as you said, with these elements. but let me tell you that, since the beginning of the year, the commission – commissioner lewandowski and myself – has been saying, loud and clear, that without the amending budgets there will be a rupture of payments. i have been saying this since january. that is why this year we have asked for exceptional draft amending budgets. in the trialogue with president schulz and prime minister kenny, we clearly said that, without the approval of these draft amending budgets on time, the commission would not be able to pay the bills we are supposed to pay. it is true that – precisely because the matter is so important – i myself tried to call the president of the european parliament over the weekend to ask him to at least vote on draft amending budget no 6, otherwise there would be a rupture of payments. i am asking this not on behalf of the council but on behalf of the commission. i think it is the commission’s duty to draw the attention of all the parts of the budgetary authority – council and parliament – to the negative consequences. it is true that we could probably have managed it differently, but frankly we are on record, mr lamassoure, as saying very often that, without those two amending budgets – and also the other more, let us say, restricted one, but 6 and 8 are the two important ones – there will be a rupture of payments. so we are not saying anything new. but of course, since we were expecting you to vote in october – which you have not done, because you thought that the council did not give you enough elements – putting it off to november will mean that we have a payment problem. you are trying to get the guarantees you want. that is up to you, and i do not want to interfere in this debate between you and the council. but please let us avoid a rupture of payments, which would not be in the interest of the image of the european institutions. let us work to finalise all the budgets: the draft amending budgets and the mff. i think this is feasible if all the parties, including the council – and i want to appeal very directly to the council – show the goodwill that is indispensable in matters of this importance.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, president of the commission, honourable members, since i was asked about draft amending budget no 8, i can only repeat what president barroso was saying. the political agreement on it has already been reached and has been made known in a letter to you as well .... (the president asked the speaker to wait while an interpretation problem was resolved)as i was saying, since i was asked a direct question about the council’s intention with regard to draft amending budget no 8, i can only repeat what the president of the commission was saying. the political agreement on the draft amending budget has already been reached at coreper level, and it is the council presidency’s intention to convene an extraordinary council meeting on 30 october. it is my strong expectation that after this meeting we will be able to report to you about the formal adoption by the council of draft amending budget no 8.
for the greens/efa group madam president, if i have understood the president of the commission, mr barroso, correct me, the commission needs amending budgets nos 6 and 8 to avoid default. so if the council makes a proposal on the 30th, when can the committee on budgets report to this parliament? before the 15th? there is no meeting of parliament. therefore, if we want to have everything, the solution is to hold an extraordinary sitting on the 5th: they make their proposal on the 30th, mr lamassoure convenes his committee, we have the two reports, we vote on these two reports and "everything is fine, madame the marquise!" there you go. it's simple, though, isn't it?
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, president barroso, honourable members, i am pleased to be able to present to you this morning the preparations for this weekly european council. i look forward to hearing your reactions and responses to the many important issues which are on the agenda. later this week the european council will have a further opportunity to make progress towards improving competitiveness and returning to strong and sustainable growth and job creation. president van rompuy has therefore decided to focus the debate on the following issues: firstly, tapping the potential of the digital economy, boosting innovation and repeating the benefits of a single market for services. secondly: continuing progress to combat youth unemployment, improving access to finance for the economy and regulatory fitness, and further deepening of the emu. on the digital economy, the european council will look at how europe’s industry can regain momentum through increased investment in the digital economy, promoting a consumer and business-friendly digital single market and improving it skills. to boost the digital economy and create jobs, europe needs both investment and the appropriate regulatory framework. the european council would look at this issue in the broader context, ranging from broadband speed to cloud computing. we also need to promote a consumer- and business-friendly digital friendly market. this requires us to tackle fragmentation for more effective competition and attract private investment through a predictable and stable eu-wide legal framework. we must accelerate ongoing work on the various legislative proposals in this area. here i count on the support of this parliament. we have to increase the trust of consumers and businesses in the digital economy; this requires a strong data protection framework and the modernisation of public administration. citizens and companies must all have the necessary it skills to benefit fully from the digital single market. the european council will put forward some specific proposals to address the situation. the issue of innovation was discussed by the european council in detail in february. two years on, a significant number of issues highlighted then are being complemented. however, further efforts are required at both national and european level; these include measures to ensure that the union’s intellectual and scientific potential is actually transformed into new products and services which can be sold on the markets. the european council will look at the areas which need to be addressed for the completion of the european research era by 2014. concerning services, the european council will send a strong message that member states urgently have to improve the implementation of the services directive and remove unjustified or disproportionate barriers. madam president, honourable members, as you know, last june the european councill focused on how to step up efforts to fight youth unemployment. this remains one of our top priorities, and it is the most important social challenge facing us. this week’s european council will look at and take stock of progress, in particular on the preparations for the launch of the youth employment initiative and implementation by the member states of the youth guarantee. this must become operational by 1 january 2014. the heads of state and government will also discuss concrete measures to restore normal lending to the economy and facilitate financing of investment – with particular reference to smes – on the basis of the commission and eib reports. they will address the regulatory fitness with the aim of making eu law less of a burden for those to whom it is addressed. i would like to add a few words about another important issue on this week’s agenda: economic and monetary union. although the situation of financial markets is less volatile, we must continue to make progress towards the completion of emu. this week’s european council will focus on strengthening economic policy coordinaton and the social dimension of the emu following the recent communication from the commission on this issue. heads of state or government will also come back to the issue of the banking union, our most immediate priority. the final adoption of the single supervisory mechanism and the european banking authority amending regulations are very welcome, but more needs to be done; a single supervisory mechanism is not enough. it is also essential that a bank recovery directive and a deposit guarantee directive are adopted rapidly. i count on your cooperation to help ensure that this happens. it is in any case clear that the october debate will not be the end of our discussions on emu. the european council will come back with all these issues in december as well. finally, the european council will take note of the state of play on the preparations for an eastern partnership summit to take place in vilnius on 28 and 29 november. it will also hold a discussion on the recent tragic accident off the coast of lampedusa. madam president, president of the commission, honourable members, the october european council will be a further step in our determination to return to growth and jobs and improve competitiveness in europe. we look forward to constructive discussions and concrete results, which we will be taking forward in the months to come.
president of the commission. − madam president, this week’s european council has a very broad agenda: the digital economy, innovation, services, youth unemployment, financing of the economy, regulatory fitness, emu and economic governance, emu and the social dimension, the banking union, eastern partnership and migration. my main message to the european council tomorrow is that, over the next weeks and months, the european union can – and must – achieve concrete results in all these areas. many of our initiatives can be brought to a successful conclusion even before this house rises ahead of next may’s elections. but i will make it clear that we can only deliver if there is the necessary political will among our member states. just yesterday, as you know, the commission approved a very substantial working programme for 2014. so there is a lot to do. the thematic focus of tomorrow’s european council will be on innovation and the digital agenda. digital services, telecommunications, e-government and skills are the drivers of tomorrow’s growth and productivity. even in the crisis, this is a sector that has continued to show growth potential, and we predict there will be nearly one million ict job vacancies unfilled in the coming years. this is unacceptable, given the level of youth unemployment that we face. this is why the commission has launched the grand coalition for digital jobs, a multi-stakeholder partnership to exploit the employment potential of ict. we need a thriving digital sector to drive all other parts of our economy, and the internal market for telecoms has to be at the heart of this programme. we must urgently address the underlying shortcomings and create the right environment for investment. there is now a major reform package for the telecoms sector on the table. let us all make maximum progress on this file by the end of this legislature. this package complements a number of important recent proposals on the completion of the digital single market, for example on reducing the cost of deploying high-speed broadband networks, on е-invoicing in public procurement, on cyber-security and on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions. these, too, are in your and the council’s hands, and i hope the european council will throw its weight behind the call to finalise them in the months to come. we need to build this digital single market in a manner that is consistent with our european values. that includes making sure that those who operate in the online world do not escape from fair taxation. the commission is actively working on a series of measures to fight against tax evasion in general, working with the g8, g20 and oecd. but there are some specific challenges which are posed by new digital business models which existing tax policies may not yet fully address. this is why the commission decided yesterday to set up an expert group on taxation in the digital economy, which will report by next summer. core european values, namely the respect of fundamental rights, including the right to privacy and security, also matter just as much on-line as off-line. recent disclosures concerning surveillance activities have cast a shadow on european union citizens’ trust. we need to combine the digital agenda with a better framework for the protection of data and privacy rights. trust in the data-driven economy has to be restored, not only in order to re-establish much-needed confidence but also for its potential impact on growth. i therefore strongly welcome this week’s vote in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this parliament, lending its strong support to the commission’s proposals. i want to thank parliament for the priority which it attaches to this file. we should do all we can to conclude this much-needed modernisation and strengthening of the eu data protection rules before the end of this legislature. the other thematic priority for this european council will be research and innovation. the evidence is there: member states that have continued to invest in innovation have fared better in the current crisis than those that have not. we will need to increase our efforts – public and private – to keep up with international competition. international investors are now finding their way to europe, but business research and development expenditure in the eu is far below that of our main competitors. the crisis has also taken its toll, with a decrease in public spending on r&d in 2011. europe is lagging behind, in particular in fast-growing markets and high tech. if no action is taken, the eu may miss out again on fast-growing markets linked to the technologies which tackle societal challenges. the commission has recently launched an indicator of innovation output to focus attention on the right r&d policies. but additional investment in r&d makes no sense without critical structural reforms of national research and innovation systems. the commission will continue to push for reforms to create a true european research area. we must enable the mobility of researchers and provide open access to publicly-funded research results and transnational access to research infrastructures. creating the right business environment is also key to stimulating growth. this is why the commission is removing unnecessary burdens on business across all policy areas. the commission has, since 2005, repealed 5 590 legal acts and reduced the administrative burden by eur 32.3 billion, and we are determined to go further. in our communication on regulatory fitness (refit), we have just launched a programme to further simplify legislation. we plan to withdraw some pending proposals and repeal existing laws which no longer serve their purpose. we act where action is needed at european level. we should not act where it can be done better at national or sub-national level. at the european council tomorrow i will be looking for a strong endorsement of the refit programme. but let me be clear: this is not about calling into question established policy goals, nor should it be a battle of competences between brussels and national capitals. this is about finding the right balance for using existing competences in full respect of subsidiarity and proportionality. i also expect member states to cut red tape at their level and avoid ‘gold plating’ eu legislation by adding new national burdens to european rules. this brings us, honourable members, to another issue i have repeatedly stressed in this house, as well as in the european council: financing the economy. this remains one of the biggest bottlenecks in the european economy. even with growth returning, confidence and pre-crisis lending patterns will not return quickly. we need to unblock the flow of credit and help businesses, especially smes. frankly, i am disappointed that the member states are not more ambitious here, and i will say this tomorrow to the european council. in some countries, the european union budget will be by far the most important source of public investment over the next few years. these funds will help kick-start private funding as well. this is key to future growth. the preparations for the next mff have come a very long way, but we are not yet there. we need a final push from all concerned in order to conclude. this is of the utmost importance and urgency for many of our member states and many of our regions. without the budget of the european union, they will simply not be able to invest, because they have no fiscal space to do so. i can assure you that the commission will continue to do its utmost to facilitate a fair and balanced outcome between the european parliament and the council – an outcome which is as close as possible to the commission’s level of ambition, something i know parliament shares. honourable members, you know that, together with the eib, we have also looked into other, alternative instruments for financing the economy, including forms of risk-sharing by pooling and leveraging parts of eu funds and eib loans. i will call upon member states to bring forward concrete pledges and to go beyond the status quo. we are not asking governments to renounce part of their funds, we are asking member states to increase the effect of the funds – including for the benefit of smes, which suffer the most from the fragmentation of europe’s credit markets. equally important in our comprehensive crisis response is that we move forward on the road to a deep and genuine economic and monetary union. in this sense, the european council is an intermediate step towards decisions in december, but every step is necessary. completing the banking union, in particular, is the single most significant and important advance we can make to end the unfair distortions of lending conditions in financial markets. so it must remain our absolute priority for the euro area. i congratulate the co-legislators on the final approval of the single supervisory mechanism. now we have to find a final agreement on the directive on bank recovery and resolution and a political agreement in council on the single resolution mechanism by the end of the year. our goal must be to conclude negotiations with this house in the spring. i want to thank the european parliament for its efforts and the hard work that has been done to prepare its position for these discussions. we also need to pay attention to the balance sheet assessment and forthcoming stress test exercise in the banking sector. the commission will support the european central bank and european banking authority in any way possible in that important work. we also expect member states to do their own work in terms of ensuring the availability of any necessary backstops in line with state aid rules if private solutions are not adequate, and in terms of the full cooperation of national supervisors, to bring this exercise to fruition. we have made significant progress as regards economic governance in the eu, in particular as regards the country-specific recommendations, which are the end-point of the european semester. but we must continue our efforts to strengthen economic policy coordination, in particular, within the euro area. we must make further progress on identifying the policy areas which require coordination, including ex-ante coordination. on the other hand, the implementation of the country-specific recommendations is not yet optimal. this is also due to insufficient ownership by each member state of the recommendations which are addressed to them. the widening of these to the social and employment dimensions will surely contribute to enhancing ownership. as you know, the commission has presented a communication on the social dimension of economic and monetary union. one of the core proposals is stronger surveillance of employment and social challenges and policy coordination. the role of the european parliament is crucial in this regard. the commission will cooperate with parliament to select the indicators for the alert mechanism report and will discuss with it the new scoreboard of key social and employment indicators. the commission intends to make use of those indicators in the forthcoming alert mechanism report. moreover, in the annual growth survey – to be adopted by the middle of next month – the commission will present a first overview of the implementation of the country-specific recommendations. we will spare no effort in making the european semester the real tool for economic coordination in the european union. we must also step up our efforts to fight against youth unemployment. as you know, in june the commission proposed the frontloading of the social funds so that the initial eur six billion is invested in the first two years. adopting the necessary regulations is a matter of urgency and of concern. we are approaching the programming period. the member states, with the support of the commission, are in the process of finalising the design of the youth guarantee implementation plans and youth employment initiative programmes. while moving forward on our internal priorities, we should not lose sight of our external responsibilities, particularly in our near neighbourhood. this european council will prepare the eastern partnership summit, which will take place in vilnius later in november. the european commission launched this initiative, the eastern partnership summit, back in 2009. four years later, we are now in a position to deliver on our common objective of political association and economic integration with our eastern partners. our common goal is to conclude association agreements, including deep and comprehensive free trade areas. the free will of these countries must be respected by everyone. of course, we also expect our partners to adhere to and deliver on their commitment to the reforms and to the values that underpin these partnerships. i therefore launch, from here, an appeal to ukraine to fulfil the remaining benchmarks and seize the opportunity of the extension of the cox-kwaśniewski mission. i believe the coming weeks are critically important for ukraine, and i make a strong appeal for all of us and for ukraine to make progress in that process. last of all – and importantly – after the awful and all-too-frequent tragedies in the mediterranean, migration policy too will feature heavily at this european council. as you know, i was in lampedusa two weeks ago, on an invitation from the italian authorities, and of course i was profoundly moved by what i saw. the images will remain impressed on me for ever. i was there to express the european commission’s understanding and solidarity with the local and national authorities and to the people of lampedusa, as well as to offer concrete aid to the italian authorities, which we have done. we must all do more to prevent tragedies like this. i hope the european council will pave the way for a new chapter in the common management, common responsibility and cooperative management at european union level of migration policies. there are no magic bullets or immediate solutions, and we need to be realistic. but the character and scale of the problem calls for stronger measures to organise search-and-rescue operations to save lives in danger, to better protect our borders, to effectively tackle the criminal networks behind the migration flows and to protect those in need. in this sense, and knowing well that most responsibilities and competences lie at national level, more has to be done at european level in terms of cooperation with countries of origin and transit and of member states’ efforts on resettlement. it is quite clear that europe cannot turn its back when faced with this kind of humanitarian tragedy. these elements form part of the solution, but first and foremost we need the political will. the commission is doing its part and, for example, has now been asked by governments to lead a task force together with member states and eu agencies such as frontex, the european asylum support office (easo) and europol. we must not allow the momentum on such vital issues to be fuelled by tragedies alone. in conclusion, in all these files, we need to get the solutions where they can be found, working together to make them really produce results. i think there are no excuses, and the opportunity to go forward before the elections is there. there are efforts directly aimed at the welfare of our citizens, but there are also efforts which are critically important for the credibility of our institutions, to show that in fact we bring solutions to the problems of our citizens. i am convinced we can continue to work on this together in the spirit of achieving results. i thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting tomorrow, the council will deal with the issues which our parliament has already dealt with: banking union and the completion of economic and monetary union. today, any event that affects one of our capitals has repercussions on the others. in fact, we are becoming more integrated. so we need to create the legislative framework that allows our economies to work better together. this is important. another point which should finally be on the agenda for final settlement but which unfortunately is not on the agenda is the cfp. i am like everyone else, and i made it very clear in this parliament two days ago, that i no longer understand how the council works. i am not accusing the president here, but i repeat that i no longer understand how the council works. parliament has been clear. the deficit of 3.9 billion for 2013 was to be settled and i believe we even signed. we have asked for a review clause and for the establishment of the high-level group on an own resources system. these were reasonable requests and we were confident that they had been granted. that 3.9 billion is not extra money that's decided. ladies and gentlemen, we shall not be able to get out of this unless we put the three billion in bills which the commission has on the council's table tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and then they will decide who will not be reimbursed. it is not parliament's money, it is money that has been spent on projects that have been accepted and are not being funded. so we can do whatever we want here, but we must, mr president of the commission, put all the unpaid bills, which we cannot pay because that is the way the treaty is set up, on the council's table. they are the ones who will say to each other: 'france will not have this, greece will not have that', and who will say to all the other countries: 'this is what we are not going to pay you for'. for example, the discount in england, we can't pay it this year, we will pay it next year, we will postpone it. all these things we now have to deal with as a business leader. i've always been told i don't understand management, but institutions are like companies. you can put off a deficit for a year, two years, but the third year, you're stuck. by whom? by the bankers. and we're going to be in the same situation. so we simply have to say to our heads of state and government: "gentlemen, ok, you ask us for the 3.9 billion, you don't want to pay it, so decide between yourselves!" why are we getting so worked up here? we have no right to run a deficit, so let us put the bills on the council's table so that it can decide who will not be reimbursed. we cannot tolerate what happened this week, it's not possible. we're going to have a deficit of over 20 billion in 2014. everybody says that. so if that's the case, let's get around the table to see what actions we're not funding, what actions we're not implementing. we do not launch our regions, our different countries into different actions and say to them at the end of the year: "gentlemen, i am sorry, we have made you spend money and there are 24 billion that we cannot pay". that's how states went bankrupt. we have done the two-pack and the six-pack to avoid this and we are being forced to adopt this system at european level. i think we simply have to return to common sense, i would even say common sense of the peasant: we cannot spend more than we have! i would like to say to the council, the commission and parliament: let us sit down together! mr farage, it is certain that we will no longer be able to pay the members who want subsidiarity (that is not a problem, it is just a small remark)! tomorrow's exactly the same. they want to invest in innovation, promote a single telecommunications market... we spend money on councils, billions and billions that we don't have. so we have to go back to things that are much simpler and more down to earth. but it is true that in this modernization, in these european investments, there are about 900 000 jobs that can be put on the table with the new technologies and everything that goes with them. we just have to be realistic. instead of looking for ourselves, we should try to find ourselves and sit around the table to decide who does what. indeed, my dear presidents, dear presidency of the council, do you think it would have been difficult, as mr dany said, to put in the same letter the 2.7 billion and the 3.9 billion that were supposedly decided and on which coreper and everyone agreed? two more sentences would have been enough and the problem was solved. now, frankly, you take us for fools, excuse me for the term! i am very much aware of the manner in which the last two weeks have been spent with the cfp. i'll tell you one more thing, i'll go one more step further. i was told last week, at the level of the commission's technicians and others, that in any case - and i agree with that - voting on the mff 15 days later in a comprehensive package would not have changed anything. nothing, because the bills that are on the table, if you pay them two weeks later, you don't have a cash flow problem. you know that as well as i do. so it wasn't those two weeks that changed things. what i don't understand is that after that, we try 2.7, 3.9. but now i understand: if some countries push back the deadline by a fortnight or three weeks, they will not have to issue money this year, they will issue it next year. that is what the united kingdom is proposing when it proposes a delay of 15 days: it will avoid having to withdraw the money. tell us if that's what it is. even that we can understand. we're responsible people. i'm not saying we accept it, but we can understand it. let us not try to hijack the system as it is! i shall speak very strongly tomorrow in this direction at the epp summit, because i do not want to continue in this way. if we cannot work honestly with each other, we will have to find other solutions and block them. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group madam president, colleagues, first of all, joseph, good luck when you come back with your 24 billion... i'll tell you what. the european political culture is the culture of 'too late'. we're always late. guy just told us, it took 15 years to make an immigration policy. i think we should be clear about this. the effectiveness of frontex depends on the effectiveness of a legal immigration policy and an asylum law that is understandable and can work. if this does not work, frontex cannot guarantee that the mediterranean will not become a tomb. let's stop with the mirage. it's very simple. frontex was working when europe was negotiating the stopping of immigrants with dictatorships across the mediterranean. it was then that it worked and, for lack of a better word, the dictatorships disappeared and we suddenly discover the problem. we were cynics and we want to continue to be cynics. that's the problem. so, yes, we need a european immigration law that regulates legal entry for professional reasons. secondly, yes, we need a right to asylum which is not a sanctuary, leaving the responsibility for the right to asylum to the border countries, that is to say italy, southern or eastern europe, while germany and the others would be sanctuarized, sheltered behind their airports. this is not european solidarity. thirdly, and this must be made very clear, if the european council does not respond to the problem of immigration, which is a difficult and contradictory problem in our societies, it will be the driving force behind the growth of populism in our countries. if we are not able to do something, then the rhetoric of "we must" we must close the borders, we must leave europe, we must leave the euro, we must give a hand to globalization will prevail, because we are incapable. it is therefore much more important that this european council should put the brakes on things. you talk about citizens, but citizens expect that. one more point, to get back to the budget. let us explain to the citizens that we need the european budget for european solidarity. the debate we are having on the budget is a great victory - i have already said this - for margaret thatcher. we have 27 finance ministers who can only say one thing: "we want our money back!". with this kind of talk, we are destroying europe. let us admit that we want to destroy europe, but let us not say that we are building europe, when we are destroying it! but no one knows how to do that. that is why i think it is a mistake and i tell you: if you do not at least get the amending budget we will be in deficit in 2013 anyway, even with the 3.9 billion, it will be a catastrophe in 2014. you will be in arrears not in november, mr barroso, but in may! in may, you will be in arrears, just after the european elections. so if you want to be responsible for europe, you have to engage in a showdown with the council. if you say "we must talk, we must be nice" we can be nice to people who want to negotiate, but in the face of a council that does not want to negotiate, we must enter into a balance of power if you do not want to enter into a balance of power, do not cry and go home. because if you cry when you have done nothing, i tell you, you will be swept away in the european elections because you have not shown that you are a parliament that defends the citizens!
madam president, i note that we are preparing a european council without president van rompuy present. i note that the question of economic and monetary union was added to this agenda because it could not be dealt with in june, because we were waiting for the outcome of the elections in germany, and i note that the european council in october will probably have to postpone the substantive discussion on a genuine economic and monetary union to the european council in december, because it is waiting for a government in germany. in the meantime, the question of youth employment is on the table. so, ladies and gentlemen, heads of state and government, take this matter seriously and authorize 25% of the esf funding so that the youth guarantee can be a reality and we can support young people in a situation of failure up to the age of 30. on the subject of genuine economic and monetary union, you will for the first time be addressing the debate from the point of view of the social dimension. it is very paradoxical, because you say - everyone says - that we must promote social dialogue. but in the same conclusions of the european council you address a point called refit, in short, the cleaning up of european legislation, and in that context you ask that an agreement concluded between the social partners be removed from the agenda. there is a contradiction here that i do not understand. finally, the day you want to discuss a genuine economic and monetary union, you will have to discuss the economic model of the euro zone. because it is not through the logic of sanctions or the discourse on macroeconomic conditions that you will allow citizens from the periphery of the euro area to live and work there, which is the model that most europeans aspire to.
mr president, my first words will be to congratulate the president of the european council for bringing our heads of state and government together on thematic issues. tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, growth and employment, in december defence, in march energy. that's good. i regret, however, mr president - i do not know whether it was you who failed to invite him - that mr van rompuy is not here to discuss all these matters with the european parliament. a word on the major infrastructure plan which was agreed in june. thank you for taking up this idea at the european council. now we need to be more specific. we do not need 60 or 100 billion, we need 1 to 1 500 billion over a decade for digital, transport and energy, with the idea that we can also introduce compulsory contributions from the consumers of these services. yeah, you need a big investment plan. this is the condition for the confidence of our fellow citizens in their continent.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, at a time when the current system, which relies on the member states' contributions for the bulk of the european budget, is proving to be exhausting and when the debate is raging about the introduction of a macroeconomic condition which would amount to a double penalty for the member states in the greatest difficulty, i regret that my proposal, twice set out in my reports, calling for the exclusion of capital expenditure from the calculation of the public deficit, has been systematically rejected by the epp and the liberals. i heard mr barroso say this morning that some member states have no investment capacity other than the european budget. so let us make sure that they have it and let us not penalize the member states that contribute to an investment budget, because that is what the european budget is. the six-monthly report should take greater account of the impact of the european budget on the economic and budgetary prospects of the member states in terms of growth, employment and innovation. that is what i wanted to say, mr president, in my recommendations on behalf of the committee on budgets.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the written report before us is the result of fruitful joint reflection, and i thank the rapporteur for that. the epp group supports the european commission's approach to country-specific recommendations aimed at promoting growth and employment. these recommendations are, as parliament had requested, more detailed. they provide more information on the implementation of the obligations to which states are committed. it should be noted that the progress made by several member states has enabled them to exit and end the excessive deficit procedures. progress still needs to be made, but there is now a positive development in the economies of the member states, and even in this subprogramme of financial assistance. this is evidence that the general direction of the economic and budgetary policies chosen by the member states, namely the consolidation of public finances, structural reforms and a focus on international competitiveness, is beginning to bear fruit. the recommendations are proposed by the european commission, but they are adopted by the member states in july. these are now council recommendations to the member states. it is therefore important that the member states respect their commitments, which will make it possible to get out of the crisis once and for all, to revive growth and create jobs. we have to face the majority of the problems we have faced, but we have to recognize that these problems are mostly due to mistakes at the national level, which were made in the past and sometimes for decades. to blame the crisis on some obscure forces, be they speculators, the foreigners or a supposedly ill-intentioned troika, would be to make a serious misdiagnosis. you can't cure a patient on a diagnosis of complacency. those who use the recommendations to dispose of themselves and fuel euroscepticism are taking on a dangerous responsibility.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, this report allows us to assess the specific recommendations for 2013. what do we see? it is that again, in these country-specific recommendations, one of the key problems of the functioning of the euro area, which is the question of the interdependencies between the economic and the social question, between the member states, cannot be dealt with in this way. we also find that many of these recommendations are very prescriptive. i am thinking in particular of some recommendations on pension reform, an area where we know that in each member state social dialogue must be at the heart of the capacity of those states to reform their systems. i also note that for the first time, and we welcome this, recommendations have been made in the fight against poverty. on the other hand, there has clearly been censorship of the situation of women in certain labour markets. we regret this, because it is dishonest to look at the employment situation in any member state without also looking at what is happening from the point of view of the situation of women. we also have a meeting with the european commission to tell them how we envisage the annual growth review they are to propose to us for next year. in this context, we first of all call on the commission to take account of these interdependencies, to draw all the lessons from the macroeconomic imbalance procedure and also to ensure that, even if this area falls within the scope of subsidiarity, taxation issues, which must allow the taxation of capital and labour to be rebalanced, are also at the heart of the proposals.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you, mrs ferreira and all the rapporteurs for this work which shows that we are making progress. i think that the six-month period is gradually coming to an end and that, on the one hand, the recommendations are more detailed and, on the other hand, social issues are being taken more into account. i am also very sensitive to the fact that you have taken into account the issue of poverty, and the idea that efforts must be symmetrical in surplus and deficit countries. i have two concerns, however. the first is interdependence. i believe that we must go even further in taking account of the overall vision for the euro area as a whole. we are a little too much in the logic of everyone must do their homework, as they say in an unbearable way in the press. it's not homework, it's not school. it is a question of having a good responsibility for the whole area. secondly, there is the problem of what we do not call ownership, that is to say the appropriation by the national authorities and by the citizens of what is done at european level. i do not agree that the commission has been too intrusive and i would ask you, commissioner, to be extremely firm and to do everything that parliament and the finance ministers ask you to do on the basis of the six-pack and the two-pack. you must be detailed enough so that the member states know what they have to do. then they have to take responsibility. one last thing about the troika. i have no problem with the policy being pursued, i am simply saying that in terms of appropriation, it should also be much more accountable.
chairman of the budg committee. thank you, madam president, before the president of the council takes the floor, i would like to address him and the new commissioner for the budget, whom i congratulate on his promotion. i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, giovanni la via and monika hohlmeier, and thank all the other members for the massive votes. i now turn to the presidency. this impressive vote is the strongest message to the council. tomorrow this parliament will vote on an amending budget to save the commission from a complete cash-flow shortage. the union is not threatened with a shutdown, contrary to what has been said rather clumsily on the part of the commission. but she's no longer able to honor her commitments. the vote today therefore opens a jumbo budget negotiation, which will deal with the multiannual framework, 2013 payments and the 2014 budget in the coming month. everyone will have to take responsibility. if the council refuses to reinstate the additional €1 billion we have just adopted, the union will not only be short of cash, it will be in default next year. no member of this parliament here can accept leaving his successors a union which is in default.
the rapporteur. - madam president, there was confusion earlier, and president mato explained it well. the amendment is not a problem if it is placed in that position. i would like to thank my colleagues for standing up in a mass way.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to inform my colleagues that the adoption of the commission's proposal as amended allows the committee on fisheries to start negotiations with the council immediately.
in writing. in the fight against drug trafficking, i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution which will make it possible to deal more responsively and effectively with the trade in drug precursors between the eu and third countries. drug precursors are legal products that are used in the manufacture of drugs, through their trade and therefore subject to controls when exported to prevent diversion of these products by drug traffickers. the draft amends the european commission's proposal which organises this control and which determines in particular which substances are controlled.
in writing. drug precursors are legal substances, sometimes used in the manufacture of illicit drugs. they are subject to import and export controls, but medicines are currently exempt. yet, some drugs are misused to make drugs. the text aims to pay particular attention to the medicinal products concerned by establishing specific monitoring. this is an important step towards a stronger fight against illicit drugs in the eu.
in writing. drug precursors are legal substances used in the manufacture of drugs. two substances in particular, ephedrine and pseudo-ephedrine, which are found in medicines to treat colds, are very easily extracted and used by drug traffickers to make methamphetamine. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the measures to include medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudo-ephedrine. the fight against drug trafficking requires constant vigilance and responsiveness on the part of the european union and its member states. by cutting off drug traffickers' access to their key ingredients for drug manufacture, the union will help tackle this problem at its source more effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of strengthening the fight against the illicit use of ephedrine for the manufacture of drugs. given the scale of this phenomenon, the union needs to put in place appropriate legislation. i therefore support the idea that any export of medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine should be preceded by a pre-export notification sent by the competent authorities of the union to the competent authorities of the country of destination, as is already the case for other substances.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague, mr franck proust, which aims to establish surveillance and control of certain legal substances used in the manufacture of drugs when they are exported, imported or in transit with third countries. in order to limit the risk of circumvention of the legislation, rapid intervention and temporary surveillance clauses have also been introduced. i welcome the wide adoption of this report, with 583 votes in favour, 58 against and 39 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on trade in drug precursors between the community and third countries, which lays down rules for the surveillance of substances which are legal but used in the manufacture of drugs. the text provides for the extension of temporary surveillance to new substances and introduces some flexibility to adapt to new trends in the diversion of these substances. a rapid response mechanism would also allow authorities to seize consignments where there is sufficient suspicion of diversion.
in writing. this report proposes to fill a legal gap in the regulation laying down rules for the monitoring of trade in drug precursors between the european union and third countries. these precursors have a variety of lawful uses (medicinal, cosmetic, etc.) and are legally marketed. but some of these substances can also be diverted from the legal distribution channels and used for the manufacture of narcotics. the proposal therefore aims to impose stricter controls on these products and to improve border controls on them. the report's merit is that it targets traffickers before consumers. the commission is also proposing to establish a european database containing information on seizures and interceptions. i vote for it.
in writing. in order to encourage the fight against drug trafficking, in particular the diversion of drug precursors, i.e. those substances which, like acetic anhydride, are used in the manufacture of amphetamines, cocaine and heroin, i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the legislative resolution also seeks to strengthen certain elements of the commission proposal, particularly with regard to data protection.
in writing. i supported the hedh report which aims to counter the diversion of chemicals from legal distribution channels. the union's drug policy is a priority. it considered that the monitoring and control of trade in chemicals which could be used for the manufacture of drugs should be strengthened. acetic anhydride is the main precursor to heroin. i therefore welcome the report's proposal to impose compulsory registration with the competent authorities on operators who market acetic anhydride, but also on users who hold it for their own use.
in writing. drug precursors are legal substances that are sometimes misused to produce illicit drugs. in adopting this text, we envisage the introduction of a stricter regulatory framework, paying particular attention to the collection of data and the registration of drug precursors. this is a breakthrough in the european fight against drugs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of strengthening the fight against the illicit diversion of acetic anhydride for the manufacture of heroin. i believe that it is legitimate to impose registration requirements on the end users of this substance, as well as on the operators who market it. i think this is a coherent measure to prevent drug trafficking, and in particular the manufacture of heroin in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague anna hedh, which aims to prevent the diversion of intra-eu trade in products used for the manufacture of heroin. the text will lead to an obligation to register users of substances and to greater harmonisation of the provisions on such registration. i welcome the adoption of this report by a very large majority of 575 votes in favour, 34 against and 54 abstentions.
in writing. drug precursors are substances used by the chemical and pharmaceutical industries and also used in illicit drugs, such as ephedrine used to produce amphetamines or pmks used in ecstasy. drug traffickers are constantly inventing new ways to circumvent the very strict regulations governing the trade in these products, for example by setting up shell companies. the european parliament has therefore updated the legislation to take account of innovations by traffickers, without preventing legitimate economic operators from trading in these products. i voted in favour of this text because it strengthens the european union's capacity to combat drug trafficking. member states will be able to seize medicinal products if there is suspicion of illicit use. a european database on shipments and seizures of goods will be created. finally, a rapid response mechanism will enable the european commission and the member states to take account of the new diversionary tactics used by traffickers as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to combat drug trafficking, in particular heroin. one chemical is acetic anhydride, which is used as a precursor in the manufacture of heroin and which 75% of seizures worldwide reveal to have been manufactured in europe. it is essential to remedy this situation. if precursors are manufactured for legal use, as in the case of pharmaceuticals, we must prevent their diversion to the drug trade and thus strengthen control of this trade. the registration of operators selling anhydride should be harmonised at european level, and the registration of users should be made compulsory in order to better control this market.
in writing. the diversion of chemicals from the legal trade chain to the illicit production of drugs is a phenomenon we must combat. the monitoring of transactions through clear registration authorisation requirements may be the means. however, the establishment of a european-wide database, the purpose of which is not clearly established, is highly questionable. this is all the more so as the types of personal data that may be processed and stored in the european database represent the traditional risk in this area. this is particularly so as the procedures for informing, accessing, correcting, deleting and blocking the data processed in that database are left to the discretion of the commission by means of delegated acts. i'm not going to.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution allowing for full transparency in the european judicial system. launched in 2008, the e-justice portal provides european citizens with a broad access to union law and case law. the proposal for a resolution has the merit of proposing to widen even further this access to legal information from the union while providing certain tools to facilitate the efficient and rapid functioning of european justice. for example, the european order for payment procedure or the small claims procedure.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which recognises the benefits that convergence between new technologies and justice could bring to citizens, while also reducing costs. it calls for better access to online justice, whether through electronic applications or the use of videoconferencing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the action plan on e-justice 2014-2020 presented by the european commission. we welcomed the role of the e-justice portal launched in 2010, which aims to make justice and the legal system more accessible to citizens, as well as to improve cooperation between practitioners and member states' administrations. e-justice systems reduce the cost of judicial and administrative procedures, in particular through the automation of the exchange of information, the distribution of official documents and the translation of certain procedural documents. we have highlighted the potential of e-justice to facilitate the use of certain european instruments, such as the european order for payment procedure or the european criminal records information system (ecris). the provision of multilingual standard forms could also facilitate administrative procedures. i voted in favour of this text, which sends a positive signal for the continuation of european work on the subject of e-justice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on e-justice to encourage the development of an effective tool that allows for wider access to legal and judicial information and helps to reduce the costs of judicial and administrative procedures, in particular through the automation of information exchange. the e-justice web portal, which provides information on legal systems across the european union in 22 languages, should be developed and offer new applications such as online training tools.
in writing. online justice is a defensible project if it aims to facilitate citizens' access to knowledge of their rights or better judicial cooperation between professionals, and only when freedoms are guaranteed. obviously not here. this resolution advances a dehumanized idea of justice via videoconferencing. it also represents a serious threat to freedoms because of the interconnection of files. the advantage in terms of reductions in public costs is clear, but this is accommodated by the development of a lucrative market and left in the hands of the private sector. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it very clearly states the wish of the european parliament to suspend the swift agreement, which allows the mass exchange of data with the usa in the name of the fight against terrorism. but the actions of the us intelligence community have swept away all individual freedoms and the basic rights of our fellow citizens. however, the resolution only proposes the suspension of the swift agreement pending explanations concerning the acts of which the us authorities are accused. i would have liked, quite simply, to see this agreement scrapped, as well as the negotiations on the eu-us free trade agreement.
mr president, madam high representative, you are the custodian of a european foreign policy which is facing an impossible challenge. on the one hand, there is a growing demand from our citizens and partners for a collective response to diplomatic and security challenges. where is europe? what is europe doing? this is what we hear in our capitals, in our public opinion, and from lampedusa to nairobi, from aleppo to bamako. on the other hand, there are prerogatives and capacities of initiative which are the result of an increasingly feeble national political will and a shrinking national capacity. the brok report we are presenting today is aimed at reducing this gap, which is a death knell for europe, on the international scene. the main danger is dispersion, the inability to give us collectively realistic priorities, particularly in a context of budget cuts, as you have rightly pointed out. the aim is not to plant the european flag everywhere at the same time, everywhere on principle, everywhere we should go. the goal is to be where we have interests and values to defend. the goal is to be where we're expected, where we're expected, but most importantly, where we can be effective. the credibility of europe is undoubtedly at stake in our neighbourhood, both east and south: the balkans, the middle east, africa and the caucasus. if we do not play a major role in these regions, there is no point in having any influence on the international scene or, above all, in hoping to convince our fellow citizens of the relevance of the european project. that is why i welcome the actions you have taken in the balkans, in the horn of africa, elsewhere in north africa, notably in egypt, but these actions must be increased and must above all receive the voluntary consent of our member states.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, we shall be taking advantage of the plenary session to continue our usual debates. when i hear you criticize what you call the so-called eu missions and operations, in particular the atalante mission, but also the eutm, eutm somalia training missions which you were able to see on the ground with me in uganda, and whose efficiency, professionalism and merits you were able to measure, but also eutm mali, i still wonder how bad faith you are in this judgment which is a bit hasty and which completely contradicts the judgment i have just heard from our excellent colleague, charles tannock, who praised the merits of these european missions. so, can you tell me where the consistency of your policy line is?
mr president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, over the last 30 years the arctic has lost 15% of its surface area and 40% of its thickness because of our greenhouse gas emissions. and, cynical as it may seem, crime pays off in the end. crime pays off because those who produce the co2, those who go to get it, will be able to get it a little bit more in the arctic, because the arctic is a victim of our greenhouse gas emissions. greenpeace activists remind us of our responsibilities. the arctic cannot be a playground for the big energy companies, the arctic cannot be a no-go zone. mr president, i am sorry to say this, but gazprom is not yet the 29th state of the european union! i hear that you are coordinating, that you are monitoring the situation, but we expect a much stronger voice from the european union on this matter. we have to save the arctic, we have to save the climate. it is a question of democracy, and i expect the european institutions to be much stronger and the european states to finally tell mr putin and gazprom that they cannot do anything.
mr president, as a former director of greenpeace france, i would like to thank greenpeace very much for having, through its action, denounced the risks associated with oil exploitation in the arctic, since it is a very risky exploitation and, in the event of an accident, the recovery of oil is almost impossible in the ice. but that raises two problems. first, how can we help them get out of prison? on this point, i appeal to the presidency of parliament, the presidency of the commission and european diplomacy to show real political will to put pressure on the russian government. the second question is, how can we make the arctic a sanctuary? it is well known that it is impossible to exploit this region without exposing the entire planet to enormous risks. we need to sanctify this arctic site.
for the greens/efa group madam president, this is a very important directive which we are going to vote on tomorrow, as it deals with the health hazards of ionizing radiation to workers, the general public and patients. i was pleased that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety voted in favour of a change in the legal basis, even though this is contrary to the wishes of the rapporteur and the commission. why is it necessary to change the legal basis? how can we now say that the members of parliament will not have the right to take part in the decision on the basis of radiation protection? this is of interest to the health of our fellow citizens, in the event of an accident, in the medical field and in the field of natural radioactivity, for example. it is absolutely necessary to change the legal basis and i hope that on thursday everyone will vote in favour of strengthening the power of parliamentarians. because make no mistake: the experts at euratom are people who work in the nuclear industry, so they are both judges and parties. the second point - and i agree with the commission - is that everything relating to radon should be added, contrary to what the rapporteur says. why would you do that? the world health organization says that radon is a public health problem. at present we have only recommendations and no recommendations on radon levels, both in homes and in public places. it is therefore very important to incorporate these recommendations on radon, as well as those on environmental protection, since they concern radioactive discharges. the last point, and i am addressing this to my colleagues, is that the problem with this directive is that it anticipates the nuclear accident. i don't know if you can see the reference levels for our colleague's intervention, but it can go up to 20 millisieverts in an accident. this is exactly what is happening in fukushima. when we consider the risk of thyroid disease or cancer that this can cause, these are unacceptable reference levels. it is essential to reduce these levels for nuclear workers in relation to the development of subcontracting. in france, i can tell you, all subcontractors ask for a threshold of 6 and not 20 millisieverts per year, as stated in the directive. so much more needs to be done to protect citizens, patients and workers, and i hope that our vote tomorrow will be in that direction.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, tomorrow the european parliament will approve the political agreement reached on 19 june with the council and the commission on the 7th environment action programme, and i look forward to that. this is a very great success for parliament, which fought to bring this programme into being. this programme sets out the broad guidelines for european environmental policy up to 2020, with nine priority objectives and a set of concrete commitments to improve the state of the environment in europe and worldwide. today, the challenges remain: pressure on natural resources, degradation of ecosystems, energy consumption, air and soil pollution, waste - especially marine waste - health risks and climate change. in my report and throughout the negotiations, i have been committed to advocating an environmental policy which is both ambitious and realistic in the face of the difficult economic environment and international challenges. first, i called for a high level of protection of natural capital and biodiversity, in line with my longstanding commitment to forests, seas and oceans, endangered species like bees, and protected species like wolves. in these times of economic crisis and austerity, emphasising environmental policy might seem secondary. but it's not. environmental action does have costs, but it also has benefits which public finances and private investors cannot ignore in the present period. this is why environmental concerns should no longer be the adjustment variable, but should be integrated very early on into the various sectoral policies. by proposing an overall scheme, this programme is presented as the founding act of a european green new deal, bringing greener growth and creating jobs. this new deal is based on an economy which innovates, which uses energy and raw materials efficiently, which produces and consumes in an intelligent way, avoiding waste, while preserving the competitiveness of enterprises. to be better accepted and applied, european environmental legislation must be based on a sound scientific basis, be more coherent and simplified, and respect the principles of smart regulation. i welcome the commission's communication on a sharpened and efficient regulation, 'refit'. the implementation of this legislation must be stepped up with determination throughout the european union through increased inspections and controls. the effectiveness of european funding in the environmental field will also need to be improved in order to ensure tangible results on the ground. the communication of the union on its environmental policy will also have to be reviewed. more education is needed. i shall end with the international aspects. it was important to recognise in this report the need for a legal framework beyond 2020 for europe's climate and energy policy. but the union must get third countries to commit themselves as much as it does in this area. we must also avoid the pitfall of commercial naivety by fighting environmental dumping and unfair competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
the rapporteur. - madam president, thank you all for your commitment to this text. the aim is now to ensure that the commitments made by the union and the member states under this programme are effectively met and that european environmental legislation is fully implemented. we must end with the great incantations. everyone has to take responsibility. it is a duty of credibility towards the european citizens and our planet. i would like to thank very sincerely my fictitious colleagues from the other political groups, with a special thought for jo leinen, who cannot be here tonight, and my colleague mr seeber, who has also been very helpful to me. i also thank commissioner potočnik for his unwavering commitment to this matter. i also thank the irish presidency for its motivation and its great efficiency.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's debate is very much in keeping with the times. the european commission has just published a new proposal. the european council will discuss this afternoon the ways forward for a digital single market. my report was drawn up before this new text, but the unanimity with which it was voted in the committee on industry, research and technology validated both the method and the substance. i am glad of that because parliament has spoken. we know that digital is one of the main drivers of growth. we expected the telecom package and its transposition to accelerate the investments made by the sector. we have not been entirely satisfied with this. of course, the transposition of the package took longer than expected. it was set for may 2011, but the last member state did not complete it until january 2013. but that is not the only reason for our dissatisfaction. so my report is based on this general observation. i balance the objectives of the package against the facts, trying to draw lessons from it on what could be improved. i mention a number of points which have worked, such as the co-regulation mechanism, which has improved regulatory coherence within europe, but also, and this is the whole importance of this report, other elements which should be changed. i am thinking of harmonisation of frequencies, better coordination of licensing schedules and other subjects which we have been calling for for a long time, such as the question of the inclusion of broadband in the universal service. the commission promised us that it would put forward a proposal on this during the negotiations on the package in 2009. it's 2013 and so far i haven't seen anything coming. i think we could have built on this foundation, seizing the opportunities that the framework offers, such as the identification of transnational markets, a first step towards the famous digital single market. the commission has chosen another strategy and has published this new proposal for a regulation on which, according to its terms, the collectors are required to reach a result before the end of the parliamentary term. but, madam commissioner, without obviating the difficult situation in which we find ourselves, we need time for consultation and debate in order to avoid legislation by the skin of our teeth and to ensure legal coherence for the players in the sector. the cure must not be worse than the disease. our european digital players need to be stimulated, but above all they need stability, visibility and above all not an increase in complexity with the creation, under the guise of simplification, of a rather complex system of single authorizations whose added value has yet to be demonstrated, if i believe my initial consultations. the commission's duty, but also its privilege, is to propose, not to impose. we feel, it must be said, pressured to achieve a result at all costs. that is why i largely agree with my colleague mr chichester's question. another example: since 2009, we have been waiting for binding legislation on net neutrality. we could welcome the fact that this theme is present in the proposal, but we expected the commission to provide answers, to clarify the definitions, to give the necessary guarantees. in this case, there is every reason to believe that we are dealing with a beautiful architecture, but whose cornerstone, the definition of what a user can expect from his access to the best effort internet would still be unstable. there are good things, like spectrum, but that's not enough. of course, we need initiatives, but we also need perspective. we are pragmatic in parliament. it is not a question of philosophical reflection. we are all convinced of the benefits of a single market, but the question is to provide the right tools to create real leverage. i do not think it is possible to revise the regulations in six months, but we can use the time between now and the elections to develop a solid framework which the next parliament can take up.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to reassure you. we are a responsible parliament and as my colleagues have said this morning, we are fully aware of our responsibility to legislate on a text that provides linkage, consistency, a text that gives investors confidence to create jobs for the benefit of consumers. we know our specifications. you made us an offer. we will be able to identify what is prioritized and what should be mobilized to work usefully for our fellow citizens. i am also pleased that the council is today discussing a comprehensive digital strategy. i was expecting in the proposal that you have submitted to us an industrial strategy, guidelines on standardization and, of course, a number of taxation directions. i listened to mr barroso yesterday and i very much appreciated the fact that an expert group has been set up to work specifically on the taxation aspect. in view of all that is on the table, the whole of parliament, together with the other rapporteurs, will be working towards the end of its term of office to find out what is useful to enable the next parliament to continue. that is our intention. we have no intention of working without achieving a result. we know that we will also be judged by the voters, who are waiting for answers to these questions. we have worked on data protection, the cloud, consumer rights, contracts, transparency and this parliament can boast of significant results which show that it is also an example in the world. but we know we have to accelerate to keep up with the technological evolution and meet the next challenges. you can rest assured, madam commissioner, that we will work, but we will work freely, intensively, and we will be able to present our results to all our fellow citizens. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to say one more thing because i have a question. you said, madam commissioner, that you do not like - and i quote you - people who do not tell the truth. i think that everyone in this house has spoken with sincerity. the debate was useful and i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your contribution.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you, commissioner, for your tribute to the work of parliament on the wine-related aspects of the reform of the common organization of the market. i think you have indeed been quite faithful to the point that parliament has wished to make and i also want to thank you for the collaborative work we have been able to do to work together for viticulture. it is true that the evaluation that was made public, in accordance with what had been agreed in 2008, caused some disruption in the wine sector, which saw this as the beginning of a new reform. i believe that we have just adopted a number of provisions which are a repeat of or supplementary to those of 2008, and that it is indeed now necessary for these measures to be implemented, for the texts to be published as soon as possible and for the sector to be able to take advantage of these new tools. i would like to add to those you have mentioned what we have incorporated for the power of producer organisations. the wine sector is a sector which is generally quite well organised, but which can do even better. the sector must take advantage of the existing tools in terms of producer organisation and interprofessional cooperation. i would also ask you, commissioner, to launch without delay the information campaigns which your staff have announced more or less on quality signs. the wine sector is a sector with a future in europe if quality is strengthened and recognized. the european quality labels are not well known, too little known to the european consumer. we have an urgent need to communicate about this. as regards the promotion measures, i would simply like to emphasize that they must help to promote responsible consumption, particularly in the new wine-consuming countries.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for being here, even though we were not able to make a report. i think this discussion is extremely useful and i join michel dantin in his thanks. i think the institutions have done a good collective job which - as the debate shows - satisfies reasonable people who are willing to reorient measures a bit from 2008. on the subject of cap reform, i think we can be very pleased that we have managed to reorganise planting rights in a smarter way and to guarantee them for a while, thanks to work that has avoided surpluses that were both of poor quality and extremely costly. i would like to stress two points: the importance of quality and that of free trade agreements. on this last point, we have a battle to fight. i am very much counting on you in the house to ensure that in the coming months the free trade agreement with the united states will allow the protection of all protected names and geographical indications which, as several colleagues have pointed out, are the real spearhead of our exports. i think we should leave the message for the future to the next commission - of which you may be a member, commissioner, and i hope you will have your portfolio - that we must work with a long-term perspective. europe is stronger when we are able to take measures that set a framework, that leave time for investment. and investment in wine is not an investment made overnight, especially, for example, in cognac: not only must wine be made, but it must also be allowed to rest in barrels. i therefore want an approach which is not limited to the short-term competitiveness aspect, but a long-term approach in our foreign partnerships and in relation to our investments.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank you for your involvement and attention in the work carried out by the high level group. in 2008, the social democrats agreed on the need for reform of the wine sector and wanted a coherent political strategy for the future of the sector, which would allow for both rapid and lasting stabilisation of the markets and the restructuring of the sector, while maintaining the incomes of the players in this sector. i welcome the fact that our assembly has allowed certain corrections to the 2008 cmo in the most recent reform of the cap. i want to start by talking about the replacement of planting rights with planting permits. without this correction, the sector would have been exposed to many disappointments. i would also like to stress the adaptations to national support programmes which will make it possible to carry out information campaigns on responsible wine consumption and quality systems of origin and to undertake research on environmental quality and food safety. i ask the commission to pay particular attention to the concept of trademark and geographical indications and not to create confusion between vintage wines and wine appellations in future texts.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for being here today. i would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the remarkable work done for many years and many terms by astrid lulling for the wine sector, as well as the work of michel dantin. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the 2008 reform was a thorough reform which led to a complete overhaul of the wine segmentation. it has in particular promoted the development of wines without geographical indications by enhancing the value of these wines through labelling and liberalizing the conditions for their production. these non-gi wines now have the competitive tools to face the world markets. the creation of a new category of wine called 'wine grape' would only add to the confusion in the minds of consumers, commissioner. our wine growers need legal stability, support in the conquest of new markets, a real defence of this sector in the negotiation of free trade agreements and scientific and technical means to combat the disease of vine wood effectively, and i will quote my friend astrid, saying that they also need to be left alone and let them work.
in writing. the wine sector has always been one of the agricultural sectors most affected by european legislation and its various reforms. in 2008, a major reform of the sector was initiated and then modified as part of the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap). the sector needs sustainability today. the cap reform partly solved this problem by establishing a system of authorisation for planting vines until 2030. the fixed horizon is the right one, since professionals and organisations today want to focus more on their job than on the legislative watch. a stable regulatory framework will enable the sectors to advance in the quality of their products and in research. it is far too early to embark on a new revision without having seriously and with a very broad panel assessed the impact of the previous reforms on professionals and citizens. moreover, a further reform would certainly lead to a delay in investment, a freeze in job creation in the sector, and even a discouragement of the people in the sector, who are tired of the successive changes in the rules.
in writing. the last few months have been particularly difficult for european wine growers. they had to fight a long battle to maintain the regulation of production potential. they won that fight because it was legitimate, and i am proud to have stood by them from the moment i entered the european parliament. today, our viticulture needs a clear, stable and predictable framework to thrive. she needs help, not obstacles. in the face of growing and real competition from the countries of the new world, our winegrowers must rely on the unfailing support of their national and european public authorities for what constitutes the basis of their competitiveness: quality and ancestral know-how. for generations, french and european wines have been distinguished by grape varieties, processes and terroirs that have earned them a worldwide reputation. since the first attempts to liberalize the sector, we have come a long way, we have made so much effort that it is now time to protect and promote quality once and for all. we owe it to our wine growers as much as to our consumers. i very much hope that this will be part of the commission's objectives for the coming years.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sends a clear message to the council on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the aim was to remind the council of our priorities for the 2014 budget, in particular sustainable economic growth, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment, and to ensure that a budget of a sufficient and realistic level was established.
in writing. while the multiannual financial framework is not yet finalised, we have delivered our opinion on the 2014 budget. i voted for this report which restores part of the appropriations (as proposed by the commission but cut by the council) for the programme for financing smes (cosme), the youth guarantee and the programme for aid to the most deprived. i agree with the report, which deplores the cuts made by the council. what is the coherence between the speeches of the european councils and the reality of budgetary negotiations in which each member state is trying to "pay less"? even if the funds are eventually restored, this project remains an austerity budget that will not allow us to face the challenges. with a budget of 1% of european gdp, how can we expect the union to achieve its objectives, particularly in terms of growth, employment and the energy transition? we need a budget based on own resources which promotes progressive social and fiscal harmonization.
in writing. i supported the adoption of the jensen and hohlmeier report on parliament's approval of the 2014 budget of the european union, as proposed by the european commission. the budget is eur 142.467 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 136.065 billion in payment appropriations. it reflects the budgetary constraints on the finances of the member states. however, even though this budget is down by 6% compared to the 2013 budget, the priority actions of the european union have not been sacrificed. the 2014 budget will thus focus on measures to be deployed for youth employment, in particular on the new research and innovation funding programme for the period 2014-2020 (horizon 2020) and on the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises (cosme).
in writing. by voting for this text, parliament is making its position clear: we refuse to amputate growth and jobs in europe in 2014, the european budget must be reinstated without the counterproductive cuts that member states are seeking to impose. i am confident that parliament and the member states, who are now going to start the conciliation on this draft budget, will succeed in finding a compromise for the benefit of all europeans.
in writing. while the budget is falling, which i regret, it nevertheless maintains ambitious growth policy objectives, notably through the funding of the promising digital agenda and the cosme programme for smes. i particularly welcome the vote on the youth guarantee, a tool to combat youth unemployment, and the vote on the programme of aid for the most deprived, which is essential in these times of crisis when the poorest are particularly vulnerable. finally, i once again supported the seat of strasbourg, which, although some people dislike it, is the official seat of the european parliament.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the downward revision of the draft 2014 budget of the european union to take account of national budgetary imperatives. however, not all decline should become an obsession or even a folly. we're on the verge of defaulting on our 2013 tax bill. i do not think that the citizens reject the institutions to the extent of accepting a situation which threatens the activities of companies, regions, research centres and organisations which are therefore unable to finance their projects and the jobs which depend on them. i also regret that, once again, an amendment on the single seat of the european parliament was tabled and approved by 75% of the voters without taking into account the decisions of the court of justice of the european union and the treaties which bind them. if the members of the european parliament are the first to fail to comply with the treaties, who else can we ask to do so?
in writing. i have chosen to abstain on this report. by voting on this report and taking into account the draft multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, the european parliament adopted a general budget of the union for the financial year 2014, which is 6% lower than in 2013. this decline will have an impact on all areas of union action and there is an urgent need for action to support youth employment, smes, research and education. the report, adopted by 480 votes to 119, with 86 abstentions, calls for €142.6 billion in commitment appropriations and €136.1 billion in payment appropriations, including the reinstatement of funding cut by the council for employment and research and the addition of funds for the frontex agency. however, the funding of frontex, which can ensure stable borders in the european union, is not enough. this vote opens a conciliation period with the council which is due to end on 13 november and will allow the 2014-2020 budget to be voted on at the next plenary session (november 2013). parliament must remain vigilant.
in writing. on wednesday 22 october, the european parliament adopted the 2014 budget of the european union, which is 6% lower than in 2013. we have nevertheless restored the budget to the level of the european commission's original proposal and we have refused the various cuts introduced by the member states. we have reinstated very substantial appropriations, particularly for aid to the most deprived and for research and innovation. despite the lack of ambition in this budget of eur 142.625 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 136.077 billion in payment appropriations, i voted in favour of this text in order to reach an agreement between the european parliament and the member states by 13 november, otherwise the new european programmes and funds will not be able to be implemented at the beginning of 2014.
in writing. i supported the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg by voting against paragraph 90 concerning a roadmap for a single seat of the parliament. i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. this position, which takes into account a decrease in the budget compared to 2013, rejects the additional cuts requested by the member states. for the union to be a real lever to lead to an exit from the crisis, it is therefore imperative to maintain investment in growth and jobs. we also want to see continued funding for european aid to the poorest in 2014 and beyond.
in writing. this report rejects the council's proposal for the 2014 union budget. the council's position is dictated by the austerity which applies throughout the union under the tscg treaty. the 2014 budget is being discussed even though the multiannual budgetary plan for 2014-2020, which is mandatory, has not been adopted by parliament. in concrete terms, the budget proposed by the council provides for a 6% reduction in appropriations compared to 2013. all programmes would be concerned: research funds, investment and regional aid, social funds, including those for the most deprived, etc. the new budgetary resources for young people announced by mr hollande and mrs merkel for 2014 are non-existent. the 2007-2013 payment delays are considerable: 52% of the 2014 budget appropriations would cover unpaid payments from the 2007-2013 period! austerity is thus synonymous with mismanagement. this resolution has the merit of rejecting the council's disastrous position. but the rapporteurs are in fact aligning themselves with the budget proposal originally proposed by the commission, which is insufficient. the european parliament should have a completely different general interest ambition for the revival of ecological activity and planning in europe. i'm not going to participate in that decision.
in writing. taking into account the new financial perspective for the years 2014-2020 and the public finance crisis, i voted in favour of this budget, which is 6% lower than in 2013. the budget will therefore amount to €142 billion for 500 million citizens (or about €280 per person), representing 1% of european gdp. of this 142 billion, 94% will be redistributed to the member states for regional development, agricultural policy, youth employment, erasmus, research and innovation, etc. despite a shrinking budget, the states are asking the eu for more and more - to control the borders, to invest for growth, to help the poorest - without giving it the means to do so, and then, finally, to criticize its inaction as was the case with the lampedusa tragedy. unfortunately, this inconsistency is creating confusion and disorder and fuelling a growing euroscepticism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the "general draft of the european union for the financial year 2014 - all sections" i voted against subsidies for farmers who raise bulls for the sole purpose of making a spectacle of them. i think that giving public money to a bull farm that will be used only for bullfighting or bullfighting is not acceptable. these bloody spectacles, which only a small part of the population enjoys, should not be able to benefit from european subsidies. as vice-president of the intergroup on animal welfare, i am campaigning for a total ban on bullfighting and, in general, all acts of cruelty to animals. supporters of bullfighting consider it part of european culture and heritage! so why fund this heinous practice with money that's dedicated to agriculture? in addition, in this report i voted to restore the appropriations for the european fund for aid to the most deprived to eur 500 million, which the governments wanted to reduce to eur 365 million for the years 2014-2020.
in writing. the resolution seeks to justify the so-called arms race with the council on budgetary issues, in particular the 2014 budget. in this text, the european parliament attempts to bridge the gap between the defence of austerity measures and the defence of a budget which makes it possible to continue pursuing the various community policies. the european parliament says it 'cannot accept the council's decision to reduce the commitment appropriations and payment appropriations'. that is a positive statement that we can only endorse. however, there is a certain hypocrisy in this from a european parliament whose majority of members vote for the six pack, the two pack, the european semester, etc. - that is to say, all the elements of the european legal arsenal aimed at imposing budget cuts and 'structural reforms'. in this report, the european parliament is mired in its own contradictions. so i decided not to.
in writing. this report is the culmination of the european commission's green paper calling for a better understanding of the marine environment by 2020. the aim here is to make the most of the new technologies available in order to obtain the most comprehensive picture of the state of the natural resources and the marine environment as a whole. i voted in favour of the report, convinced that better information will help us to protect the marine environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the patrão neves own-initiative report on the need to institutionalize a european marine observation and data transmission network (emodnet). at european level, achieving a digital mapping of the seabed would enable better management of fisheries resources. through close cooperation between the member states of the union and thus through the wide dissemination of knowledge on the marine environment, this report is in line with the objectives set by the new common fisheries policy and its financing component, the european maritime and fisheries fund.
in writing. to become involved in sustainable fisheries, data on the seabed must be better collected, transmitted and centralised as far as possible by 2020. currently owned by a large number of stakeholders, it is essential to have a comprehensive understanding of and easy access to the public. the aim is to reconcile two fundamental pillars of our action: raising awareness among europeans and protecting our marine environment, for the benefit of the economy, europeans, fishermen and the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which will help to stimulate the ambitious project proposed by the european commission, which is the development of an accessible and sustainable digital map of the european seabed. it is important to work with member states to identify the means and mechanisms available to develop our knowledge of the marine environment for the benefit of industry, public authorities, researchers and society. strengthening our knowledge of the marine environment is a step forward in the european union's project to foster the growth of a sustainable 'blue economy' that creates jobs in the marine and maritime sectors. this will enhance our competitiveness and the efficiency of our industry in these areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mario do ceu patrao neves, which sets out how the fisheries sector could contribute to and benefit from the european digital underwater map project to be completed by 2020. the report focuses on the importance of sharing and disseminating information, while ensuring the validity of sources and the availability of data. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. − knowledge of the marine environment is of fundamental importance for promoting and developing the 'blue economy' and expanding oceanographic knowledge, and also contributing to the achievement of the 'europe 2020' objectives for the sea. improving oceanographic knowledge through the development of a continuous multi-resolution digital map of the european seabed will facilitate the use of resources for sustainable, targeted and inclusive growth for all actors such as public authorities and industry, education and research.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a report in response to the european commission's proposal to develop a digital map of the european seabed by 2020. the report stresses the importance of collecting and disseminating data on the seabed, which are currently held by a multitude of institutions, in a dispersed and fragmented manner. the european union must make this data accessible to a wide audience in order to encourage resource conservation, innovation and job creation in the marine and maritime sectors. this map will contain information on fishing activities, including areas subject to higher fishing intensity, species fished and catch volumes. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that more accurate information on the seabed will enable us to better manage fisheries resources and preserve fragile marine ecosystems.
in writing. i voted in favour of the marine knowledge report 2020 following the european commission's communication which stresses the need to unlock the economic potential of marine observations in order to foster sustainable economic growth and job creation. the issue of data processing and use is important in developing an effective tool, and data should be standardised and controlled for effective use.
in writing. this report proposes to create a map of the european seabed by bringing together data that has hitherto been fragmented and disciplines that do not or only little exchange. this will allow for better knowledge of marine environments and fisheries resources, which is necessary for better protection of the ecosystem in general and of vulnerable areas in particular. this map will be public. the considerable contribution of the internet to the dissemination and sharing of knowledge is beyond dispute. the collection, synthesis and networking of scientific and fisheries data that this report promotes is an approach that i support. however, as is often the case with the commission, there is a very wide gap between intentions and applications. the current urgent task is to establish a european register of fishing vessels and to improve the control of catch declarations by each member state. otherwise, fishermen in the states which comply with the declarations will be penalised to the benefit of fishermen and states which conceal their sampling. that reservation does not prevent me from voting for what will remain a breakthrough in knowledge.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation will enable the european union to enforce its rights when unfair or illegal trade measures are taken in a third country. with this text, the european union will be able to react much more quickly and strongly. given the importance of this text, i supported the rapporteur, including his request to launch negotiations with the union's council of ministers immediately so that an agreement can be reached as soon as possible and the union's trade policy can be strengthened quickly.
in writing. the european union needs a more responsive, more coherent and better representative trade policy for european businesses, especially smes. reciprocity should be the rule in business relations. as the wto notes a rise in trade restrictive measures by most of the union's trading partners, including emerging countries, it is imperative that europe also has the means to enforce its rights. the union has not always been able to take the rebalancing measures to which it had access under international trade agreements. this instrument will enable it to better enforce its rights, through more systematic recourse to the wto dispute settlement mechanism and the possibility of countering unfair trade practices. if used properly, it should help to make the union's trade relations with these partners more balanced.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to ensure that the european union's rights under international trade agreements are respected. an effective legislative instrument seems legitimate in order to meet the requirements of the lisbon treaty, which calls for the establishment of a european framework for the implementation of the common commercial policy. reciprocity must be a non-negotiable precondition for any agreement between the european union and a third country. it is unacceptable that our european companies should be penalized in any way by the conclusion of international trade agreements.
in writing. i supported this report. the commission has put forward a proposal for a regulation laying down rules on how the european union would enforce and defend its rights in the event of unfair or illegal trade measures taken in a third country. to enforce its rights, the eu takes a case-by-case approach, with regulations adopted by the council on the basis of a commission proposal. in order to comply with the lisbon treaty, these regulations follow the ordinary legislative procedure and union action could lose in effectiveness and credibility. the initiative therefore aims to provide the union with a single legislative instrument enabling it to defend its interests in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner in order to encourage offending countries to put an end to illegal behaviour. the report was adopted by 573 votes to 25, with 79 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i would like to stress in particular the novelty which the european parliament has proposed in the area of the application and observance of international trade rules, namely the possibility for the commission to target goods coming from a member state which does not comply with its obligations arising from a decision of the specialised bodies of the organisation and to also target the services of the country which commits the infringement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the application and enforcement of international trade rules, which establishes rules enabling the european union to defend itself against unfair or illegal trade measures taken in a third country. it is important that the union should have such a legal instrument in order to discourage infringing countries from continuing their practices.
in writing. this draft regulation illustrates the hypocrisy of the 'europe that protects'. officially, this is to facilitate the procedure for the european union to take trade retaliatory measures. it would be urgent to put an end to the guilty laissez-faire of the european liberals. but the spirit of the text is only to counter the states which do not respect free trade agreements by strengthening the commission's autonomy to decide retaliation. the commission's ultraliberal approach makes it possible to doubt the meaning of this initiative. it can be seen as a way of preventing states from protecting themselves in their own interests. as for co2 emissions from vehicles, or the solar panel industry, the commission will be following the most influential country: germany. the rapporteur's arguments betray the thinking of the eurocrats: 'the mere existence of this regulation already constitutes a credible threat and it is to be hoped that it will dissuade our trading partners from breaking the rules of the game', so as not to have 'the slightest protectionist purpose'! we want to build a solidarity protectionism so that free trade is replaced by cooperation and relocation. this text is part of a project that is totally opposite. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). with a budget of eur 6.5 billion, the fund is the financial component of the reform of the common fisheries policy for 2014-2020. given the depletion of marine resources, it was important that european financial means did not support unsustainable fishing methods. i have therefore opposed funding for fleet renewal and supported initiatives to improve data collection. this legislative package will help to steer the european union towards a sustainable fisheries policy that is resource-based, while at the same time offering fishermen the necessary opportunities to adapt their activities.
in writing. by adopting my report, parliament is giving our fishing model a future. the emff will not be an instrument for the conversion of fishermen out of fishing as proposed by the european commission. on the contrary, it will promote access for young people to the fishing industry by providing assistance for the establishment of such a sector. it will also allow, under certain conditions, the replacement of engines for lower consumption and co2 emissions. the emff as adopted by parliament gives fishermen the means to implement the reform of the common fisheries policy in the context of sustainable fisheries. my report provides for financial resources to strengthen the selectivity of fishing gear. it is used to finance periods of biological rest, to support temporary stops in the event of conservation measures and to increase the resources allocated to monitoring and data collection. the adoption of my report is an undeniable success for the conservation of fisheries resources and for the competitiveness of the sector. i will defend these principles in the negotiations with the council.
in writing. this fund is intended to enable european fishermen to face global competition, which is unfair in economic and social terms and which today leads to the import of more than 60% of the seafood we consume. yet, despite these advances, there is still a regret. we cannot demand changes in the fishing industry without renewing the working tool, that is to say the vessel. and we can renew the fleet without increasing fishing capacity. to improve economic efficiency, safety, selectivity to avoid discharges, to equip ships with less polluting propulsion systems, public aid is needed. until proven otherwise, the free global market is not a tool for implementing european policies, let alone a food policy. market forces will not help old ships to become models of selectivity. i am in favour of public aid when it contributes to europe's prosperity and not to its decline. i would continue to fight for the european union to help this activity to be renewed and preserved.
in writing. the european maritime and fisheries fund is a key instrument for financing the common fisheries policy, and the rapporteur's proposals were in the right direction, towards sustainable fisheries and support for european fishermen, especially those working in small structures. i welcome the fact that measures have been taken to improve data collection, which will enable us to know more about the state of the resource and to adapt our actions as much as possible.
in writing. today, over 88% of fish stocks in europe are overfished. the european maritime and fisheries fund must help to put an end to this problem and enable the sector to move towards sustainable fishing that respects the resources that the oceans offer. it is crucial for the balance of the seas and for the balance of fisheries itself (especially small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing) to allow the renewal of resources. these are common goods which everyone must preserve. the money of european taxpayers must not be used to finance the renewal of vessels, which would lead to overfishing and depletion of stocks. this strategy also requires that we give ourselves the means to control its implementation. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the fisheries sector. fishermen in the outermost regions, who face geographical realities radically different from those of continental europe, have not been forgotten by this reform. the new emff will double their allocation for fisheries and will help fishermen in their local development strategies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is important to provide the european union with a european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) which would give rise to a realistic fisheries policy. this means reducing fishing capacity, while guaranteeing the activity of our fishermen. i particularly welcome the european desire to support young fishermen.
in writing. we voted in favour of the european fisheries funding programme for the period 2014-2020. this fund (emff) constitutes the financial component of the cfp. this instrument is essential if sustainable european fisheries are to be effectively established. i did not support mr cadec's proposal because it jeopardises the possibility of a truly sustainable fishery! some of our proposals, such as increasing the funds allocated to research and control and not reintroducing subsidies for fleet renewal, have been accepted. but the ambitious reform of the cfp recently adopted by the ep risks being jeopardised. instead of ending overfishing, the majority of meps preferred to allocate these funds to practices that are in conflict with the sustainability of the cfp. in particular, they have reintroduced direct funds to encourage new fishing capacity, in other words: we increase the capacity of catches (e.g. more efficient engines), which should be reduced without creating jobs. this fund was supposed to ensure responsible european fisheries, the protection of marine biodiversity and the future of fishermen, but this may not be the case.
in writing. as we know, fish stocks in our seas are dwindling, threatening the livelihoods of certain species and the activity of our fishermen. the european fund we have just approved aims to move our fisheries towards a more sustainable model which respects the resources of the sea, and i welcome this. we have recently adopted the principle of small-scale coastal fishing. this fund validates this vision by making it possible to combat illegal fishing more effectively, by promoting the renewal of a more sustainable fleet and by enabling fishermen to better comply with the ban on discards. the fund will also help young fishermen to settle in the community, provided they purchase a small-scale or coastal fishing vessel. this is a measure to build the future that i welcome.
in writing. concerned about the protection of small-scale fisheries, i voted in favour of this report, which makes it possible to preserve fish stocks while ensuring the future of our fishermen. the european fund will provide eur 6.3 billion for a new common fisheries policy. it should help finance more modern engines for the fishing fleet, safer and less polluting boats. by making aid conditional on vessels' capacity being limited, it will help to ensure that fish stocks are renewed. the emff also provides for increased support for data collection, assistance for the settlement of young fishermen engaged in sustainable fishing, and an ambitious social component to improve the living and working conditions of fishermen.
in writing. although it is not entirely satisfactory, i spoke in favour of the emff, considering that this fund must first enable european fishermen to face unfair global competition, economically and socially, which today leads us to import more than 60% of the seafood we consume. i have therefore supported public aid for the renewal of vessels, because it is essential to promote changes in fishing which are required at european level. the aid must therefore improve economic efficiency, safety, selectivity in avoiding discharges and equip vessels with less polluting propulsion systems. finally, i supported an approach which, unlike the commission's proposals, which were more about encouraging the profession to change, encouraged fishermen to look to the future with confidence.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report by my colleague, mr alain cadec, on the european maritime and fisheries fund. after 18 months of difficult negotiations, this report reflects a good balance between the desire to ensure the survival of an entire sector weakened by the crisis and the need to guarantee sustainable fisheries with respect for ecosystems. to help fishermen stay in this highly competitive sector, europe will allocate €6.5 billion for the period 2014-2020. this will enable fishermen who work in very difficult conditions and whose courage is to be commended to pass on their knowledge to the new generations through the aid for installation. the conservation of fisheries resources is another priority which, beyond the environmental imperative, will enable fishermen to continue their activity in the coming decades with the financing of biological rest periods and the increase in the resources allocated to monitoring and data collection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague alain cadec on the european maritime and fisheries fund, which is the financial component of the common fisheries policy. the report aims to ensure sustainable, competitive and social fisheries by introducing conservation measures, diversifying fishermen's income and enforcing compliance with social legislation. i regret, however, the rejection of the only instrument for reducing fishing capacity, which made aid for the renewal of small-scale fishing vessels in fleets with overcapacity conditional on reducing their fishing capacity and energy consumption.
in writing. the european parliament has approved a budget of €6.5 billion for the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) 2014-2020, which is the financial component of the reform of the common fisheries policy. i voted in favour of this text which will allow the development of a sustainable and competitive fishery. the new european fund will support small-scale fishing, innovation and diversification of fishermen's activities. aid for the replacement of vessels over 35 years old will be granted for small-scale fishing vessels (less than 12 metres in length and not using trawls). this replacement should result in a 40% reduction in the vessel's capacity, fishing effort and energy consumption. we have also improved social standards and provided assistance for the establishment of young fishermen. finally, we have taken measures to preserve stocks, with priority given to the elimination of discards at sea and to strengthening data collection and controls. finally, the rules of the emff have been aligned with those of the other european funds, which will simplify the management of the fund and increase the coherence of the european union's action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the rules of the european maritime and fisheries fund. the €6.5 billion fund will help fishermen implement the fisheries reform adopted at european level for sustainable fisheries. european aid will be used to modernise the engines of vessels which will have to be less powerful, to install young fishermen, and to collect and manage fisheries data, among other things.
in writing. the launch of a european market in fishing rights was the black spot of the reform of the common fisheries policy. this parliament report revises this and removes the possibility of selling and buying fishing quotas (transferable fishing concessions). that is a decisive positive point. the commission has also proposed that the emff should provide financial support to fishermen during the periods of biological rest necessary for the reproduction of species and support for young fishermen to help them establish themselves. that's good. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. it proposes to reintroduce the possibility of financing renewal. this will help small fishermen to reduce fuel consumption and improve working conditions. but this was only acceptable if it was accompanied by a safeguard against the race to productivism. the text does this by making funding conditional on a reduction in fishing effort. aid to small-scale fishing should have been better described. however, the key points that are favourable to the fishery resource and to the fishermen are included. i vote for it.
in writing. this €6.5 billion european fisheries fund closes the financial part of the reform of our common fisheries policy (cfp). with our vote, this fund will make concrete the ambitious reforms achieved in the regulatory area of maximum fishing yield, which reflect our desire to ensure a transition to sustainable fishing. our first victory is that we have contributed to a greater fight against overfishing. we have prevented a massive renewal of the fishing fleet from becoming a real disaster for jobs and fish stocks, by drastically reducing the number of crew on board and increasing fishing capacity in coastal areas already heavily overfished. i am also proud that we voted for an increase in the funds allocated to data collection and monitoring of cfp compliance, which were largely inadequate. these funds will make it possible to calculate efficiently the maximum yield required by the new cfp, in order to maintain the size of the fish stock at its maximum productivity, as well as to ensure compliance with the cfp, which is far from the case today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague alain cadec on the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). with a budget of €6.5 billion, the fund will be the financial arm of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) for the period 2014-2020. the appropriations will enable fishermen to comply with the ban on the discharge of unwanted fish into the sea, to improve safety and working conditions, to collect better data on stocks and to adapt port infrastructures. the text also allows the removal, replacement and modernisation of boat engines, provided that the new engine is at least 40% less powerful than the engine being replaced. the report also proposes that the eu should help young fishermen under the age of 35 by granting them a subsidy of eur 100 000 when they buy a small-scale fishing vessel. this fund will help to limit overfishing while maintaining sustainable jobs in the maritime sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), which provides the common fisheries policy with more than eur 6 billion for the years 2014-2020. in europe, fish stocks are becoming scarcer. it is clear that our fleet is overcapacitated: there are too many fishing vessels taking too much fish from the ocean to replenish stocks. i therefore voted against the provisions for public aid for the renewal of the fleet which were proposed in this report. on the contrary, i believe that the funds provided should be used to strengthen controls against illegal fishing, to finance scientific research programmes to improve knowledge of the marine world and to finance effective data collection to enable us to know the evolution of fish stocks. as a general rule, i voted in favour of the european maritime fund so that it can enable the european union to achieve its transition to sustainable fishing and to achieve its objective of restoring fish stocks.
in writing. the vote on the emff represents a major step forward, giving fishermen confidence in the future of their profession. it shows that it is possible to reconcile sustainable fishing without condemning the fishermen. the community must be able to take action to combat this scourge. by voting for the cadec report, we are sending a strong signal to a sector in crisis. i particularly welcome the adoption of the provisions for the outermost regions. the emff recognises the obvious, our fishermen face different geographical realities than their continental european colleagues. i welcome the increase of over 150% in the budget for the overseas departments and the measures to allocate part of the funds to supporting fishermen in their local development strategies. finally, i welcome the introduction of funding for the fish concentration scheme. this measure will provide a sustainable option for west indian fishermen in the face of the chlordedecone crisis.
in writing. − the vote on the fisheries fund was crucial to reaching a political agreement by the end of the year to allow the fund to start work in january 2014. support sustainable management of fisheries resources, which will in turn ensure stability in the development of the fisheries sector and ensure the long-term well-being of the population. i therefore voted against aid for shipbuilding and in favour of precise limits on the amount of public funding that member states can grant to fleets. i believe that funds should be allocated to projects that contribute to the future sustainability of the fisheries sector and coastal communities, the restoration of fish stocks, the reduction of the impact of fishing on the marine environment and the progressive elimination of discarding practices. i supported the fact that the fisheries fund should increase investment in small-scale fisheries, which will be particularly important for latvia in order to preserve traditional fishing, long-standing traditions and the quality of catches, such as carnikava's necks, which will probably soon be included in the list of traditional products of the eu.
in writing. this report covers the budgetary framework and the guidelines for the financing of the common fisheries policy and the integrated maritime policy by 2020 through the european maritime and fisheries fund. provisions for improving the working conditions of fishermen, particularly in the areas of health, safety at work and respect for collective agreements, are included in this report. it also stresses the need to promote sustainable, environmentally friendly fishing. the gue/ngl group tabled amendments to increase eu co-financing for the collection and management of biological data and to finance the temporary cessation of fishing activities during biological rest periods. we also stressed the importance of eu co-financing linked to small-scale fishing, which is essential for the economic, social and ecological development of coastal communities. i voted in favour of the report, and the abolition of the possibility of buying or selling fishing rights is one of the key points. i voted for the postponement of the final vote pending agreement on the regulation laying down common provisions governing the five european funds for 2014-2020.
in writing. the decline in fish stocks is a cause for concern for both citizens who are consumers and fishermen who have been living off this activity for generations. to meet this challenge, member states have set strict fishing quota rules, which will come into force in 2015. if these rules are necessary, i also know that they are a significant economic constraint on our fishermen. that is why i voted in favour of the report by my ump colleague, alain cadec, which makes the european fisheries and maritime fund an ambitious instrument to support our fishermen in the transition and modernisation needed to meet the challenges ahead. the fund will help fishermen invest in energy-efficient boats and more selective fishing gear, thereby reducing unwanted catches and their discards. in addition to the support measures for sustainable fishing, i welcome the adoption of support measures, particularly for the establishment of young fishermen and the protection of small-scale fishing, which is threatened by industrial and intensive fishing, as is the case in my region.
in writing. at the recent conferences (durban and doha), the international community committed itself to a global, binding regime for the effective reduction of co2 emissions by 2015 and to applying it by 2020. the latest ipcc report shows how urgent it is to move forward. i voted in favour of this resolution because it gives a clear and ambitious roadmap to the delegation of 10 meps who will be travelling to the warsaw 'conference of the parties' (cop19). i am glad that this resolution rejects the principle that developed countries should make every effort. in reality, climate change is everyone's business. our international partners are aware of the consequences and are beginning to take action. if it fails, i believe the european union will have to take responsibility and introduce a carbon tax at the eu's borders to rebalance international competition with those who would not make the effort. i regret that the european parliament, by a narrow margin, rejected the amendment i had tabled to this effect, which had been adopted by the parliament's committee on the environment. i am continuing my crusade on this essential point.
in writing. climate change is now widely accepted by the scientific community. in this respect, the latest report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) is encouraging. let us be clear: the environment is a decisive key to overcoming the endless crisis of our economic "model". with this resolution, the european parliament is sending a welcome warning signal, even though we could have gone further in our proposals. i have voted in favour of a number of ambitious and unambiguous amendments against oil and shale gas, which are an environmental and economic deadlock. finally, i believe that the european union should move decisively towards a carbon contribution at the external borders of its space in order not to penalise our companies which are directly subject to ecological dumping by our trading partners.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. in view of the warsaw conference on climate change in november 2013, this motion for a resolution has the merit of calling for a global regime that abolishes all distinctions between industrialized and developing countries. i welcome the rejection of the amendment calling for a 30% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 and a 50% reduction by 2050. in the absence of an international agreement, the european union cannot impose such a constraint on itself. i regret, however, the rejection of the carbon tax at the union's borders. the introduction of this tax would have avoided the commercial dumping by some of our trading partners exporting to the union.
in writing. the fight against climate change is a major ambition on the european agenda: the european parliament is the voice of europeans on this issue, and that is why it was necessary for us to define a clear position so that it can be relayed during the international negotiations that will soon take place in warsaw. i welcome the fact that this position is realistic: we must align climate objectives and industrial, research and innovation policy, to protect jobs and growth without jeopardising the environment. i regret, however, that the proposal to integrate a carbon mechanism at the border has been rejected: it is a common sense measure, for the benefit of all europeans and their environment, and i will remain committed to this issue.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it will enable parliament to send a clear and pragmatic message to the warsaw conference. the unrealistic targets of 30 to 50% reduction in emissions by 2020 and 2030 have been removed from the text, and i welcome this. while tackling climate change must clearly be a priority, it cannot be done at the expense of the competitiveness of our industrial fabric. at a time when our industry is facing an unprecedented crisis, it would be irresponsible to burden it even more by setting unattainable targets, which would weigh heavily on investment and, ultimately, on employment. this text is a strong signal in favour of a climate policy negotiated at global level and which is not a burden for our companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution for the climate change conference in warsaw. it reiterated the european union's support for an ambitious but realistic policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i welcome the fact that our commitments for 2020 are conditional on the adoption of similar commitments by the main issuing countries. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a common position ahead of the un climate change conference in warsaw in november. although the fight against climate change must remain a priority for the european union (eu), i voted against this resolution in which we make unilateral commitments. i believe that the european union should not be left to reduce greenhouse gases on its own, when it accounts for only 11% of global emissions. as such, the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020 provided that other major emitters make similar commitments is a step in the right direction. i regret, however, that the resolution adopted does not call for the introduction of a carbon tax at the eu's borders. such a tax would protect european industry, which is subject to the eu's emissions quota system, while non-eu companies are excluded. this situation leads to a distortion of competition and a loss of competitiveness for our companies. it seems to me that it is essential that such systems be extended globally to have a real impact on climate change.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the climate change conference in preparation for the un conference in warsaw in november, which will bring together the 192 countries party to the kyoto protocol. the 20% target for reducing co2 emissions by 2020 must be maintained, and the eu could support a 30% reduction target if other emitting countries commit to this target.
in writing. this resolution is a reminder of the environmental emergency we are facing. climate change is an imminent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore requires an international action plan involving all parties. the warsaw conference will be crucial in achieving a legally binding global agreement by 2015 to meet the '2°c target'. unfortunately, the necessary paradigm shift is not on the agenda. this text is part of the logic of green capitalism. it persists in measures that we know are ineffective, such as the greenhouse gas emissions trading system. he even claims that "a global carbon market would provide a sound basis for substantial emissions reductions". i vote against it because i do not want to encourage these things.
in writing. according to the world bank, current levels of co2 emissions suggest a global warming of 2°c above pre-industrial levels by 2050 and 4°c by 2100. a 4°c increase in temperature could have catastrophic consequences: floods, increased malnutrition, worsening drought, heat waves, water shortages, irreversible loss of biodiversity, climate migrations... i therefore voted in favour of this ambitious text which will serve as a negotiating mandate for members attending the next un climate conference in warsaw in november. however, if no binding global agreement on emissions reductions is reached in 2015, i believe the eu will need to put in place a carbon tax at the border so that imported products that do not comply with any environmental measures do not compete with european products subject to strict co2 emission requirements.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which reaffirms the need to take the climate change issue into our own hands. a new conference of the parties on these issues will be held in warsaw in november 2013. the last durban conference, of the same nature, made little progress. these interim conferences are intended to prepare for the paris conference in 2015, which will be of particular importance after the failures of copenhagen and doha. i supported this report which stresses the catastrophic effects of climate change and supports the responsibility of all states to cooperate in order to take urgent action. as the findings of the ipcc fifth assessment report indicate, human activity is indeed responsible for climate change. the temperature increase could exceed 2 degrees, the level allowed to avoid falling into the climate disorder with unsuspected consequences. western countries must take responsibility. the eu played a positive role in the development of the kyoto protocol. since then, under pressure from its member states, it has moved away from multilateralism and thus from taking account of the general interest. but in terms of climate, it is the only way forward.
in writing. in 2012, parliament set up a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering to develop an action plan to tackle these activities at eu level. i voted in favour of this report, which concludes the work of this committee and sets out the european union's future in this area.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the iacolino report giving the european union the instruments to fight against criminal groups within the borders of the european union. on money laundering, the report advocates the abolition of banking secrecy. in the case of corruption, the right of citizens to access information relating to public administration is protected. the report recommends that penalties be imposed for crimes against the security of persons, such as imprisonment and financial penalties of a high amount, commensurate with the damage suffered. the emphasis is on the essential cooperation between the member states of the union. crime of all kinds must be eradicated from the union; the report is a means by which the european union can do this.
in writing. this evaluation report on the state of organised crime, corruption and money laundering in europe paints an alarming picture of the situation in the union. this may partly explain the current feeling of distrust among citizens towards the institutions and leaders of the european union and its member states. this is why the states and the union must quickly take up the task of moralizing public life. part of the answer lies at the european level; the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the criminal organisations concerned are able to take advantage of the lack of coordination between member states. the european agencies such as frontex, europol and eurojust must be equipped with sufficient means to combat these networks. i also wish for the rapid establishment of a european public prosecutor's office to combat offences affecting the union's financial interests, as provided for in the community treaties.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i want to encourage the european union's efforts to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. these global phenomena require a concerted response from the european union. i am therefore in favour of strengthening the fight against money laundering by promoting a more transparent banking system and business world, and by anti-money laundering measures to prevent crime from becoming a lucrative activity. it is up to us, the members of the european parliament, to ensure that we fight tax evasion effectively, particularly in times of crisis. it is not right that the european union still suffers from such evils as corruption and tax evasion. i would therefore like to stress that the european union must continue to pay particular attention to these issues in order to deal with phenomena which are aggravating the already difficult economic situations in our member states.
in writing. organised crime, corruption and money laundering in the european union are plagues that are eating away at europe, along with violence, insecurity, etc. in order to put a stop to these phenomena, our parliament has therefore taken a position on these matters by adopting the final report of the crim parliamentary committee, which recommends the development of a european union strategy and the adoption of binding legal instruments at european level and in the member states, and i welcome the adoption of this report. i would also like to stress that i voted in favour of the paragraphs in favour of greater tax harmonization and the harmonization of corporate taxation in europe. moreover, there is an urgent need to act in this area, because in addition to economic considerations, organised crime is a danger that threatens the freedom and security of all european citizens.
in writing. i gave my full support to this report in order to launch action lines to fight organised crime, corruption and money laundering more effectively. i am particularly in favour of the prosecution of the financial assets and sources of income of organised crime, the exclusion from public procurement tenders in the eu of any person convicted of organised crime, corruption or money laundering, and a ban on the exercise of public office. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. to protect the eu's financial interests, in a context of persistent economic crisis, the removal of banking secrecy and the elimination of tax havens in the eu are also necessary. i also believe that the property of criminals seized should be reused for social purposes. finally, i believe that legal entities such as companies and their subsidiaries should be required to reimburse any public funding they have received if they have committed a financial crime.
in writing. i supported this report. this report marks the completion of the work carried out so far by the crim committee, which was set up 18 months ago. the rapporteur strongly recommends the establishment of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering and to define a list of priority positive actions. it also proposes the organisation of a 'european day of remembrance for the victims of organised crime'. the report was adopted by 526 votes to 25, with 87 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the european parliament adopted on wednesday measures to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. according to europol, nearly 3600 international criminal organisations were active in the european union in 2013, and 70% of them had members in more than one country. i voted in favour of this text because it is essential to coordinate the actions of the member states in order to make the fight against organised crime more effective. we have in particular called on the european union and the member states to exclude from public procurement tenders and public contracts persons convicted of organised crime, corruption or money laundering. we also stressed the importance of creating a european public prosecutor's office to coordinate national investigations. finally, we have called for the abolition of banking secrecy and tax havens to facilitate the freezing of assets of criminal networks. according to the united nations office on drugs and crime (unodc), illegal activities account for about 3.6 percent of the world's gdp. once seized, criminal assets could be reused for social purposes.
in writing. i voted for this text, which concludes 18 months of work by the parliamentary committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the fight against organized crime must be our priority! it is time to react and develop ways to better fight criminals who do not wait for us to cooperate with each other. after hearing from many experts, we have drawn up a european action plan to combat this phenomenon at different levels. at the criminal level, member states should harmonise their definition of criminal offences, such as money laundering, and the applicable sanctions. the strengthening of judicial and police cooperation at european and international level is a key element in tracking mafia networks that go beyond our borders. at the level of public administrations, progress is possible in making all information related to administrative organisation and activity accessible in order to fight corruption. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. the iacolino report has the advantage of addressing organised crime in multiple dimensions, ranging from money laundering to trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs trafficking, environmental crime and cybercrime. i agree with some of his proposals, including the importance to be attached to the fight against white collar crime and tax evasion, the fight against companies with branches in tax havens, the fight against forced labour, support for investigative journalism, the fight against shoe-throwing, increased controls on financial products and online gambling. however, this report does not propose radical measures against tax havens, such as a total ban on the activities of european banks in these territories, as proposed in the joly report on this subject. some points are problematic, such as the importance attached to the banking union, which gives all power to a ecb that is not accountable to the people, but also the reference to nato as a framework for collective security when it is a factor of disorder and danger for europe. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i supported this resolution, which sets out an action plan to tackle organised crime, both at european and international level. in addition to the resulting corruption, which the commission estimates at just over 1% of eu gdp, several hundred thousand forced labourers worldwide are caught in the grip of this phenomenon. about a quarter are victims of sexual exploitation. the plan includes the creation of a european public prosecutor's office to coordinate national investigations into organised crime. this is often the result of transnational transactions, activities or networks. the other key measure advocated in the report is the freezing and confiscation of ill-gotten gains of organised crime networks. we have also proposed that once seized, these criminal assets can be reused for social purposes, in particular to combat human trafficking and forced labour. finally, we stressed the urgent need to achieve a single legal definition of organised crime and to harmonise offences such as match-fixing, vote buying and participation in a mafia organisation.
in writing. i abstained on this report on organised crime. while it gives high priority to white collar crime and economic crime (which do inflict the most serious social damage) and to the issues of corruption and money laundering, it does not provide a convincing response to the challenges posed by these problems. the report advocates a uniform approach based on repression and surveillance for all countries of the european union. it also links immigration and organised crime, welcoming 'the beneficial action of frontex for europe and its citizens'; this is a bad time to say the least. finally, the rapid access of european administrations to national data banks, in particular those of the tax authorities, the vehicle registration register, the land register and the banking register, makes me fear for the protection of our personal data.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution. in the context of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and in recent months, the commission and the european external action service (eeas) have been insisting that the principle of 'more for more' be better implemented and strongly linked to progress in building democracy and respecting the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. as regards the eastern partnership, the union should be ready to support states facing pressure from third states in the run-up to the vilnius summit. with regard to the southern part of the enp, it is essential that a dialogue between the different political actors in egypt is initiated; the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the simultaneous condemnation of the use of chemical weapons against the civilian population in syria and for political and humanitarian support to be provided. i welcome the fact that this resolution was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the european neighbourhood policy stating that respect for the fundamental principles of democracy must be at the heart of eu policy, which should focus its assistance on the development of democratic institutions and political parties.
in writing. the european union's neighbourhood policy is mainly about exporting the liberal model. there are a few sentences on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights of women and minorities, and freedom of expression, but under conditions whose non-respect is a hindrance to the opening up of markets. if there is arbitration between the two, we should remember the arbitrations that the union had in libya and tunisia a few weeks before the revolutions. the deep and comprehensive free trade agreements (dcftas) are presented here as "a model of reforms that benefit everyone". the resolution also regrets the delays in the negotiations for the signing and ratification of free trade agreements with many neighbouring countries. i don't share that regret. i vote against it.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today the report by elisa ferreira on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. we european socialists have won two major victories. for the first time, the european parliament recognises that countries with budgetary or trade surpluses need to stimulate demand. this clear message to germany is an important step forward. another socialist success, the european parliament is calling for democratic control of the troika (ecb, imf, european commission). on the other hand, we regret that the right wing has opposed the establishment of a budget specific to the euro area, which we fundamentally need to finance growth in a period of recession and to reduce economic and social disparities between countries. finally, the european socialists had made a strong proposal for the gradual introduction of a european unemployment insurance system. the right has once again shown its anti-social face by rejecting this proposal based on the principle of solidarity.
in writing. i supported mrs ferreira's own-initiative report on the key measures for economic convergence at european level. the european union's economic and budgetary policies will be better coordinated upstream, and this will only strengthen the stability, growth and competitiveness of the euro area. in a social and dynamic europe, it sets thoughtful and concrete priorities, particularly in the fight against unemployment. this report provides a framework for analysis which can be of full benefit to the various european economies. it called on the commission to provide more detail in its recommendations to the member states of the european union.
in writing. the european semester, which provides a framework for the economic and budgetary policies of the member states, is an indispensable tool of economic governance. it is a further step towards a genuine monetary union. this coordination at european level must be done in a smart way and give priority to growth and employment in the member states, cohesion, investment and a macroeconomic rebalancing of the euro area. it is also essential that the european parliament, as the democratic body of the european union, should be more closely involved in the work of the european semester.
in writing. unsurprisingly, the report endorses the european semester, the exercise in which member states dictate their budgets and the policies they must implement. it welcomed the country-specific recommendations, which call, for france and others, for the precariousness of employment, for structural reform of pensions, for the total liberalisation of the energy market and for the freedom to set up large-scale businesses. it cannot, however, ignore the catastrophic social consequences of the austerity policies pursued by the states, under the ironclad constraint, for some, of the commission-ecb-imf troika. the most distressing thing is that the main changes proposed to mitigate these consequences are the introduction of a purely european system under the supervision of parliament, as if that changes anything! the report also calls for the troika's communication strategy to be improved. the impoverished people of greece, spain and portugal, the fraudulent savers of cyprus and the millions of unemployed in these countries subject to the troika will be delighted to learn that they are the victims of a miscommunication! as for the rest, it is the usual discourse calling for an increase in a clientelistic and largely useless european budget, and the acceleration of the construction of the european superstate. this is unacceptable !
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague elisa ferreira on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies because we, the socialist members of parliament, are here to defend increased parliamentary control of economic governance, in particular of the 'troika' (ecb, imf, european commission), in contrast to the intergovernmental logic which currently prevails. we want europe to have a genuine mechanism of community solidarity. the banking sector needs to be subject to increased controls to better combat tax evasion and tax fraud. i also supported the creation of a euro-area budget, which is the budget we need to finance growth in times of recession and to reduce economic and social inequalities between member states.
in writing. i supported this report on the country-specific recommendations to each member state that the european commission has published. these recommendations are based on a thorough analysis of the public finance consolidation plans of each member state and the measures implemented to stimulate growth and employment (national reform programmes). it is essential to pursue the objective of growth and employment in the context of the european semester for economic policy coordination. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. we have called for better implementation of the economic recommendations that the european commission addresses to each member state, whereas only 15% of the reforms recommended by the european union were implemented by member states in 2012. we have called for greater convergence of economic policies, which is essential for the stability of the euro area, in particular through the creation of an instrument for convergence and competitiveness. this instrument would provide eu countries with the funds needed to mitigate the short-term negative effects of economic reforms. we also called on the european commission to give priority to the fight against unemployment, in particular through investment in education and better financing for small businesses. the social policies of the member states should also be better coordinated, which is why we propose to create a minimum unemployment benefit in the euro area. i voted in favour of this resolution, which proposes some interesting work for the european commission's work in the first half of 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. this coordination at european level is not sufficient to significantly encourage growth, employment and investment. stricter criteria could improve economic convergence and provide more incentives for member states to implement the reforms recommended by the european union.
in writing. this report does not shy away from some positive proposals. but this is to drown them in an unacceptable mix of congratulations to the european commission and calls for further 'structural reforms' and austerity. moreover, this report is fully in line with the logic of the european semester. the european semester, like other austerity measures, cannot be improved. it must be fought. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this report on the european semester. the european semester is the direct implementation of the sixth pack, to use european jargon. its aim is to 'coordinate at european level economic and budgetary policies in relation to the stability and growth pact' and to monitor the implementation of structural reforms. we all know what that means. it is the implementation and, in this case, the control by the european parliament of austerity policies with the same leitmotif: reduction of excessive deficits. the house also expressed its deep concern at the continuing insecurity of private investors, their lack of confidence and their reluctance to invest, particularly because of productivity standards. calls on states to 'modernize their health care and pension systems and open up their service sectors'; 'calls for the full and proper implementation of the european services directive'. the gue/ngl will continue to reject all these austerity policies in general and to promote alternative policies based on a different distribution of wealth.
in writing. the series of tragedies which have struck the italian and maltese coasts is yet another consequence of the ongoing wars and must be a turning point for the union. this unacceptable situation is a sign of the failure of an immigration policy designed at the national level alone. the european union has a tool to deal with this emergency: temporary refugee status. but this is now the burden of the coastal countries, which are obliged to examine the files as the first host country. official and secure arrival points throughout the eu are therefore essential if we are to avoid such dramatic voyages off our coasts. beyond asylum, there is the issue of illegal immigration, which can lead to the worst. this issue must be dealt with at the source. we must fight firmly against the smuggling and trafficking networks. the control of this scourge must be a long-term plan and be part of a concerted policy on asylum and immigration which is fair and respects human rights.
in writing. many of the proposals made in this resolution are totally irresponsible: to consider de facto that every immigrant is a potential asylum seeker and not just an economic immigrant, to want to organize the forced distribution of these pseudo-refugees throughout europe and to give a list of places suitable for the disembarkation of immigration candidates rescued at sea... why not reorganise frontex ships into shipping companies and distribute brochures to future passengers so that they can choose their country of destination? emotion is not a good counselor. already, the blaming of europeans for their alleged indifference to rescue at sea has allowed smugglers to organize. to know that a frontex patrol is nearby is to be able to cram hundreds of people onto makeshift boats, with the near certainty that they will be picked up before the worst happens and taken to europe! risking the lives of children is a voluntary strategy to avoid the return of adults. you want to welcome the misery of the world, but you are only adding to the misery that the crisis and your policies have produced right here in europe, and which should be your top priority.
in writing. history stutters and repeats itself. our parliament has just adopted a new resolution on the tragic and recent events in lampedusa: a new drama that reminds us that every day men and women fleeing the horrors of war are dying in the mediterranean trying to find refuge in europe. i welcome the adoption of this strong resolution, which i immediately co-signed; i regret that every year new shipwrecks take place when we could have avoided them. the european union has a host of instruments, a set of tools, a panoply of means, but nothing is happening. so, despite the months that have passed, we are still asking the same thing: we are asking the states to take the urgency of the situation into account; we are asking the states to respect their obligations in the matter of rescue at sea and then to act, to take real action, on the one hand, to prevent such disasters and, on the other hand, to have a common migration policy. for all these reasons, i voted resolutely in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the tragedy of lampedusa should be a wake-up call for the whole of the european union. in supporting this resolution, i wanted to call on the european commission, as well as the council, to make a radical change in the approach to migration. i have advocated, in particular, the abolition of any provision punishing persons who rescue migrants in distress at sea, the strengthening of member states' international obligations in the field of search and rescue at sea and the development of legal pathways for migrants and asylum seekers to reach europe. until the eu and member states adopt a comprehensive approach that includes the multiple facets of migration issues, migrants will continue to rely on traffickers or criminal networks and risk their lives on increasingly dangerous routes. it is time for everyone to take responsibility and seek to implement an integrated european migration policy, addressing both the symptoms and the root causes of the phenomenon, in order to avoid the recurrence of tragedies such as those we have witnessed in recent weeks.
in writing. the european parliament reacted to the news on wednesday 23 october by adopting a resolution on migration flows in the light of the migrant shipwreck off lampedusa. i have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject. the deaths of these migrants are a tragedy that cannot be ignored, and i do not forget that these migrants often flee conflict zones to seek, in europe, even if only illusory, security. however, europe today is no longer able to accommodate these thousands of illegal immigrants because the member states themselves are going through a very difficult period economically and socially which reveals how inadequate our immigration and integration systems of the 20th century are. that is why i think it is essential that we rethink our overly attractive social model which allows free health care for illegal immigrants while citizens have to pay a deductible of up to 50 euros. i also note that the instability in the sub-saharan african region and the mediterranean area should encourage us to intensify our dialogue with the source and transit countries. finally, i believe that it is absolutely essential to strengthen the capacity and financial resources of frontex by creating a border police force.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution. in recent months, the migration flows have increased sharply in the mediterranean and human tragedies have occurred, notably that of lampedusa. the ppe group therefore asked at the last plenary session for a discussion with the commission. the resolution also discusses the issues of border defence, the various traffics in the area and possible agreements with north african countries, among others. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution with a number of recommendations to the member states for the european council on 23 and 24 october, which focused in particular on european immigration policy. we have demanded the reinstatement of the appropriations cut in the 2014 draft budget to strengthen the capacity of frontex, the agency responsible for managing cooperation at the eu's external borders, and the european asylum support office. we also wanted new rules on interception at sea. the laws of member states which provide for sanctions against persons rescuing migrants at sea should be revised, as local populations are often present before rescue and can save lives. finally, we called for greater solidarity from the european union towards the countries of southern europe, which are facing large flows of illegal immigration to europe. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union must adopt a genuine immigration policy, improve cooperation between member states and allocate more resources to existing instruments.
in writing. following the recent tragic events in lampedusa, member states should take additional measures to prevent people from dying at sea. a european strategy based on solidarity and responsibility is needed. member states should deepen their cooperation and facilitate exchanges between their coastguards. additional funds should be allocated to european agencies such as frontex and the european asylum support office to help member states at the eu's external borders, which are most in need of assistance. in the criminal field, member states should adopt strong sanctions against smugglers in order to combat the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings and to deter traffickers. finally, the union must continue its humanitarian action in the crisis areas of north africa and the middle east in order to tackle the root causes of these migratory pressures.
in writing. according to the international organisation for migration, at least 20,000 people have died at sea since 1993. the resolution, which follows the recurring tragedies in lampedusa, stresses once again the need to make every effort to save the lives of people in danger and that member states must fulfil their international obligations in the field of rescue at sea. migrants are referred to as victims of human traffickers and smugglers, never as victims of europe's aggressive trade policies. but the resolution also calls for increased funding for the frontex agency, whose role is to combat illegal immigration. this purely police approach to migration will not in any way help to solve the human tragedies that are taking place on the eu's coasts. as long as europe does not turn its back on the wild trade liberalization that is destroying the economies of the countries of the south, forced migration will continue, even if the union is transformed into a fortress. i vote against it.
in writing. i supported the epp group's proposal to postpone the vote on the resolution on the swift agreement. we cannot seriously contemplate suspending the swift agreement at the moment, as proposed by the other political groups, even though we have not been given any evidence of a breakdown in the agreement. both the european commission and europol certify that they cannot consider that the united states has breached the terrorist financing surveillance programme. we must also await the final results of the nsa investigation group within the libe committee. it is irresponsible to call into question such an agreement, which enables us to fight terrorism better. we cannot play with the safety of european citizens.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution despite the hesitations of the european right, which asked for a postponement of the vote without obtaining it. we believe there are clear indications that the nsa could retrieve information about our businesses and our citizens from the swift server and hijack it. we ask that this agreement be temporarily suspended, as provided for in the tftp, until a number of facts have been clarified. we also ask europol to open an inquiry into unauthorised access to financial payment data under this agreement. the moment your partner starts spying on you, that's when trust is broken. since april i have been calling for the suspension of the pnr and swift agreements with the usa. europe should go further by freezing the negotiations on the free trade agreement with the united states! respect for the fundamental rights of european citizens must be a precondition for any agreement!
in writing. the alleged spying by the nsa on the banking data of eu citizens, via the swift system, constitutes a serious breach of the fundamental rights and freedoms of european citizens. these two principles form the basis of what unites europeans today and as such deserve to be treated very seriously. it is essential that europe should speak out and say that this violation of the contract with the united states is unacceptable. the suspension of the terrorist financing tracking programme (tftp) until the us has answered the many questions from the eu is a strong signal to this effect. we need a relationship of trust in our diplomatic and trade relations. that trust has now been broken and that is why, beyond this agreement, i reiterate my call in july last year to postpone our negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment treaty.
in writing. according to media reports, the nsa directly exploits swift systems. if these allegations are proven, this would constitute a very serious breach of the swift agreement - on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data from the european union to the united states for the purposes of the terrorist finance monitoring program. in these circumstances, the commission should have taken immediate measures to suspend the agreement pending clarification. that is what our group has been defending since the very first allegations, and that is what the european parliament is asking for in a resolution adopted last week. i welcome the adoption of this resolution and expect the commission to take up its responsibilities, because we cannot continue our cooperation in data exchange with the us authorities in good faith under these conditions, just as we cannot compromise on issues relating to the protection of the privacy and personal data of european citizens.
in writing. following revelations of unauthorised access to swift data by the nsa, i voted in favour of the joint resolution by the socialists, liberals and greens calling for the suspension of the tftp agreement governing the transfer of data. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft agreement on the free movement of goods and services. it is unacceptable that european companies should be subject to surveillance which may have other purposes than the fight against terrorism and serious transnational crime. these are serious matters to which clear answers must be given. without this clarification, the good faith of our american partner is likely to be seriously questioned. by supporting this proposal, member states will be able to show that they are listening to the concerns of european citizens. it is also in this spirit that we invite them to ask europol to open an investigation into the unauthorised access to financial payment data managed by this agreement.
in writing. i voted against the resolution calling for the suspension of the swift agreement because of the nsa surveillance, as this agreement is irrelevant to the issues of wiretapping and would undermine the fight against terrorism which threatens both the european union and the united states. i therefore regret the adoption of this disproportionate resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of my political group's resolution because i believe that the eu-us data transfer agreement is important for the fight against terrorism. we must not react hastily and suspend an agreement that is essential for the security of european citizens while the allegations of non-compliance with the tftp agreement by the united states are not proven.
in writing. the resolution has the merit of capturing the full extent of the facts. it denounces the activities of the nsa in relation to direct access to financial messaging data and related data. it called for a full technical investigation into the unauthorised access by the us government to data held on swift servers on the ground, and regretted that no state had requested it. unfortunately, this resolution merely calls for the 'suspension' of the swift agreement until a full and complete explanation of the facts of which the united states is accused is obtained. it's not right for us. we demand the complete abolition of the swift system. we are calling for a halt to the negotiations on the transatlantic trade treaty. despite this reservation in substance, i am voting for this text so that there is at least one document from parliament against the activities of the united states against the freedom of peoples.
in writing. according to reports widely circulated in recent days, the us national security agency (nsa) has spied on the personal financial data of european citizens. the us authorities' access to this financial data is strictly limited by the agreement on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data to monitor the financial flows of terrorism, which entered into force in 2010. if proven, these activities constitute a clear and unacceptable violation of the eu-us agreement. it is essential that an investigation be carried out as soon as possible in order to clarify the situation. i regret that this was not done sooner. in addition, pending the clarification of these allegations, the eu-us agreement on banking data should be suspended. that is what the text of this resolution calls for, and i fully support it. of course, i am aware that parliament has no formal powers to suspend - or denounce - an international agreement, but i hope the commission will hear us!
in writing. this amending budget will make it possible to increase the 2013 budget by almost eur 2.7 billion, to enable the european union to honour its payments for the year. but i regret the urgency with which this procedure was carried out: the commission is sending an image of amateurism to the europeans by acting in this way, reinforcing the mistrust of europeans towards the european institutions as a whole.
in writing. as usual, where the council made many cuts, the european parliament's committee on budgets asked for an increase. as in the 2014-2020 budget, the 2014 budget will be very much lower than the 2013 budget (about - 6%). this is absolutely incomprehensible in a time of crisis, when the only way to boost growth is at european level. the eu is given more and more powers, but its funding is reduced! the committee on budgets therefore decided to concentrate on development (development cooperation and humanitarian aid, palestine), which the greens supported. i tabled an amendment with the greens/efa group to reduce spending on iter (nuclear research project) and to ban the use of cap funds for bullfighting. savings can be made in these areas and funds reallocated elsewhere. the amendment was not accepted. in the end, i chose to abstain. despite the good compromises, we simply cannot vote for a resolution accepting a reduced budget.
in writing. i supported this report. the vote was on the urgent approval of an additional €2.7 billion for the 2013 budget to avoid the european union running into default next month. this vote was crucial as it also conditions the european parliament's vote on the eu budget for the period 2014-2020 at the november 2013 plenary session. the report was adopted by 428 votes in favour, 44 against and 76 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of amending budget no 6/2013 as necessary to avoid the eu defaulting. the decrease in import duty revenue at the eu's external borders needs to be offset by an additional contribution from national budgets of €2.7 billion to finance expenditure in 2013.
in writing. in line with my commitment to the environment, i voted in favour of this environment action programme which aims to strengthen the contribution of environmental policy to the transition to a more resource-efficient and carbon-neutral economy, in particular by imposing a legal framework for climate and energy policy.
in writing. i supported mr franco's report on the strengthening of a european economy geared to environmental protection. i support the 'european green new deal' presented by the rapporteur; effective management in the use of union resources is fundamental to the protection of the health and well-being of citizens. as vice-chairman of parliament's committee on fisheries, i particularly welcome the introduction of measures to reduce the quantity of marine litter. i welcome the adoption of this report all the more as it is in line with the objectives of the kyoto protocol, to which the european union is a party.
in writing. this text will make it possible to integrate environmental concerns in a transversal way into the various sectoral policies of the union. these ambitious objectives can only be achieved by setting up a genuine european environmental diplomacy: it is time for the union to speak with one voice if it is to have a real impact. the central objective of this text is also to put the citizen at the heart of its action, with actions of education, information, training and access to justice, because environmental protection also involves our daily actions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of establishing a new strategic framework for the union's environmental policy, which is consistent between the objectives set and the instruments provided to achieve them. i also believe that the seventh environmental action programme, 'living well, within the limits of our planet', should also send a strong political message from the union to the rest of the world. the union must get third countries to commit themselves as much as it does to the environment and climate. on this point, it is essential to give priority to dialogue and consultation with our partners and not to try to force a passage which would lead to a virulent criticism of the union's attitude. these political tensions could pose a threat to the trade of our companies, as we have seen in the case of the aviation ets in recent months.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a general eu environment policy programme for 2020. we have identified nine priority objectives, such as biodiversity, sustainable consumption and production, and nanomaterials. we have called for better implementation of environmental legislation and for environmental issues to be integrated into all eu policies. we also stressed the need to protect the union's biodiversity and to strengthen the links between environmental and industrial policies. concrete measures have been adopted, such as limiting the landfilling of non-recyclable waste, strengthening inspections and gradually reducing environmentally harmful subsidies. i voted in favour of this programme because i believe that it is essential to adopt a transversal strategy for environmental policy in order to ensure the consistency of the european union's action in this field.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the general union action programme for the environment to 2020. environmental considerations must be taken as a whole and integrated into the various sectors of the economy. beyond the commitment of public administration, the use of public-private partnerships should be encouraged, particularly in the waste management sector. the preservation of extraordinary and ordinary biodiversity is also an essential point, which we must not neglect, lest we reach a point of no return and lose the potential of our natural capital.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eu's general environmental action programme to 2020: living well within the limits of our planet. the general action programme aims to ensure the transition of the european economy towards a resource-efficient economy, in particular by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the programme also aims to protect and preserve europe's natural capital by strengthening and deepening the natura 2000 network, which aims to protect europe's biodiversity.
in writing. i have approved this report which supports the proposal for a council directive to improve health protection against ionising radiation. the aim of this text is to bring together several existing directives into a single document, with the aim of eliminating their inconsistencies, in line with the european commission's policy of simplifying european legislation. it also makes it possible to adapt european legislation to the latest scientific discoveries.
in writing. exposure to ionising radiation is a risk against which the eu has long been committed to protecting workers, patients and europeans as a whole. the adoption of this text will make it possible to update safety systems to take account of scientific advances in this field and, more generally, to rationalise the existing regulatory framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which proposes a coherent legislative basis to combat the dangers of exposure to ionising radiation and which eliminates previous inconsistencies between the various european legislative acts. i think it is right that our legislation should take account of new scientific developments in the field of radiation protection. i also approve the addition of a chapter on the protection of patients and other persons exposed to medical exposure, in order to strengthen the protection of our fellow citizens against the dangers of ionising radiation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will improve the protection of our citizens against exposure to ionising radiation. ionizing radiation is the radiation emitted by radioactive materials, which is present in many industrial sectors, in particular the medical sector (radiotherapy, etc.) and, of course, the nuclear industry. the text voted by parliament aims to clarify and supplement existing legislation, to take better account of the latest scientific data on radiation protection and to cover possible exposure situations more widely. medical devices emitting ionising radiation, which were previously covered by two different directives, will be dealt with in a single framework, which already provides for numerous control and monitoring tools. this will also avoid duplication and red tape for manufacturers and operators of these devices. the clarified legislative framework resulting from the amendments will therefore provide for enhanced protection against ionising radiation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr thomas ulmer. this report incorporates provisions on natural sources of radioactivity for the first time, with the aim of protecting the public, and includes the latest scientific data on radiation protection in european legislation. i welcome the broad adoption of this report.
in writing. the european parliament delivered a favourable opinion on a proposal from the european commission to harmonise, clarify and update existing provisions on radiation protection for the general public, workers and patients. the new regulations will take account of all aspects of public policy in this area, such as control of radioactive sources, radiation exposure in the medical field and public information. another objective of this proposal is to incorporate the latest scientific advances in the field of protection against ionizing radiation into legislation. i voted in favour of this text because it was necessary to remove the inconsistencies between the various european legislation in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the dangers of exposure to ionising radiation which updates the existing text, in particular in the light of the most recent scientific data and operational experience. the directive should set a uniform minimum level of protection in the member states for workers, the general public, patients and other persons exposed to medical exposure to ionising radiation. the text clarifies that hazard information should be mandatory and extends the application to different exposure situations, whether planned, existing, accidental or emergency.
in writing. in order to ensure that the european union is moving towards a common foreign and security policy, i supported this motion for a resolution which encourages the european union to speak with one voice on the international scene, to be coherent and responsive, but also to define strategic objectives and coordination under the auspices of the high representative for the cfsp.
in writing. this report sets out ambitious goals for the european union's international action, which i support in principle. however, i object to several of the proposals contained in the text. i have decided to reject a vision which would support the opening of new negotiating chapters for turkey's accession to the eu. europe cannot continue to offer a european future to a country that has no intention of joining the eu. instead, it should work to create a strong strategic partnership with our turkish neighbour. i regret more generally that enlargement is being presented as an important lever of foreign policy at a time when we must make a lasting pause in the enlargement of the eu.
in writing. i voted against the brok report on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy. i do not want the opening of the crucial chapters for turkey's accession to the european union, as this report points out. turkey is certainly destined to be an important and privileged partner of the union. it is at the crossroads between the union and the middle east and plays a key role in countering fundamentalist and anti-democratic movements in the region. turkey is also providing vital humanitarian aid to syrians fleeing violence across its borders. it is not, however, intended to be a member of the european union.
in writing. i voted against this report. this report is an annual exercise by the european parliament in evaluating the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and drawing up recommendations. the report stresses that priority should be given to the transatlantic partnership, the political and economic development of the union's eastern and southern neighbourhoods and the middle east peace process. the council also called for better cooperation between the member states and with brussels and for support for the cfsp instruments. however, the report welcomes the development of the commission's new constructive programme for eu-turkey relations and calls for the opening of new chapters of negotiations for turkey's accession process. given the recent political developments in the country, its instability and the tensions within the population itself, this issue cannot be topical and i cannot support the report as a whole. i am firmly opposed to turkey's membership of the european union.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on thursday 23 october to guide the european union's common foreign and security policy (cfsp). the european parliament's role in defining the cfsp is relatively limited, although meps are the direct representatives of the citizens. that is why we have asked for parliament to be consulted regularly and thoroughly on the objectives of the cfsp and for more transparency to be introduced in order to be able to control the cfsp budget more effectively. we also called on the member states to coordinate their foreign policies more closely, including their positions in international bodies such as the united nations and nato. we have encouraged the member states to use the mechanism of enhanced cooperation between certain countries in the event of a veto in the council. finally, we adopted positions to guide relations between the european union and its partners. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the definition of an ambitious common foreign policy is necessary to strengthen the influence of the european union and its member states in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of the annual report on the common foreign and security policy which calls for a more dynamic cfsp with clearer priorities so that eu and member states' resources in this area are better used. member states should cooperate more closely with each other when adopting foreign and security policy positions in international fora. i also voted against the paragraph on the opening of new chapters relating to the accession process of turkey, because i am opposed to turkey's accession to the european union.
in writing. in the internal market for electronic communications, it is essential to strike the right balance between a technological environment that requires rapid change and an economic environment that needs a stable framework. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses that the internal market for electronic communications is still incomplete and encourages the european commission to take the necessary measures.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on a report taking stock of the telecoms package. four years after its adoption, it was necessary to measure its implementation - the deadline for transposition was set for may 2011, but only a minority of member states met this deadline. while the co-regulation mechanism has improved regulatory coherence within europe, it is clear that we are not at the stage of the single market: there is no pan-european operator or service identified as such. in addition, various topics deserve further study, starting with the use of radio frequencies and net neutrality. some of these are included in the new european commission proposal, but the inclusion of broadband internet in the universal service is unfortunately still missing. once again, the european commission is sorely lacking in an overall strategy.
in writing. the objective of this text is to encourage the rapid completion of the internal market for electronic communications. it is a huge springboard for investment, jobs and growth, and the union must seize it as soon as possible to stay ahead of its international competitors. as this text calls for, it is time to consider a thorough overhaul of the current regulatory framework to initiate this transition towards a genuine internal market for electronic communications, with particular emphasis on data protection and investment support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i want to encourage the establishment of a unified market for electronic communications in europe, capable of creating the necessary conditions to encourage investment and competition in this market. this measure will therefore have a positive impact on our citizens. i am also in favour of measures to reduce the digital divide so that all european citizens have access to information technology, particularly the internet. the difficulties in accessing these technologies sometimes result in the exclusion of these populations from our societies and in difficulties in integrating them into the socio-professional environment. i am glad that this text provides an answer to this problem.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague catherine trautmann which calls for a thorough reform of the current regulatory framework, in consultation with all interested parties. it deals with both issues related to the european radio spectrum, network neutrality, universal service and roaming and calls for linking up with other areas such as the protection of personal data. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. the european parliament adopted an own-initiative report calling on the european commission to thoroughly revise the current legislative framework on electronic communications in order to complete the internal market in this field. we called on the european commission to propose measures on european radio spectrum coordination, roaming charges, the development of pan-european providers, and accelerating investment in very high-speed internet networks. we have asked the european commission to take account of various requirements such as data protection, consumer protection or state aid legislation. i voted in favour of these proposals which should reduce the cost of communications to consumers and encourage investment in a key technological area for the european economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on electronic communications for improved coordination of radio spectrum and competition between traditional providers of communication services and new entrants. it is important that users have comprehensive and understandable information on roaming and internet connection speeds to enable them to compare offers from different operators. the revision of the regulatory framework should facilitate the development of pan-european providers and the provision of professional services across borders.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. something about the procedure for voting on the mff. those are two different things. i just wanted to let you know that we signed up.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in july we adopted a resolution on the transatlantic free trade negotiations and the nsa scandal had already broken. we have since learned much more, and we know that this scandal is even more unacceptable. millions of european citizens are being denied their fundamental freedoms and, while there is no doubt that you support the transatlantic negotiating process, even you, mr president, in an interview with a major french newspaper, le monde, called for a pause in these negotiations. the indignation, sometimes factual, sometimes sincere, of our leaders has not led to any serious reaction from the united states to explain to us what the reality of this espionage is and, above all, to commit themselves to no longer spying on european citizens. the green group's request is clear: we believe that the european parliament has a responsibility to protect fundamental freedoms, which are the cornerstone of european democracy, and we ask that there should be a statement from the commission. we can't just pretend like nothing's going on. i hope that there will be a response from the group chairmen and that we can finally raise the question of suspending free trade negotiations, which would be the only signal the american administration would hear. of course, we are asking for a recall vote on this point.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, you said at the last conference of presidents that the vote on the medium-term financial planning would be held in such a way that the compromise proposals would be voted on en bloc first and then, if necessary, the individual amendments. mr president, this method is a scandal, to put it simply, because you know very well that in the order of voting, in fact, the direction is decided. we have already seen this in the reform of the cap: according to the order in which we voted, many amendments could not be voted. i believe that six months before the elections, young people should learn something about democracy. i believe that all the groups, all the committees - for example, the committee on employment and social affairs - have proposed amendments on the whole of the cap reform. or, it is the text of the council that we are going to vote on. i'm not going anywhere. i think it would be normal for us to vote first on the amendments tabled by the committees or groups. there are 119 for 29 reports, that is to say three or four amendments per report: this is not much and this would be a sign of democracy. otherwise, why do you not propose, with the president of the commission and the president of the council, to appoint the president of the council before the european elections, en bloc? why bother the citizens of europe with these kinds of questions? it would be much easier to proceed in this way. mr president, i ask you to reconsider your decision and vote first on the amendments. i know you have the right to decide. yes, you can, as president, decide the order of voting. the greens/efa group did not vote for you to see this kind of practice.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, as chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs, we have tabled an amendment because the text adopted in the committee on regional development concerning the european social fund, tabled in plenary, is not an agreement within the meaning of rule 70 (5) of the rules of procedure and the code of conduct on codecision and the joint declaration. therefore, the voting rules for agreements cannot and should not be applied. the committee on regional development has not accepted the prerogatives of the committee on employment and social affairs as an associated committee on the 25% question since agreement was reached on this point with the council in the committee on regional development. the 25% figure still represents the official position of the european parliament's plenary, which was confirmed by a vote in the committee on employment and social affairs. as a result, the agreement reached in the committee on regional development was formally rejected by the committee on employment and social affairs. the amendment from the committee on employment and social affairs was never put to the vote in the committee on regional development. the fact that the committee on employment and social affairs has not voted on an amendment in plenary would therefore constitute a further violation of article 50 and would render that article meaningless. (applause) i would like to thank
chairman of the budg committee. mr president, following the intervention of president verhofstadt and following the example of president swoboda, i insist that the regulation on the cfp be voted on tomorrow. the negotiation was very long. i think we are now satisfied with all the precise conditions which parliament set for its vote in its resolution of 3 july. as regards the particular condition of the implementation of a high-level group on the reform of own resources, we now have the guarantee that there is complete political convergence between the three institutions. in particular, the letter referred to by guy verhofstadt recalls that the council accepts that the work will consist in reforming the entire system of own resources by adopting the formula used by parliament. it also states that the date of the inaugural meeting of this high-level group will not be later than 18 or 19 december. it is a simple technical problem to find a date suitable for the presidents of the three institutions who will set up the group. i should also like to add that i took the opportunity of an interview with president van rompuy last week to ask him the question. president van rompuy has informed me that if parliament so wishes, he is at its disposal to participate in this installation or to clarify with you the working arrangements of this high-level group with the european council. i agree with president verhofstadt that the text which has come to us from coreper contains too many 'shoulds' instead of 'shalls' and i will urge the lithuanian president, who will be here tomorrow, to change the word 'shoulds' to 'shalls' in his speech tomorrow.
mr president, as regards the amendment from the committee on employment and social affairs, for the sake of clarity, it is the amendment which calls for the european social fund to be endowed with 25% of the funds devoted to cohesion policy. this amendment has been voted on by the plenary on several occasions. it was voted back by the committee on employment and social affairs, after the committee on regional development voted in favour of the esf by 23.1%. we therefore consider that what the plenary will vote on tomorrow is not an agreement. that is the position of the committee on regional development. and the committee on employment and social affairs does not agree with that line. so we do not think we can vote for an agreement. there is no agreement. the committee on employment and social affairs disagrees. we ask you to make use of rule 161 of the rules of procedure, which allows you to change the order of voting or to establish the order of voting as you see fit. i note that this request has also been supported by others, including some group chairmen here. (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first pay tribute to the work of the rapporteur, doris pack, and to the shadow rapporteurs. i think we would all agree that this is one of the european union’s most important and respected programmes. europe’s economic and social crisis has only given new urgency to our support for education, training and youth policy. i am happy to say that the text we are debating today does justice to our collective efforts. in 2011, the commission put forward a proposal for a new eu programme for education, training, youth and sport. in the light of slow economic growth, unacceptably high youth unemployment, and the huge challenges brought about by new technology and the digital shift, the commission was convinced that business as usual was not an option. our spending priorities have to match our political aspirations. to tackle some of the most urgent challenges facing europe today, we must invest more in education, training and youth participation. that is why the commission had originally proposed a 70% increase on current spending. nevertheless – and i am pleased that this is due in no small part to the support of the european parliament – despite the overall decrease in the eu budget, the eu budget for these policies will amount to eur 14.7 billion over the next seven years, which represents a 40% increase on current spending. the recent survey on the skills of europe’s adult population shows that 20% of working-age people have low literacy and low numeracy skills, and that 25% of adults lack the skills to exploit new information technologies. today, almost six million young people are unemployed, varying from less than 10% in some countries to more than 50% in other countries. at the same time, paradoxically we see more than two million vacancies in europe, while one in three enterprises has difficulty finding people with the right skills. this is why we need an eu programme that strives to improve levels of competences and skills, and to modernise our learning institutions, both formal and informal. we have to help them deliver the skills we need today and for the foreseeable future. erasmus plus offers a number of innovations. first, in higher education, it brings together all internal and international capacity-building and mobility instruments under one roof. this will increase the efficiency, coherence and visibility of eu action, and trigger synergies. second, we will integrate our main youth activities under the new programme building bridges between non-formal learning and formal education, fostering much needed cooperation across sectors. third, and in line with our policy goals, we are strengthening the links between education and the world of work by stimulating new partnerships and putting stronger focus on the employability of young people. and fourth, for the very first time, we are offering eu funding to the world of sport so as to improve its governance and address threats such as racism, doping and match-fixing and to support grassroots sports organisations in serving eu citizens better. this means that the new programme will expand the opportunities for both citizens and education, training, youth and sports bodies. it will offer more possibilities to students of higher education and vocational education to spend part of their studies abroad or to gain valuable work experience in another country. more funding will be set aside for youth exchanges and youth volunteering. staff from all educational sectors, as well as the youth sector, will have more opportunities to update their skills abroad. the programme will also offer opportunities for institutions and youth organisations to work together with partners in other countries, exchange experience, learn from each other and build common projects, and it will offer support to member states for innovation and new policy development. all of this will help to raise the quality of education, training and youth systems across europe. honourable members, today you have the chance to give your full backing to a new and ambitious programme that can help change the lives of millions of europeans and change them for the better.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with a budget of eur 13.1 billion, the 2014-2020 erasmus+ programme has a 40% increase in budget compared to the previous programming period, which my group the greens of course welcomes. in this time of crisis, it is essential that the european union continues to respond to the aspirations of its citizens. we must therefore create more opportunities for education and training in all its forms, and we must give strong support to programmes for disadvantaged groups in general and young people in particular. it is a question of investing in young people. each euro invested in these actions has a multiplier effect on the development of europe and its future cohesion. however, i would like to raise three points which raise questions. first, we have not been able to include young jobseekers among the target audiences of the programme. we have no guarantee at the moment that the regions will be sufficiently vigilant or that they will fully exploit the principle of complementarity provided for by the erasmus+ programme. what place will the member states give to education and training in their operational programmes? i would ask you, commissioner, to ensure that when the european commission examines the operational programmes of the member states, it puts this public at the heart of its priorities, otherwise young people in precarious situations will not be able to benefit from assistance through the european social fund. secondly, i would like to express my concern about cooperation measures between the european union and third countries, which are mainly covered by heading iv of the budget of the european union, the amounts of which have yet to be specified. cooperation projects with the southern mediterranean countries must be continued and strengthened in the field of higher education. i am counting on you to ensure that your colleague, mr stefan füle, and the council reach an ambitious agreement on this. finally, third and last point: as you know, the european parliament - that is, ourselves - has succeeded in capping the budget for the loan guarantee mechanism for european union students opting for erasmus exchange at master's level, and that is a good thing. however, we do not want to put our young people in debt to ensure a better future for them. i therefore hope that this guarantee mechanism will be closely monitored and that you will take all the necessary measures to ensure that the measures to protect the rights of borrowers are respected.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in the current budgetary context, 'erasmus for all' is a miracle. it has escaped the council's clear-cut cut. even if it is less than the commission's initial proposals, this programme will be one of the few programmes of the european union to be substantially increased. this is to be welcomed, especially for the young people of the european union, who are the main beneficiaries. exchange and mobility programmes, and erasmus in particular, are among the european union's most successful and are one of the few programmes to be almost universally accepted. however, my group will not vote for this programme because one of these measures is, for us, a casus belli: the guarantee for student loans. instead of pushing member states to develop scholarships, students will be encouraged to go into debt to pay for their studies, even though it is the most disadvantaged young people who have the most difficulty in pursuing higher education. what a signal! it is a fine symbol of the liberal drift of the european union. are we moving towards an american-style system, where only those who can afford it can go to college? we refuse to endorse these deviations, we want a university for all!
mr president, erasmus is probably the best known european programme. the renewal of the treaty was therefore a major issue. this is now being done with erasmus+ and, thanks to the work of doris pack and our assembly, this programme is becoming a real support for an ever closer union between peoples. the increase in the budget allocated to the programme for the period 2014-2020 is a success, reflecting the confidence and support we place in the field of education and training, youth and sport. the economic climate we are in is a huge challenge for young people. the emergence of a european area of lifelong learning will help to bring the union out of the crisis and back to sustainable and inclusive smart growth. erasmus+ is an example of the concrete europe that citizens expect. erasmus+ can help to break the negative image of those who blame europe for all the ills. i therefore wish erasmus+ as much success as its illustrious predecessor.
mr president, i would like to quote a little quote, i do not know who is credited with it: 'culture is what remains when everything has been forgotten'. europe had to make it a priority and i would like to thank silvia costa for having defended it so well. the cultural and creative sectors, in particular the audiovisual and digital technologies sectors, are at the heart of this new programme, with a budget of over eur 1.5 billion. these sectors have huge growth potential; they are not experiencing the crisis, unlike other sectors, and can give a real boost to the european economy and its labour market. it is mainly aimed at young people, their creative talent and their thirst for innovation. europe must build its economic development on this innovation and creativity if it is to remain competitive on the international stage. this is the challenge europe must meet if it is to regain growth, strengthen social cohesion and stimulate job creation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first like to thank my co-rapporteurs, mrs ayala sender and mrs vălean, for the very good cooperation we had in the discussions on the interconnection mechanism in europe. i would also like to thank the ten-t rapporteurs, mr koumoutsakos and mr ertug, with whom we worked closely throughout these negotiations, which made it possible to bring our two texts into perfect harmony. finally, i would also like to thank - once again - the presidency for its excellent cooperation, with a special thought for michael harper. i would like to express my regret at the weakness of the budget for this mechanism for interconnection in europe as it resulted from the discussions on the multiannual financial framework. the budget of €33 billion is far from the €50 billion originally proposed by the commission. this is all the more damaging as the use of the innovative financial instruments, which mrs vălean mentioned and which would have made it possible to compensate in part for these limited resources, has been restricted at the council's request. and yet, financial markets are very demanding of these long-term investments supported by stable assets, such as large infrastructure projects. nevertheless, this fund will improve the free movement of persons, goods and services. it has always been at the heart of the european integration project. because, sixty years after the start of our adventure, it is clear that much progress still needs to be made: delays at the borders, missing sections on some networks, difficulties in planning a long-distance journey, difficulties in interconnecting energy networks, and weak telecommunications networks. with the forthcoming entry into force of the connecting europe facility, we will continue our efforts to tackle bottlenecks, remove missing links, connect cross-border crossing points, and optimise the management of rail, air, river, sea and road traffic. but we will also increase both the energy security of europe as a whole and its capacity in the new digital world. the new fund therefore holds the promise that citizens will find their private and business travels facilitated, and that companies will be able to offer their products and services more easily outside europe. concerns about climate change were also taken into account, with a focus on sustainable transport modes, including rail and inland waterway transport. i am convinced that by speeding up the development of the transeuropean transport, energy and telecommunications networks, this new fund will help us to overcome the crisis that the european union has been experiencing for the last few years. investment in infrastructure projects has an impact on growth, employment and competitiveness on three levels: first, by stimulating hiring at the time of construction; second, by creating opportunities to exploit this new infrastructure; and third, by enhancing the attractiveness of the regions concerned and their competitiveness. i would like to emphasize that this new legislative framework we are about to adopt represents a real improvement on the current system, thanks to the dual approach, which should make it possible to better identify projects to be financed as a matter of priority, and through the promotion of projects with synergies between the three sectors covered by the framework, which will promote economies of scale. the connecting europe facility will therefore help to manage better the limited resources we have and to support the investments needed to rebuild our economies, for the benefit of our citizens and our businesses.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative package which has been presented to us on the interconnection agreement in europe is intended to be progressive, environmentally friendly and geared towards greater european added value. during the negotiations we have indeed managed to make substantial improvements to the two regulations which have been presented to us on the transeuropean transport network and on the interconnection mechanism in europe. these two regulations appear very well in the text, but the problem is the annexes: where the problem is that the annexes do not correspond to the fine principles laid down in the regulations. we cannot write that priority must be given to sustainable projects and those that make europe move forward the most, and then include the lyon-turin high-speed rail project in this central network when we know that it will draw on the majority of european funds. that is why i will ask my colleagues to reject the ten-t and the eia regulations.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i thank the many colleagues who have expressed their support for these two reports. i am simply surprised to see that only the greens express their opposition, whereas these reports have a strong environmental connotation and are a real tool for progress in this area. perhaps because these reports are also a tool for growth they do not have their vote. many members have made specific points about nodes or infrastructure in their region and i understand that they do. i would simply like to remind you that the inclusion of a particular port, town or section in the annexes required the council's agreement. the rapporteur and the committees of parliament supported everything, but the council arbitrated according to the priorities of each member state. i have heard from colleagues from various countries. but let them turn to their member states and their governments to ask that the sections or infrastructure they defend be taken into account! they should not ask this of parliament, which has defended them in vain, or of the commission, which was not opposed to them in general. i would simply point out that, under the treaties, no infrastructure - and no investment project - can be included in a union act unless it is approved by the member state. finally, i would like to thank commissioner kallas in particular for two reasons. firstly, for having brought forward a new concept and a new instrument which really makes it possible to bring about improvements at union level, and therefore for having been creative at that level by finding a new way. secondly, in a budgetary context - which i know well is also a budgetary context - extremely restrictive, that is to say at the time when everything is going down, to have obtained additional appropriations, which is - i believe - extremely difficult and almost unique in the context of our present budget. the commission has therefore been, at the beginning and at the end, an instrument of very great progress for our infrastructures. (the president cut the speaker off)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, europe for the citizens is a very small budget, a symbol of the place that the european union gives to its citizens beyond the fine speeches! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. as if that were not enough, the majority of this parliament has rewritten the objectives of this programme, reducing the 'citizenship (civic participation) ' part to the benefits of a 'memory of european history' part, limited to modern history, trivializing nazism, amalgamating fascism, stalinism and communism. a first! and what contempt for the thousands of communists who gave their lives fighting nazism and fascism in southern europe. i'm not one to refuse to take that story into account. but the history of europe did not begin with the second world war, and it is not for politicians to write and lock it up. it is centuries of history that have built europe and it would be good not to forget this, especially because the european countries have not always had a good role in this history. i 'm thinking in particular of colonialism and the slave trade ... (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
in writing. i will vote in favour of this recommendation for the conclusion of the revised agreement on public procurement, as it incorporates new provisions which are in line with the practice observed since its entry into force in 1996. we regularly ask our trading partners to open up their public procurement. we do this most often through bilateral agreements. this agreement, negotiated in the framework of the world trade organisation, enables us to take this commitment to the international level. it is therefore necessary to ratify it quickly, in order to speed up its entry into force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how many more disasters, typhoons, devastating and deadly hurricanes will we have to endure before we realise the urgency of taking an ambitious and responsible step in the fight against global warming? eleven million people affected, more than 10,000 dead: this is the terrible toll of typhoon haiyan which devastated the philippines and which the filipino negotiator, on hunger strike, recalled in warsaw at the cop 19 climate summit. his speech moved me to tears! three minutes of silence were observed in tribute to a people in distress, but it is not emotion and silence that the philippines and all the people threatened in the short term by climate change need, it is clear actions and commitments for the future, humanitarian aid but also commitments to reduce our co2 emissions. ladies and gentlemen, the european union cannot and must no longer remain silent in the face of the plight of the philippines. i call on our parliament, poland and our representatives in warsaw to express our support for strong, clear and binding climate commitments by the end of the week.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament approved the compromise reached on the budgetary framework by subjecting its final vote to three conditions. those conditions are now fulfilled. we have secured the additional payments needed to balance the 2013 budget: 3.9 billion. the legislative regulations, which define the content of the community policies financed by the budget, no longer give rise to major divergences. finally, the launch of the procedure for reforming budgetary resources is expected in the very next few days. i thank the lithuanian presidency, the commission and commissioner lewandowski, i congratulate our three rapporteurs and i therefore recommend that the european parliament vote on the regulation and the interinstitutional agreement. but i also recommend to everyone, and first of all to the council, that they realise that this budgetary framework does not solve anything. it wasn't the best possible, it wasn't the least bad possible. it was, daniel cohn-bendit, the only possible one! he won't last seven years, or even three. this framework does not ensure the minimum of solidarity between member states; the european model of solidarity has yet to be invented. this framework is even less suited to financing the new powers which the treaty of lisbon gives to the union. this framework leaves no room for unforeseen events and since our agreement in june there has been no shortage of unforeseen events: additional aid to cyprus, floods in germany, a series of civil wars, the tragedy off lampedusa, a typhoon in the philippines... this is why the european parliament attaches great importance to the mid-term review and the reform of the financing of the budget which will begin with the launch of this high-level group. without budgetary autonomy, the union would be condemned to die of slow asphyxiation. the process is already underway. our source of hope is the european election campaign which is now under way. each party will then have to decide on this major issue and it will be the citizens who will decide. we have reached the extreme limit of what we can do here. europe will only be saved by its citizens.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope the media did not get up this morning to witness this absolutely fabulous spectacle. you all are against this multiannual budget, you think it is bad, but you will all vote for it. you're all ridiculous! we had the opportunity, with the treaty of lisbon, to stop the nationalisation of the european budget. you're not doing it! why would you do that? i don't know, man. you 're masochists . i do not know what the sadistic force of the commission and the council is, but sadomasochism is the culture that prevails in the european parliament today. in the absence of president schulz, i would like to say that, no, we do not think that president schulz has negotiated well. instead, he took us into the wall. in this tradition of the european parliament, we swell, swell, swell, and all it takes is a prick and then everything is deflated. alain lamassoure now tells us: "wait, you'll see what you'll see!" there will be new european elections, then a new parliament and we will be puffed up, puffed up and it will be a mess: there will be nothing! why would you do that? because as long as this parliament, the european parliament, does not go to the front of the revolt and tell the council and the commission that we need a european stimulus budget for the energy transition, for economic recovery, to help countries that can no longer raise funds themselves, you will follow this neoliberal logic, blackmailing countries like the netherlands, like the united kingdom, you will take europe into the wall. i know you're going to say, "no, we've reached a compromise". what do you want, what do you want, alain, for the citizens to do with it? the citizens don't understand the situation. they are told at home: "save money, there are austerities everywhere!" mr mulder tells us that it is perfectly fine for us in the european union to practice austerity too. we are practicing austerity, yes, and we are continuing to push the citizens into the wall. i don't know how you'll vote tomorrow, but i'll tell you this: you're ridiculous! you make a fool of yourself and a fool of europe. is that your mandate as an mep? if someone puts to rest what the socialists, what alain lamassoure have said about this multiannual budget, no one will understand why you are going to vote for it! i know that you are smart politicians and alain will tell us that this was the only thing possible. in a democracy, there's always only one option. if not, democracy is finished!
dany, in a nutshell, because the most important things are said in two words: imagine!
mr president, this multiannual financial framework is a bad multiannual financial framework. i think all the members of parliament know that. because when they voted - at least a large majority of them - for the sure report, they voted for a sound budget. they know that the result of the negotiations today is very much subject to discontent, particularly because of the historic 9% drop in european appropriations. this is the first time that europe has gone backwards, that it has taken such a sharp step backwards on a subject as symbolic as its budget. secondly, it is a bad negotiation because flexibility is reduced to the bare minimum and the mid-term review, which would have allowed a fresh start, is denied. i believe that the main failure of this parliament is the one concerning own resources, because what is being put forward today is nothing more than a renunciation. the treaty of lisbon gave this parliament a power: the power to say no. it was therefore his responsibility because if he were to approve this budget today, he would only be assisting and accompanying the regression of the european idea and i believe that our group will of course oppose this.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank the negotiating team, which has achieved the least bad compromise possible in a particularly unfavourable balance of forces, with a council now mired in the candle-tipped economy imposed by the six-pack. however, four problems remain. the first was that we now have a budget that is down by 9%, which is problematic at a time when we have to deal with asymmetric shocks and relaunch growth in europe. the second is macro-conditionality: the two-pack already provides for extremely large, quasi-automatic sanctions for the member states. macro-conditionality is also a double penalty in this respect, almost automatic with the reversed qualified majority rule, which strongly condemns the european social model. the third problem is the esf: the esf is not adequately funded. we asked for 25%, we're short. finally, it has also been said that the debate on own resources remains open. ladies and gentlemen, monetary policy and structural reforms will not be enough to revive growth and bring europe out of the crisis. the main challenge for those who will succeed us in the next parliament will be to equip economic and monetary union with a budgetary policy!
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, last week's conciliation meeting resulted in an agreement. this agreement covers both the last amending budget no 9 for 2013 and the 2014 budget. i would like to thank the lithuanian presidency for the manner and efficiency with which it conducted this conciliation, which was long - too long - and i would like to thank the commission for playing its role as an honest broker particularly well on this occasion. unfortunately, this first budget of the new financial period confirms the concerns we had when negotiating the figures for the budgetary framework we have just mentioned. as from 2014, we will need to use the total of the payment appropriation ceilings. we have no room for manoeuvre and we will have to use all the available means of flexibility, as the commissioner will confirm. we shall nevertheless vote in favour of the compromise reached through conciliation, because it has the merit of combining the two requirements which are now imposed on all our budgetary policies throughout europe. the first is rigor. in 2013, the union will have spent around €144 billion. the payment appropriations for 2014 will not exceed 135 billion, which is 9 billion less, 6-7% less. there is not a single member state that has voted for a budget for 2014 with such a reduction. no one, no political party in europe, no one on any bench can accuse the european union of not having a serious budgetary policy! and at the same time, as regards the other requirement, despite the rigour, we have managed to concentrate our efforts on the priorities of the european parliament which are in fact our common priorities, our economic priorities: research, the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises, erasmus academic exchanges, social priorities, the programme for youth unemployment, aid to the most deprived and, of course, the requirements of solidarity and humanitarian requirements (compensation for the victims of floods in central europe and aid to the victims of civil wars in syria and elsewhere). but at the same time, we must realize the limits of this effort! three billion to be shared among eight million unemployed young people, that is one euro per unemployed person per day! the increase in research we are getting is only a few tens of per cent of gdp, whereas we have all committed ourselves to achieving 3% of gdp for research. only 8% of the 2014 budget will be available for the launch of new projects. finally, after the tragedies off lampedusa, we are increasing the budget of frontex by a little over two million euros. with this budget, we leave our successors a house in order. the 2013 budget is implemented in balance, policies approved and decisions taken to date will be able to be financed in 2014. but next year, a new parliament will be elected, a new european commission will be set up, a new president of the european council will be appointed: there will be new political orientations and new unforeseen events. decisions will have to be taken to deal with the unexpected and to start the revision of the financial perspective as soon as possible!
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is a great pleasure and honour for me to stand before this assembly today and to be able to take note of the positive outcome of our negotiations on the 2014 budget. on behalf of the council, i would like to express our full satisfaction with the agreement reached by the conciliation committee in the very early hours of 12 november, after long and difficult discussions between the representatives of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and between our respective institutions. we have been able to establish a realistic budget that will provide the appropriations needed in 2014 to finance the new programmes and actions commonly agreed in the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. the fully-fledged start of these programmes in the first year of the new multiannual financial framework will therefore be ensured. at the same time, sufficient resources will be available to complete the still ongoing programmes and actions under the current multiannual financial framework and to pay the related invoices that will be received in the course of 2014. it is also important that, in these times of economic and financial crisis, we have established a package that does not create an unnecessary burden on the member states’ national budgets. their financial contributions to the union budget will be fully – and, i believe, efficiently – used to finance programmes and actions creating added value at european level for the benefit of europe’s citizens. the member states will see a return on their investment. i am glad that the agreed compromise focuses on the financing of key policies which are of particular importance for both the council and the european parliament, such as innovation, growth and jobs, the fight against youth unemployment and also asylum, migration and the protection of the external borders of the union. at the same time it leaves sufficient margins to cope with unforeseen situations in the course of the next year to which an appropriate reaction by the european union might be expected. the package agreed by the conciliation committee includes a number of joint statements. here i would like to stress that the council strongly supports these declarations and is fully committed to honouring them. after the successful outcome reached at the conciliation on 12 november, the general affairs council, meeting in brussels today, has just a few minutes ago formally approved the joint text. the council expects the european parliament to approve it tomorrow. the general budget for 2014 will thus be adopted within the deadlines foreseen by the treaty. the annual budget ensures the beginning of the new programmes. however, the implementation of the eu’s long-term goals and priorities depends on the mff. therefore, the vote on the 2014-2020 mff that follows is of crucial importance for the european union. having listened to the previous debate, i would like to take up what minister leškevičius has already emphasised on the high-level group on own resources. let me assure the house that the presidency is ready to organise an inaugural meeting of that group on 18 or 19 december. that will be the official start of the work on this important process. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the european parliament’s committee on budgets, mr alain lamassoure, and the two rapporteurs, ms anne jensen and ms monika hohlmeier, for their constructive approach during the whole budgetary procedure, for their openness to compromise and for the positive spirit among the institutions during recent weeks and months. i also would like to thank all the other colleagues from the european parliament who showed patience and a strong spirit of compromise during those long and stressful hours in the council premises. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank my team for all the support that they kindly provided to me. finally, i would like to thank commissioner janusz lewandowski and his team for all the support that he provided as an honest broker and for the contribution that he made in order to facilitate those successful negotiations. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, this is only the second annual budgetary procedure which has been completed according to the provisions and within the timeframe foreseen by the treaty without having recourse to a new draft budget and a second round of negotiations. on behalf of the lithuanian presidency of the council, i would therefore like to express my gratitude to all parties involved for making this timely result possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, today we have an unusual and interesting debate: the end and the beginning. the end of the complex negotiations over the future multiannual financial framework to 2020 and the first budget within that framework, that is the budget for 2014. that budget has the unusual nature therefore of being a bridge between the two financial perspectives, and it cannot be business as usual. as a result, the conciliation last week was very complex too, with at least three dimensions present: not only the 2014 budget and not only the multiannual financial framework in the background but also – and what was pressing – reinforcing the current 2013 budget because there was a clear shortage of money and a clear accumulation of problems at the end of the financial perspective. reinforcement therefore – an unusual reinforcement due to its coming at a time of crisis – and also a compromise on how to grant compensation for floods in germany, in austria and romania, and in the czech republic. finishing at four oʼclock in the morning after 16 hours was also a better result. this is a paradox, but this was a better result than last year with one more round of negotiations. therefore, my thanks go to the spirit of cooperation on parliamentʼs part – to alain lamassoure leading the parliamentary team of rapporteurs, to anne jensen, monika hohlmeier and giovanni la via for 2013 and its equally difficult solutions – and on the part of the lithuanian presidency, in the person of mr rimkūnas. alain lamassoure is right. this is an unusually sharply cut budget – by 6%. nobody in europe is cutting that much for the next year. this is one more illustration of self-imposed discipline. however, we know that this is also about accelerating the new generations of programmes, and so probably we are to manage it. we have been restrained in regard to administration. however, on the other hand, despite these cuts, we have clearly reinforced commitments in areas that have a high priority for parliament: competitiveness by almost eur 30 million; under heading 4, external responsibilities, not only frontex but also humanitarian aid; and flexibility instruments provide reinforcement for cyprus. so in the high priority areas we have a decent budget for 2014. this is more than ever the tool for investment: either prepayments – less than 10 % of the budget because this is a new generation of programmes –for the new programmes, or reimbursement for eligible programmes that have now matured from the old financial perspective. the latter is very important for the capitals of europe. we have joint declarations too, which are very important, really important. we will probably mobilise additional resources in the event they are needed in 2014, in the form of the reserves we have under the treaty and under the new financial regulation. with a spirit of cooperation we should be able to manage the budget, and therefore i thank you once more for that spirit of cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, this budget is the first of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, but it is also the last of this mandate. i shall not go back to the main points made by the previous speakers, but we are clearly very aware of the constraints on the finances of the member states, which unfortunately still feed three quarters of the european budget. we all had to make unprecedented efforts in the conditions of debate mentioned earlier. it is clear that the member states are paying a heavy price for the european project in the way public finances have been managed for years. let us not be fooled, we will not advance european integration with a budget in decline! in addition, the european budget, which is 96% reinvested and, as the minister has stressed, has an immediate role to play in growth, employment and competitiveness, within the member states themselves. the reduction in credits will be felt for their own benefit. i am pleased, however, that despite the limited nature of the commitments made, parliament has managed to channel these appropriations towards future expenditure in areas of growth: youth employment, the agencies and also immigration and asylum. i would like to conclude by saying that these negotiations - and those on the financial framework - must make us aware of the extreme limit to which the present system has reached. europe, with its 500 million inhabitants, with its ever-increasing powers and geographical area, remains a budgetary dwarf and cannot afford its ambitions, no matter how we manage them. the first step to overcome this situation is to reform the own resources system and, on the initiative of president lamassoure, we all welcome the announcement of the establishment of a high-level group, which may also be the beginning of a new way of looking at european budgets.
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, i will be very brief because after all this morning's debate on the budgetary framework for the next seven years and the budget for the following year, everything has been said by the members. i would like to thank in particular the lithuanian president for his final remarks, and i am sure that what the minister for european affairs said at the beginning of the meeting this morning and what you said, mr minister, will go a long way towards convincing those of our colleagues who were able, until the last moment, to ask themselves questions about the content and meaning of their vote on the regulation on the multiannual financial framework. it will be a yes vote. i would also like to thank all those in parliament who have contributed to the success of these negotiations: the rapporteurs, anne e. jensen and monika hohlmeier, our collaborators, and also the interpreters - who we have not yet thanked - who stayed with us all night last monday to tuesday and helped us to achieve this result. i thank the council and the commission again. i confirm that the president of the council and the commissioner will be invited to the press briefing on the multiannual financial framework this morning and to the press briefing on the budget tomorrow, after the budget has been voted. i am speaking on behalf of the liberal and democratic group to invite, on behalf of mrs anne e. jensen, all those who have contributed to these negotiations in all the institutions to add to the champagne in honour of this european success tomorrow, after the debate on the budget.
in writing. the european budget is still in balance, representing only 1% of gdp (compared to 50% on average for the member states and 28% for the us federal budget), is reinvested in policies that are useful to europeans and can lead to economies of scale by pooling actions. the future multiannual programming of funds for 2014-2020 poses a major problem: with a decline of more than 3% compared to the previous period, the member states want to condemn us to seven years of austerity, making europe pay for its own mistakes! we welcome the various elements of flexibility obtained by parliament's negotiating team, but the reform of the european budget is urgent, both to change its financing and its temporality: its financing, to avoid it remaining subject to the good will of the member states which still supply three quarters of it. the temporary nature of the budget, to prevent the possibility of voting appropriations in the future which we will not spend ourselves. the european parliament should be able to define its multiannual budget at the beginning of its term of office and not just before elections because that is a real democratic problem. my colleagues from the udi and i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. no to an austerity budget, a budget of the past and a budget of shopkeepers, i voted against the agreement on the cfp. firstly, the overall amount of this budget is unsatisfactory, but it is also down on the previous period. at a time when europe needs more than ever the mobilisation of all to boost growth and employment, the reduction of all amounts, and more particularly those for the european social fund (esf), is not acceptable. once again, in these negotiations, the perennial 'every man for himself' approach to intergovernmental cooperation has been revived, and not, as it should have been, the indispensable community method. today's debate was about showing consistency with the position expressed by the european parliament last july. our institution had then set five conditions for its support. however, despite some slight progress, it is clear that there is no sign of this, either in terms of own resources, the commitment to revise the budget at midterm or the level of payments.
in writing. the vote on the multiannual financial framework represents the eu budget between 2014 and 2020, i.e. €960 billion, or €140 billion per year. the european parliament's approval was subject to three conditions: the settlement of the current multiannual financial framework, the completion of the negotiations on the legal basis for the next programming period and the establishment of a high-level reflection group on the own resources of the european budget. i voted for the agreement which will allow for greater flexibility in the allocation of money. this is a reproach that is made of any administration: its complex and sometimes slow machinery. the eu must become more flexible in order to respond more quickly to the challenges of our accelerating world. this is the culmination of several months of battle between parliament and the council, and it is proof that the term 'brussels' conceals far more complex relations than is generally thought.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the union's budget for the period 2014-2020. however, the eu's priority programmes were extended, down 3.6% compared to the 2007-2013 budget, due to the financial difficulties of some eu member states. in order to support the purchasing power and competitiveness of enterprises, this budget allows for financial flexibility between the different programmes, in order to make the union more effective in responding to european challenges. transnational issues can only be solved at european level; this budget is the key instrument of a union at the service of its citizens.
in writing. having abstained in the vote on parliament's resolution of 3 july 2013 on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 in order to underline the decrease in the allocation of appropriations for agriculture, i have chosen to support the final vote on the interinstitutional agreement on this subject, in particular because of the significant progress achieved by parliament in: - addressing the chronic problem of payment deficits, which are becoming particularly acute this year; - allowing greater flexibility to transfer unspent appropriations from one year to another, but also from one category of expenditure to another, in order to ensure that every euro of the budget is used where it is most needed; - authorising a mid-term revision of the mff in order not to deprive the newly elected parliament in 2014 and the commission of key prerogative contributions; - launching the movement to reduce the share of own resources in the union's national budgets.
in writing. our priorities for the next seven years are now clear: growth, youth, research, employment, solidarity - commitments for which we are giving ourselves the means to act. i welcome the fact that parliament has made significant progress in ensuring that the actions of the european union have a real impact on the daily lives of europeans, including through more flexibility to use funds better, or a review clause. europe will have to act fast, and act better, to help europeans get out of the crisis and back on the path to growth; i hope that the direction set by this financial framework will help us to achieve this.
in writing. i voted against the european budget (called the 'multiannual financial framework' - mff) because i do not think it is sufficiently forward-looking: while the economic and social consequences of the financial crisis are still being felt, europeans were right to expect a boost. it is a budget which largely perpetuates the choices of the last century, from the british rebate to the appropriate share for innovation. i am, of course, aware of the savings to which the member states are forced, but to demand a reduction in the european budget is to deny the economies of scale and the multiplier effect that a good european budget can create. finally, a few months ago parliament, by a very large majority, defined five criteria for assessing the quality of the mff (flexibility, payment appropriations, revision of the mff, legal basis and own resources): an objective analysis of these criteria can only justify the rejection of the mff. the absence of own resources, not to say the refusal of governments to tackle this issue, is detrimental to the emergence of a strong europe.
in writing. i voted against the final agreement on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. it would have been the only european recovery instrument in a time of crisis. instead, the member states and a majority in parliament are adopting a budget that is falling. this is a sad first in history. not only is this budget down by 9%, but it maintains inequalities between farmers, continues to feed the financial gap that iter represents, and reduces the contribution to international solidarity. the lisbon treaty gave parliament the power to reject this budget. contrary to his threats a year ago, he has not taken responsibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of the multiannual financial framework of the european union for the period 2014-2020. in this context of crisis, an increase in resources is not possible. the european budget is therefore falling for the first time in its history. it will represent barely 1% of the union's gross national income, compared with 1.12% for the previous budget. i regret, however, the fall in agricultural expenditure and the decline in investment in the transport and energy sectors. on the other hand, there will be an overall increase in competitiveness expenditure. the european parliament and my group in the european people's party have made important progress against the will of the 28 member states. the budget ministers wanted, for example, to reduce the budget for the european programme of aid to the most deprived (pead). france has been passive in these budgetary negotiations, not defending this programme and not presenting any priorities. i'm sorry about that. the european parliament has succeeded in preserving the pead in the final budget. it's a great success. the funds will make it possible to distribute meals to 18 million europeans, including 4 million french.
in writing. after long and difficult negotiations with the council, the adoption of a new multiannual financial framework was essential to finance many programmes for the regions, be it agriculture, regional development, transport, research or industry. we would have liked a more ambitious budget. however, the financial framework finally obtained for the period 2014-2020 incorporates several of our requirements: a european fund for the most deprived, with a budget increased compared to what the council accepted, to the tune of eur 3.5 billion; the implementation of the youth guarantee to combat youth unemployment; the introduction of a revision clause allowing the next parliament and the commission to have a say on the budget... in short, a budget that should make it possible, in an overall context of budgetary constraints, to tackle the devastating consequences of the crisis so that europe can quickly return to the path of growth. finally, i believe that we must now make progress in creating resources of our own for the european budget, because it is no longer acceptable to operate with a funding system that is stretched to the limit.
in writing. the european parliament today voted on the eu's multiannual financial framework, i.e. the financing of eu policies from 2014 to 2020. for the first time in the history of the eu, a budget in regression was voted by a large majority in the european parliament thanks to an alliance between the right and the socialist group. it is an austerity budget, cut by no less than €50 billion compared with the previous financial framework. with over 120 million people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union, or 23% of the eu population, and unemployment exploding, the eu is cutting back on its solidarity programmes. moreover, the conditions under which this budget was adopted are unacceptable. the president of the european parliament, the german socialist martin schulz, who is pursuing personal aims (he wants to become president of the commission) has used a blocked vote procedure, preventing any possibility of voting on the key points of the text by prohibiting any possibility of amendments... while some amendments may concern several million or even several billion of public funds, meps were not able to speak in plenary...
in writing. following months of debate between the european institutions, the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 was finally adopted by a large majority in the european parliament on tuesday 19 november. the community budget is maintained at eur 960 billion for the next seven years, as decided by the european council on 8 february, a real decrease of 3.5% compared with the previous period. however, the european parliament has made important concessions, and i welcome this, because we are speaking in the direct interest of the european citizens. we have thus achieved a mid-term review of the budget which will take account of the changing economic situation in europe, the setting up of a high-level group to consider the establishment of own funds to relieve the burden on net contributing member states, the closure of the 2013 budget, more flexibility in the transfer of funding between community policies and the securing of an additional €1 billion for aid to the poorest.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleagues jean-luc dehaene and ivailo kalfin. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. it is important to emphasize that as a result of the negotiations between parliament, the commission and the council, parliament first of all obtained full flexibility in the cfp, thus allowing the transfer of unused funds from one year to the next and from one sector to another. this flexibility will be used in particular to combat youth unemployment in europe. parliament also obtained a revision of the mff by 2016, allowing the future parliament to readjust the budget. finally, the principles of unity and maximum transparency will be applied. i would like to stress that the epp group has succeeded in securing more funds for the erasmus, cosme and horizon 2020 programmes; the european union is also committed to the development of the social dimension of the internal market. the report was adopted by 537 votes in favour, 126 against and 19 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. − the negotiations leading up to the final vote on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework were intense and difficult. for the first time we have a budget cut compared to the previous programming, and this is mainly due to the serious economic crisis affecting the eu member states. given the starting points, the final agreement satisfies us, albeit moderately. however, i feel i must reiterate, in line with what my colleagues have done, the need for a strong mid-term review (in 2016), a change in the approval procedure and an effective reform of the own resources system, so as to give the european budget real autonomy.
in writing. as regards the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, we endorsed in plenary on tuesday the agreement reached between parliament's budgetary negotiating team, led by our colleague alain lamassoure, president of the budget committee, and the member states. after almost two years of intensive and laborious negotiations, we have finally 'arrived' at the best possible agreement, indeed the only one, given the budgetary context and the constraints on the national budgets of the 28 member states. for the period 2014-2020, it is a multiannual finance law with a budget of €960 million. the conditions set by the european parliament in the negotiations were accepted by the other stakeholders, in particular the flexibility , i.e. the ability to transfer appropriations from one budget line to another, and the revision clause , which implies a mid-term review in 2016 of this multiannual financial framework, with a view to adjusting and revising it, as appropriate, in the light of the evolution of the european economic and budgetary situation.
in writing. i vote against the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which was negotiated without taking into account the proposals set out by parliament and the commission. to ensure its adoption, the council used the possibility of a new refusal and thus of a suspension of funds, since the vote on the other programmes (cap, cohesion, horizon 2020, erasmus +...) was conditional on its adoption. the cfp will condemn europe and its citizens to even more austerity, since it has €960 billion of commitments, €40 billion less than the previous framework. this is the first time in the history of european integration that a financial framework has been less financially endowed than its predecessor. the cfp is therefore unable to compensate for the european austerity measures which have been imposed by governments. the few victories of parliament on a working party on new resources, or a review clause, could not counteract this austerity trend, so i voted against this budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, which contains several improvements to the functioning of the mff, as requested by the european people's party. these include greater flexibility in the transfer of unused funds from one year to the next and between categories, a revision of the mff, by 2016 at the latest, in line with the evolution of the economic situation, the establishment of a high-level group working on the possibilities of feeding the european budget with own resources. we have also been able to secure an additional eur 1 billion for the european fund for the most deprived, compared with the council's proposal.
in writing. this draft european budget for 2014-2020 applies increased austerity. it removes 50 billion from the previous 2007-13 budget, while the union's population has increased by 10 million. the union would thus have a budget at a historically low level, less than 1% of its wealth, whereas the treaties allow it to rise to 1.27%. this budget will worsen the contraction in activity without providing the means for future investments, which the heads of state have been touting. no budgetary demands made by parliament have been met: the amounts in the budget have not moved a cent from those adopted by the council last june. martin schulz announced the capitulation of parliament to merkel before parliament had even debated and voted. how can what was considered "insufficient" in july now be considered acceptable by the epp and pse rapporteurs? the agreement submitted to parliament is all the more damaging because it extends to all european funds the 'macro-economic conditionality', allowing the european commission to suspend payments to the states in case of non-compliance with its liberal recommendations. i vote against this new austerity coup.
in writing. the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 is the union's budget for the next seven years, until 2020. and this new budget is down, not for one year, not for three years, but for seven years! we even had to fight until the last minute to get the heads of state to stop cutting more than 30% of the budget allocated to food aid for the poorest of our citizens. this is particularly true in times of crisis, when inequality and poverty are at their highest. this budgetary austerity is detrimental to the whole of the union and i have therefore voted against the seven years of austerity proposed for the whole of the european union.
in writing. i am pleased to have finally voted on the draft multiannual budget for the period 2014-2020. it's about time! this agreement is certainly not up to the ambitions advocated by parliament, but it is a reasonable compromise which should allow a significant level of funding to be maintained for programmes such as erasmus or for programmes such as the cap or regional funds. above all, parliament has stood firm on what i consider to be the essential point: resources. instead of asking the member states for a cheque every year, we would rather have our own resources. the new mff is a real step forward in this respect.
in writing. for the first time in its history, the union has a declining multiannual budget. with 960 billion in commitment appropriations and 908 billion in payment appropriations for the period 2014-2020, the member states have just imposed seven years of austerity on us! the various arrangements obtained by the negotiating team may make it possible to relax this framework in the future, but they do little to hide the humiliation suffered by the representatives of the peoples of europe. moreover, the structure of this framework, although slightly reoriented in favour of competitiveness expenditure, remains locked in a logic inherited from the 1980s where two headings (agriculture and cohesion) have the lion's share. in these circumstances, i have decided to abstain from voting on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 as it emerged from the discussions with the council. we cannot always demand more from europe without giving it the means to do so. with the adoption of this framework, i am very concerned about the future of european construction and i fully support the calls for reform of this budgetary procedure, in particular its resources component, in order to reduce the control of the states which continue to provide a large part of it.
in writing. although it was very difficult to negotiate this financial framework for the next programming period, i am satisfied with the compromises reached. above all, we have been able to achieve our objectives in the three key areas of this new framework, namely the settlement of the current mff invoices, the completion of the negotiations on the legal basis for the next programming periods and the setting up of a reflection group on the own resources of the european budget. these three conditions being met, i have supported this report by my vote in plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 because we have shown responsibility. anyone who falsely accuses the european union of increasing its spending should look at the figures: despite ever-increasing powers, its budget is falling. the long and intense negotiations have shown the limits of the current revenue system: our institutions are strapped down by the treatment of net contributors whose only concerns are to reduce their contributions and maximize their returns on investment. these negotiations without democratic control have had their day: the council has committed itself to setting up its own resources to calm the budgetary debate and make real political choices. in the meantime, parliament has managed to preserve the investments for the future: an increase in erasmus, continued aid to the poorest, regional funds targeted at growth and increased research and innovation programmes. now we must move forward, and maximise the impact on growth and employment of every euro from the european budget.
in writing. despite months of tense negotiations, the council has not been able to propose to the european parliament an acceptable multiannual financial framework for the european union for the period 2014-2020. the overall amount of this budget is not only unsatisfactory but, moreover, down on the previous period. at a time when europe needs more than ever the mobilisation of all to boost growth and employment, the reduction of all amounts, and more particularly those for the european social fund, is not acceptable. parliament had set five sine qua non conditions for its support last july. however, despite some slight progress, it is clear that the commitment to revise the budget mid-term and the level of payments are not reflected in the own resources. that is why the european parliament's members of the democratic movement did not support this agreement.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on this text. the european parliament has certainly succeeded in getting some improvements on this text, such as the possibility of revising this agreement in 2016 or increasing budget flexibility by moving unused funds from one year to the next and from one financial programme to another. however, parliament's negotiators were unable to secure more funds from the council. the adopted multiannual financial framework is indeed an austerity budget which clearly illustrates the lack of ambition of the member states for the european union. i did not vote for this budget because i believe that the european union must not be a prisoner of the selfishness and cowardice of the member states. at a time when everyone is recognising that efforts to promote growth, jobs and competitiveness must be stepped up and that the european budget is one of the best ways of achieving this, the budget is shrinking! i also believe that the future of europe depends on own resources, which could be financed, for example, by taxes on financial transactions.
in writing. after a long debate, i voted in favour of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 proposed by the council and the european commission, which sets out the envelopes for the five future budgets of the european union in different policy areas. i regret, however, that he has not been ambitious enough on many points. the multiannual financial contribution thus voted is 9% lower than the previous one. it does not meet the ambitions of investment for growth and employment. i voted against the compromise on the provisions for macro-conditionality, that is to say the requirements imposed on states in difficulty to receive european subsidies, which are deplorable. but the budgetary commitment to the youth guarantee, the food aid fund and the increase in appropriations for job creation convinced me to vote.
in writing. the european parliament today voted on the eu's multiannual financial framework, i.e. the financing of eu policies from 2014 to 2020. for the first time in the history of the eu, a budget in regression was voted by a large majority in the european parliament thanks to an alliance between the right and the socialist group. it is an austerity budget, cut by no less than €50 billion compared with the previous financial framework. with over 120 million people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union, or 23% of the eu population, and unemployment exploding, the eu is cutting back on its solidarity programmes. moreover, the conditions under which this budget was adopted are unacceptable. the president of the european parliament, the german socialist martin schulz, who is pursuing personal aims, has used a blocked vote procedure, preventing any possibility of voting on the key points of the text by prohibiting any possibility of amendments... in its content, as in its undemocratic adoption procedure, this multiannual framework is the antithesis of the values which the left front defends. i therefore voted against this austerity budget without any hesitation.
in writing. this report denounces the negotiating strategy of the council of the union and the behaviour of the european council in the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. these institutions have tried to play the politics of the done deal and thus prevent the european parliament from playing its full role in the parliamentary negotiation, in total contradiction with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. the european parliament had to react to this situation. all this has unfortunately led to a disappointing outcome for the multiannual financial framework. this is one of the reasons why i abstained on the vote on the multiannual budget 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and cooperation in budgetary and financial matters. the european parliament's approval was subject to three conditions: the settlement of the current multiannual financial framework, the completion of the negotiations on the legal basis for the next programming period and the establishment of a high-level reflection group on the own resources of the european budget. i voted for the agreement which will allow for greater flexibility in the allocation of money. this is a reproach that is made of any administration: its complex and sometimes slow machinery. the eu must become more flexible in order to respond more quickly to the challenges of our accelerating world. this is the culmination of several months of battle between parliament and the council, and it is proof that the term 'brussels' conceals far more complex relations than is generally thought.
in writing. i am hopeful that this interinstitutional agreement will enable the next budgetary negotiations to take place under better conditions than those just concluded: i regret the commission's attitude throughout these negotiations. it is time for it to recognize in parliament its role and legitimacy. the guidelines laid down in this agreement should improve the whole budgetary procedure. less uncertainty, more efficiency, and europeans will be the first to benefit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague rafal trzaskowski. in the context of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, it was appropriate to adopt an interinstitutional agreement to implement budgetary discipline and to improve the functioning of the annual budgetary procedure and cooperation between the institutions in budgetary matters. the report also stresses the difficulties encountered in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the need to ensure that the european parliament's legislative and budgetary powers, which have been strengthened by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, are respected in the future. the report was adopted by 557 votes in favour, 118 against and 11 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, the report of which notes and seeks to correct inconsistencies highlighted during the negotiations on the mff 2014-2020 between the european parliament and the council. these did not sufficiently reflect the powers conferred on the european parliament by the treaty of lisbon, namely co-decision in legislative matters.
in writing. this report endorses the institutional agreement on the budgetary procedure concluded by parliament, the council and the commission, which is intended to translate the provisions of the lisbon treaty which give new budgetary powers to parliament. this agreement was reached despite the fact that the most basic rights of the parliament were denied during the entire negotiation of the 2014-2020 budget. parliament has put forward requirements in five successive resolutions, voted by a large majority, without any budgetary effect. the negotiation was purely factual, since the amounts set by the council in february 2013 did not move a cent in 8 months of negotiation, which therefore ended in the total capitulation of parliament when the treaties were supposed to strengthen its budgetary powers. the report also highlights the impasse, 'denouncing the council's negotiating strategy' and accusing it of 'violating the treaty on the functioning of the eu'. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. i vote against it.
in writing. this is one of the main texts by which the european parliament validates the forthcoming european budget and its budget cuts imposed by the states last february. this interinstitutional agreement lays down the rights and duties of parliament, the council and the commission for all budgetary procedures (multiannual financial framework, annual budgets and financial management of the union funds in general) for the next seven years. the negotiations were conducted in an opaque and undemocratic manner. the difficult negotiations on the cfp between the council and the european parliament have shown that the latter has relinquished its budgetary powers and has in fact had little influence on the spirit, timing and content of the negotiations. the european parliament even accepts that the funds allocated to the council are the only ones to be exempt from these rules. for the gue/ngl, all this is unacceptable and we regret that the budgetary procedure used has prevented us from putting forward alternative proposals to avert the current crisis and its terrible economic and social consequences.
in writing. as part of my commitment to combating youth unemployment and social exclusion, i voted in favour of this resolution, which allows the adoption of the amending budget allocating additional appropriations to combat these problems in france, italy and spain.
in writing. i voted in favour of strengthening the esf because these additional appropriations should help to remedy the unemployment situation, particularly among young people, and the poverty and social exclusion experienced by france, italy and spain.
in writing. the adoption of this draft amending budget will enable us to combat youth unemployment in france, italy and spain by targeting action at the regions most affected by this scourge.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague giovanni la via, which implements the increase in commitment appropriations of eur 150 million decided to contribute to the fight against youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion in france, italy and spain. the commission will also have to report to the european parliament on the concrete measures and actions financed by this appropriation. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 7/2013, which allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument with an additional amount of eur 150 million over the european budget for 2013, allocated for clearly identified expenditure. this amount is intended to increase the european social fund appropriations for france, italy and spain to enable these countries to combat youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion following the current economic crisis.
in writing. this report endorses the council's position on draft amending budget no 7/2013. the eur 150 million increase in commitment appropriations under heading 1b of the multiannual financial framework (mff) should make it possible to finance programmes to combat unemployment in france, italy and spain. the additional appropriations to the current esf programmes are intended to address the particular situation of unemployment, especially among young people, and social exclusion. i am voting for this report in order not to prevent the release of the funds needed for these programmes to combat unemployment, while deploring the totally chaotic management of the european budget under the auspices of austerity.
in writing. in the interests of sound financial management, i have approved this resolution which allows the adoption of the draft amending budget to enable the european union to meet its legal obligations by the end of 2013 and to avoid the carry-over of unpaid invoices in 2014.
in writing. i voted for a strengthening of the mff line payments and a shortage of payment appropriations in the 2013 budget. this is a crucial vote to fill the 2013 budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget so that the european union can honour its commitments for 2013. this was a key condition for us to be able to adopt the multiannual financial framework, and i am pleased that we have reached agreement.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague giovanni la via. it concerns an increase of eur 3,9 billion in payment appropriations for 2013 to meet several objectives: to meet the remaining needs until the end of the year; to honour legal obligations arising from past and current commitments; to avoid financial penalties; and to enable beneficiaries to receive the appropriations provided for by the policies for which commitment appropriations had been authorised. the report was adopted by 575 votes in favour, 88 against and 18 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. − with the adoption of amending budget no 8 for 2013, the resources needed to keep the eu's commitments and pay all the 2013 bills have finally been secured. the payment of the commitments contracted for the current year was made possible by long negotiations and the firmness of parliament, which allowed the approval of the ada 2 in two tranches - and therefore also of the ada 8, for a total of an additional eur 11.2 billion. i believe that we have succeeded in avoiding the jeopardization of important european programmes and, therefore, the union's budget deficit. today's vote is also important because it also allows us to give the green light to the 2014 budget and to approve the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 8/2013, which is intended to enable the european union to settle the commitments for 2013 that the current budget does not cover. the commission has already approved eur 7.2 billion of the eur 11.2 billion needed by the council and parliament last september. this amending budget covers the sum of 3.9 billion.
in writing. this report endorses the 8th amending budget of the union for 2013. it allows for an increase of eur 3.9 billion in the available payment appropriations to be used to pay the oldest arrears to the various european funds. far from covering all outstanding arrears, this extension will only cover those arrears which expose member states to financial penalties from the suppliers or service providers concerned. the extension had been requested in vain as early as march 2013, but it was not until the first financial penalties were imposed that the council reacted. this new bricolage reflects the chronic under-budgeting of the union budget for several years. the report rightly deplores the resulting "abnormally high number of unpaid invoices". parliament has been denouncing it in its budgetary resolutions, but to no avail. however, the situation is getting worse and the 2013 budget will still leave almost 20 billion in commitments unpaid. i am voting for this report in order not to prevent the release of funds without which the member states would be exposed to financial penalties. but i deplore the totally chaotic management of the european budget under austerity auspices.
in writing. spain has experienced a sudden collapse in the construction sector following the economic and financial crisis, with unemployment rising to 29% in the valencia region. i therefore supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which specifically provides additional support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the egf because spain faces 630 redundancies in 140 enterprises due to a large loss of market shares in the production of other non-metallic mineral products. the commission established the profitability of the union industry by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the redundancies in spain are linked to major changes in the structure of international trade, which have led to an increase in imports into the union of other non-metallic mineral products and a reduction in the union's share of the world market in the manufacture of these products.
in writing. the comunidad valenciana is currently facing a number of economic difficulties, mainly due to the rapid developments in world trade. to enable it to cope with this, and to support the workers concerned in these difficult times, i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is a concrete manifestation of european solidarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it seems to me appropriate, in this situation, to call on the european globalisation adjustment fund which was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. spain and the valencian community meet the criteria for assistance from the egf because the construction sector has been severely affected by the consequences of the economic crisis and is also subject to strong external competition. such repercussions in this particularly important sector in spain have now greatly aggravated the already fragile situation of the region's labour market. this is why aid seems legitimate to deal with redundancies and to revive employment in this region.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague andrej plenkovic which aims to provide €840 000 to the region of valencia, which has been hit hard by the crisis. the report calls for the mobilisation of these funds to be accelerated, which will benefit 140 enterprises in the region. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 840 000 for spain, which is facing redundancies in the manufacturing of construction materials. the purpose of this legislative instrument is to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in world trade and to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. the globalisation fund is doing its job well. instead of helping workers, it encourages companies and governments to submit to the dictates of liberal thinking. the example of the comunidad valenciana is a case in point: the construction sector is experiencing a sharp decline due to the massive increase in imports of products directly competing with those manufactured in spain. 630 redundancies occurred in 140 construction companies (non-metallic minerals). it is not a question of blaming the 'crisis' as the spanish government is doing, but of putting in place a solidarity protectionism which will allow the maintenance of an ecologically and socially acceptable industrial activity in europe. i abstain in order not to deprive spanish workers of this fund.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the region of valencia, which is currently experiencing significant financial difficulties. the aid will help to co-finance active labour market measures in the region aimed at the reintegration of dismissed workers and the creation of sustainable jobs for the population of the region.
in writing. the agreement on government procurement (gpa) is a multilateral treaty concluded with some members of the world trade organisation (wto) which deals with the conditions for the award of public contracts. i voted in favour of the conclusion of a protocol amending the gpa in order to increase clarity and transparency and to improve its operation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement on public procurement because its main aim is to guarantee its signatories (ec + 14) equal treatment between tenderers for a public contract (regardless of their nationality). its main contribution is to provide legal certainty for eu companies wishing to access foreign markets. it is a major concern that creates a disproportionate feeling. on the one hand we open up our public procurement to foreign competition, but on the other hand there is no principle of reciprocity and national preference applies in third countries. the two improvements made relate to the rules governing invitations to tender (transparency, equal treatment, possibility of using electronic tendering, obligation for the parties to create a central database containing notices of public contracts free of charge, possibility of taking account of the environmental dimension, etc.) and then to the scope of the agreement, including the abolition of sectoral exemptions enjoyed by certain parties (korea, japan, israel, etc.).
in writing. the public procurement agreement is a tool of choice for eu companies to expand into foreign markets. by extending this agreement, we are further reducing the barriers that could prevent them from accessing it, and we are making the rules on public procurement more transparent and effective. this is a real step forward for the competitiveness of all european enterprises, and especially smes.
in writing. multilateral agreements negotiated within the wto must ensure balanced trade relations between states. today, competition with certain third countries in the field of public procurement is neither fair nor equitable. while european markets are open to foreign products and investments, the reverse is not always automatic. the wto agreement on government procurement should therefore allow european companies better access to public procurement in third countries. this agreement should not exempt the union from having its own rules to defend its commercial interests. this will be the subject of the forthcoming reform of trade defence instruments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i support the conclusion of a protocol amending the previous agreement on public procurement of the world trade organisation. the binding agreement has been renegotiated to adapt to developments in information technology, to broaden its scope and to remove the remaining discriminatory measures. in the course of renegotiating this agreement, the european union has managed to obtain several benefits which i support, including the acquisition of some eur 30 billion in new market access opportunities for our european companies.
in writing. you have described this amendment to the wto agreement on government procurement, which concerns only 15 signatories, as a remarkable step forward. i hope that is not the measure of what you are able to do in the transatlantic negotiations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. more than 90% of public contracts in the union are now, in fact or in law, unilaterally opened to competition from operators in third countries, compared with only 32% in the united states, 28% in japan and 16% in canada. and the protocol only changes those proportions marginally. a regulation to impose reciprocity in these areas is apparently under consideration. commissioner de gucht even claims that it is necessary, so that we can negotiate on an equal footing with our main partners. but then why did we approve this protocol or sign the agreement with canada, since this means, on the contrary, that in at least these two cases we have been abused, because we are not on the same footing as the others?
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague helmut scholz approving the signing by the european commission of the 1996 public procurement agreement as amended. the main aim of the agreement is to guarantee its signatories (eu+14) equal treatment of tenderers for public contracts, irrespective of their nationality. it thus provides legal certainty for eu companies wishing to access foreign markets. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendments to the government procurement agreement, which is the only legally binding agreement of the world trade organisation (wto) dealing with public procurement. this report marks the conclusion of negotiations with stakeholders, including the eu and the us, which started in 1999. this amended version of the agreement is clearer and more transparent, it is closer to the european directives on public procurement and it guarantees european suppliers new market access opportunities.
in writing. this report proposes to ratify the trade agreement negotiated by the commission to further open up national and local public procurement to international competition. in the context of the wto, this agreement extends the number of signatory countries, particularly among the countries of the south. it is therefore welcome that the scholz report offers new trade opportunities for the european union. the committee on development and cooperation also regrets that the trade protection of the southern countries is weakened by this agreement, which fears the "economic and social costs resulting from the loss of public contracts by national companies". more generally, the agreement opens up new sectors of public procurement to international competition, particularly in services and construction. it will repeal some of the localisation clauses applied by certain countries, notably the usa (the 'buy american' rule). the possibility of introducing environmental conditions in tendering procedures is a very small step forward in the face of the risks of this new trade liberalization. it contradicts the efforts to relocate the activity and to promote short purchasing cycles. i am voting against this agreement, which seriously undermines the sovereignty of states in the award of public contracts.
in writing. the 'erasmus for all' or 'erasmus+' programme brings together all existing programmes and actions in the fields of education, training and youth. this programme is essential and i voted in favour of this report because it made it possible, among other things, to provide a new source of funding for sport of eur 240 million, or 1.8% of the total budget for this programme.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new programme for education, training, youth and sport. erasmus for all alone replaces seven current programmes, including the lifelong learning programme 2007-2013 (comenius, erasmus, leonardo, grundtvig, study visits) and the youth in action programme. it will allow, from 2014, to strengthen actions in favour of learning mobility for young people and staff and innovative cooperation between institutions or between institutions and other education and training organisations.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the pack report, which guarantees the european union's commitment to education and youth. young people are the future of europe. this new 'erasmus plus' scheme promotes quality training by extending the previous mobility programmes. this european academic and professional exchange mechanism will now concern not only students but also apprentices, professionals in training, youth association leaders, volunteers and young sportsmen. this programme is the symbol of european unity in its cultural and linguistic diversity. i have chosen to pass on and honour this european heritage. this is a major step forward for european identity, training and employment of young people.
in writing. i strongly supported the adoption of the erasmus+ programme. the guarantee mechanism for loans for master's students is a worrying deviation, but the french socialists have ensured that it is limited in terms of the budget allocated and strictly controlled. two key victories are worth noting. the 40% increase in the budget will enable some 5 million young people to benefit from an experience of mobility abroad, thus improving their skills, especially linguistic ones. the new programme also extends the mobility opportunities for young people in apprenticeship or vocational training, contributing to equal opportunities in europe. with the introduction of the youth guarantee, this new erasmus+ programme is tangible proof that europe has understood the importance of giving all its chances to the young generation.
in writing. with the new erasmus+ programme, europe is moving towards a more dynamic vision of education, and more importantly, one that is better adapted to constantly changing knowledge, techniques and needs. erasmus+ is more coherent: the programme now brings together all youth programmes, whether they concern initial, continuing education or sport, while retaining the strong identity of each programme, including the best known of all, the erasmus for students programme, whose success has marked generations of students. the programme will also focus on reducing administrative burden and simplifying procedures, so a more efficient and accessible programme should emerge. i welcome the fact that some of my proposals have been incorporated into the final text, particularly with regard to the establishment of concrete monitoring and evaluation actions to ensure the full effectiveness of the programme.
in writing. the erasmus and erasmus mundus programmes are two of the european union's outstanding achievements in the field of education and vocational training, which have also helped to forge a sense of belonging and attachment to the european project among the younger generations. the second generation of erasmus for all has made progress in terms of both its structure and its budget. it will no longer be for the benefit of a few hundred thousand privileged people but for students of all ages, apprentices and young workers. the programme also recovers an increase of more than 40% in the allocation for the period 2014-2020, i.e. an overall budget of around €14.7 billion. 4 million young europeans aged 13-30 are expected to benefit from the exchange programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a welcome step but it is not enough. in the long term, erasmus for all should be offered to a majority of young europeans. this will require the mobilisation of all in the coming years to enable this programme to be a true european federator.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of this new programme for education, training, youth and sport, which is supposed to be more effective and has a clearer structure to meet the european union's ambitions in this area. i believe it is particularly important to support good education and training conditions for our young people by encouraging learning mobility abroad and encouraging cooperation on good practice and innovation. this is why we must give our young people the means to move around our territory and to live a european experience, thus spreading the feeling of belonging to european citizenship through the discovery of our continent.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which will encourage mobility in the fields of education, training, youth and sport. erasmus for all (or erasmus+) will bring together all the former programmes relating to international mobility in education and training (erasmus, comenius, leonardo da vinci, etc.). this emblematic programme is one of those that really show the added value that europe can bring to its citizens! the simpler and more readable 'erasmus for all' will help to bring the great opportunities of mobility to more young people, notably through a budget increase from previous years, which will reach over €14 billion. in the face of the crisis and the ever-worsening unemployment of young people, it was urgent to implement a youth policy that would strengthen skills and make europe more attractive internationally.
in writing. i have given my full support to the new erasmus+ programme, which will have a stronger budget, with a doubling of mobility grants, and which will ultimately benefit 5 million europeans. i also welcome the adoption of a programme for vocational education and training which also includes this part of education which has long been excluded from european exchanges. i will, however, remain vigilant about the introduction of a loan mechanism for master students: while these loans are accompanied by certain guarantees (such as a reduced interest rate, non-discrimination, etc.), they must nevertheless remain at a low level of the programme (3.5% of the budget) and not encourage young people to take on debt in the future. similarly, the individual mobility of people in the labour market and of adults which was provided by the leonardo and grundtvig programmes is now being transferred to the structural funds, which will require special attention to ensure that the funds can actually be used to finance these mobility actions.
in writing. the erasmus student exchange programme, which has benefited many students, is one of the very few successes of the european union today. it is one of the only european programmes to see its budget increase, while appropriations are being massively cut. in its cruel lack of recognition, the european union has not dared to attack this symbol head-on. the attack is more insidious. it is the very structure of scholarships that is threatened by the programme voted on today by the european parliament. until now, the erasmus programme has only included a grant scheme. from now on, students will be encouraged to take out loans. as unemployment explodes in europe, can we ask our young people to enter the labour market with debt up to their necks? how can you ask a young person to pay off a loan when your first job is an internship paying $470 a month? for this reason i voted against the new version of the erasmus programme submitted to the european parliament, which dangerously paves the way for an american-style university system.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague doris pack. the renowned erasmus+ programme is based on three pillars: education and training; youth; and sport. a student loan guarantee scheme will provide them with more training opportunities, and erasmus grants will complement the credit mobility scheme. the erasmus programme has been a real success, with 252 827 students studying abroad in the academic year 2011/2012. the report was adopted by 632 votes in favour, 29 against and 30 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the erasmus for all programme, which will enable more than 4 million europeans to receive support to study, train, work or volunteer abroad. this programme is a key element not only in developing labour market skills but also in promoting active citizenship and participation in democratic life, especially for young people.
in writing. this new programme for education and training, youth and sport 2014-2020 does have some positive aspects (simplification, combating early school leaving, mass sport). but he is introducing an "erasmus master" through a "student loan guarantee mechanism" the details of which are left to the technocrats. it is a time bomb, institutionalizing student debt at european level, as in the united states, where more than 40% of people under 30 are already in debt after taking out a loan for their studies. it is also a way for the european commission to compete with national scholarships and to give itself a new area of competence, accelerating the bologna process which organises competition and the commercialisation of higher education. i am voting against this sword of damocles over future generations, whose over-indebtedness is already under way, particularly in the countries which are subject to the intervention of the troika.
in writing. this proposal covers all the programmes and actions put in place by the european union in the field of education for the period 2014-2020. while i am pleased that this programme has escaped budget cuts (its budget has even been increased), i am sorry that a new guarantee system for student loans has been institutionalised. i was in fact campaigning for the development of scholarship schemes which are better able to support students and which avoid them getting into debt even before they enter the labour market. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's decision to approve the new erasmus+ programme which will facilitate the mobility of european citizens in the fields of training, education, youth and sport. with a total budget of eur 14.7 billion, more than 4 million young europeans, including young people from the overseas territories of the atlantic, indian and pacific oceans, will now be able to benefit from it. in the new erasmus+ programme, the remoteness of young people from overseas territories from the european continent has been duly taken into account as they should be able to benefit from special grants. this is a major step forward for our young people and i am very happy about it.
in writing. today we welcome a new programme for education, training and youth in europe. the commission's proposed strategy of centralising the old programmes is also quite understandable. there was a need for greater clarity and readability, both for the beneficiaries and the intermediaries who manage the funds allocated. however, this should not have resulted in the loss of the identities of each programme. each area (mobility of students, apprentices, training for adults, teachers, etc.) has its importance. i would therefore like to reiterate that the mobility of young workers and apprentices is an essential element in the fight against youth unemployment, in order to facilitate their integration and in the promotion of skills and know-how.
in writing. i voted for this report. launched 26 years ago, the erasmus exchange programme has enabled more than three million students and teachers to go abroad through its scholarships. it has become one of the most positive symbols of our union. i am proud to note that in these times of european budgetary shortages, we have been able to increase the budget of the new erasmus programme for the period 2014-2020, with an ambitious target of four million students benefiting from an experience abroad by 2020. the new programme merges all the existing initiatives for reasons of clarity and administrative efficiency, and adds a sporting dimension. in addition to faster access to finance, it should strengthen cooperation between educational institutions and businesses (more than 400 'knowledge alliances' are planned), but also with youth organisations, local actors and ngos. the programme also proposes ambitious new measures such as the loan guarantee mechanism of up to eur 12 000 (over one year) or eur 18 000 (over two years) on favourable terms for students wishing to pursue their master studies in a foreign country.
in writing. i could only support the new, updated and adapted to the needs of our globalised economy, version of this flagship programme of the european union. it will now cover school education, vocational education and training, adult learning, youth and sport. since 1987, over 200,000 students have benefited from the programme, and the benefits of the programme are recognised by all europeans: numerous studies indicate that a period spent abroad enriches students' lives not only academically and professionally, but also in terms of language learning.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the creation of the new erasmus+ programme, which brings together all existing european programmes in the field of education, training and sport. it is very important that the european union invests not only in higher education (through the erasmus programme) but also in vocational education and training through the leonardo da vinci programme. this programme allows apprentices, for example, to receive a grant to acquire professional knowledge and skills in another member state of the european union. it is also crucial that the european union invests, through the grundtvig/lifelong learning programme, in the training of adults and experienced workers who wish to diversify their professional skills. the grouping of the erasmus+ programme will also help applicants to understand the different possibilities open to them. the programme will have a budget of €14.7 billion for the years 2014-2020, representing a 40% increase over current programmes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the famous erasmus+ programme, which brings together european actions for international education and training, including the famous scholarships, as well as new actions for sport and youth. i am pleased that its budget has been increased by 40% to bring the number of mobility opportunities to almost 5 million over the period 2014-2020. europe thus chooses to enable its young people to strengthen their language skills, to bring them a unique experience and to enable them to participate in the construction of europe. two things are in the picture: the mobility of jobseekers will no longer be financed by erasmus+ but by the european social fund, as the liberal-conservative majority did not reject my amendments. but the black dot remains the loan guarantee mechanism for the master students. i strongly opposed it. this will result in students being forced to go into debt. it would have been better to use that money to fund more scholarships. the young are our priority and the union must support them, not lead them down dangerous paths. my opposition to this loan mechanism should not, however, obscure the many advances made by erasmus+.
in writing. the erasmus programme is one of the best known and most recognised european initiatives. it enabled 2.5 million young europeans to benefit from a mobility grant between 2009 and 2014. it is one of the symbols of european citizenship in the subconscious of our citizens. i therefore welcome the vote on my colleague's report, which increases the erasmus+ programme by 40% for the financial year 2014-2020. this clearly offensive budget, which we socialists have brilliantly defended, will enable 5 million europeans to benefit from a mobility grant. i think this report responds to the concerns of europeans about unemployment by focusing on the sub-programmes for teaching and learning, whose budgets will be increased. i am particularly pleased that the constraints of remoteness faced by people from the ors have been taken into account, as has the opportunity for people from the overseas countries and territories to participate in the programmes. i remain concerned, however, about the student loan mechanism instead of the scholarship. although we have succeeded in putting in place important safeguards, i deeply regret that our young people are starting their working lives with a certain handicap.
in writing. this is a new programme entitled 'creative europe' (2014 to 2020) which will bring together the existing culture, media and media mundus programmes. i voted in favour of this report because this programme will be accompanied by a new financial facility to facilitate access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and organisations in the cultural and creative sectors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft report by the culture committee on the new creative europe programme. it will support, over the next seven years, the mobility of european works and artists and the adaptation of the audiovisual sector to the digital age. a recent study has shown the weight of the cultural industry in our economy, which should not be underestimated.
in writing. i voted in favour of the costa report establishing the creative europe programme for the period 2014-2020. the programme aims to develop the creative culture sectors. these two sectors together account for 4.5% of gdp and 3.8% of employment in europe. while respecting national specificities, it is appropriate for the european union to commit itself to the promotion of culture and creativity.
in writing. i voted for this text first and foremost to protect and strengthen the cultural identity of the european union, which draws its strength from its diversity. the creative europe programme will provide support to the various cultural sectors, in particular through the provision of funding for businesses in the sector. the need to adapt the audiovisual sector to the digital age was becoming urgent. by ensuring better distribution of european cultural works in the union and the world, this programme gives a concrete dimension to the european cultural exception.
in writing. the arts and creative sectors play an important role in the european economy: they account for around 4.5% of eu gdp and employ more than 8 million people. they also contribute, through their influence, to europe's standing on the international scene. the new creative europe programme is a good investment. it will enable our vibrant cultural sectors to create new jobs and make a greater contribution to the eu economy. between 2014 and 2020, it will fund at least 250,000 artists and cultural professionals, 2,000 cinemas, 800 films and 4,500 book translations. it will also set up a new financial guarantee mechanism of up to eur 750 million to enable small cultural and creative enterprises to access bank loans. it will enable thousands of talented artists to reach new audiences in europe and beyond, while promoting cultural and linguistic diversity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text establishing a creative europe programme for the period 2014-2020 which provides the cultural and creative sectors with a financial instrument to promote cultural diversity and strengthen the competitiveness of these sectors in europe. i recognise that this programme must be designed with a coherent grant scheme, ensuring that smes are well integrated into this programme. i therefore support a 'creative europe' which should stimulate innovation in our companies and thus generate growth in these sectors in europe.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague silvia costa which envisages merging the former culture, media and media mundus programmes into one package for the period 2014-2020, with a financial mechanism that will facilitate access to finance for smes and cultural and creative actors. a network of creative europe offices will be established in the member states to improve understanding of the characteristics of the programme for each sector. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the creative europe programme, which is made up of two separate programmes, namely a culture programme and a media programme. the aim of this facility is to support the cultural and creative sectors in order to promote european cultural and linguistic diversity, enhance cultural heritage and develop a european identity. the programme will also help these sectors to adapt to industrial and economic change, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the european audiovisual industry.
in writing. the creative europe framework programme proposes to bring together european policies in the european cultural and audiovisual sector. the report does indeed refer to the unesco convention, which insists that cultural property should not be 'treated as having exclusively commercial value', but the rest of the report makes it completely null and void. the competitiveness of the cultural and creative industries is the main objective of this report. the programme depends on the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the growth and employment objectives it includes and therefore on general austerity policies. the european union 'supports and complements the member states' actions to strengthen the competitiveness of its sectors'. i am voting against this text, which promotes economic competition in the cultural sector. the first victims will again be the most vulnerable populations.
in writing. the programme aims to create bridges between the cultural and audiovisual sectors to help them meet the challenges they are facing today (fragmentation of the european market, the need to adapt to globalisation and the digital shift, and the difficulty of accessing credit for smes in particular). this is a comprehensive approach to european cultural policy. it has the potential to increase synergies between the existing culture and media programmes, thus enhancing their effectiveness. this is a major improvement which justified my support for this report. i hope that the european commission will also be involved in this programme in financing cultural projects and centres in the ors, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the new creative europe programme, with a budget of eur 1.4 billion for the next period 2014-2020. by providing financial support to the cultural and creative sectors, the european union recognises that these areas play a key role in cohesion and social inclusion. i particularly welcome the opportunity for the octs (new caledonia, french polynesia, wallis and futuna, saint barthélemy and saint pierre and miquelon) to benefit from this programme. it is a unique opportunity to showcase the cultural and artistic riches of our overseas territories.
in writing. some people see culture as folklore. it is nevertheless an important part of the economy in some parts of europe. in france, we are very attached to our culture. and we share some of our heritage and culture with parts of europe. this is the aim of the programme: to promote the links which have forged europe. but i insist that this programme really bears fruit, that citizens can identify europe's support whenever it participates in an event, a symposium, an artistic production. otherwise, all the benefits will be lost. and this must include the promotion of our most obvious heritage. for my region, roman times are a pillar of its history, as are other regions of europe, not just the mediterranean.
in writing. i supported this report. despite the economic downturn, europe is not forgetting the creative and cultural sectors, which account for almost 5% of european gdp and 3.8% of the european workforce. we have thus managed to mobilise almost €1.4 billion for the creative europe programme over the period 2014-2020. creative europe will merge two well-known programmes in the cultural sectors - media for the audiovisual sector, which accounts for the bulk of the budget, and culture, which is behind initiatives such as the european culture prize, the heritage label and the european capitals of culture. a third cross-sectoral strand has been added, which will open up financing to dynamic sectors that are less subsidised by the european union; i am thinking in particular of computer science in the cultural field. the new measures include a loan guarantee mechanism which will facilitate access to loans for smes and micro-enterprises with cultural and creative projects. this should stimulate the activity of many start-ups. our assembly has also fought for funding for subtitling, dubbing and audio description of european films to improve access to non-national european works.
in writing. i voted in favour of the creative europe programme, which brings together the cultural and audiovisual activities of the european union. these two sub-programmes, media for the audiovisual and culture for the creative and cultural sectors, will support european creativity, diversity and excellence and will be accelerators for growth and jobs in these sectors. thanks in particular to my work and that of the socialists and democrats, including the rapporteur, silvia costa, a mechanism to facilitate access to credit will be set up for smes and small organisations. it will enable these structures to finance their projects by guaranteeing them at european level. smes and small creative and cultural structures will be able to strengthen their own production and thus develop these sectors. i am glad that, despite the threats from the european commission and the right, the media programme will continue to support european film production and the cinemas that will be assisted in their digital transition. the european seventh art, in its richness, diversity and originality, is one of the pillars of our culture.
madam president, the european union now has almost 500 million inhabitants. it is our duty to involve them more closely in the development of our europe and this is what the new 'europe for citizens' framework programme should be about. that's why i voted for him. citizens are the basis of the legitimacy of our institutions, which is based on a sense of common belonging. in order to strengthen this european awareness, based on the shared values of the european union, 'europe for citizens' aims to strengthen memory and strengthen the capacity for civic participation. i regret, however, the legal disagreements between the council and the commission which have deprived our parliament of its power of codecision. i also regret that the budget is being cut and may not be up to the challenge, while the populists and eurosceptics continue to gain ground every day. hopefully we can do more with less!
in writing. i voted for this programme which, despite its ambitious title, is only a procedural matter at the time of the vote, with no particular impact. it has been treated as if it were a codecision procedure when it is an approval procedure.
in writing. with this text, we are working to strengthen the collective memory and the daily engagement of europeans in their civic life, to strengthen european identity. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to put europeans back at the centre of the union's political life. it is regrettable, however, that parliament has not had the opportunity to take up this text in a meaningful way through the ordinary legislative procedure (co-decision): to deprive the representatives of the citizens of action on a text aimed at strengthening the participation of citizens in europe is a strange paradox.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 'europe for citizens' programme because, especially in difficult times like today, it is important to make our citizens aware of the actions of the european union. i welcome the desire to organise more debates on union-related issues at local, regional and national level to strengthen the feeling of european citizenship and to encourage a willingness to participate in the european project. as a european citizen, i travel my territory every day to debate, to exchange ideas and to explain europe to my fellow citizens. i can therefore only praise the benefits of such a dialogue aimed at restoring confidence in the european project. i also consider it particularly important to perpetuate the work of remembrance of european history among our fellow citizens.
in writing. i have given my voice to this programme in particular because it is an essential tool for making europe live on a daily basis and for promoting our common history as closely as possible to our territories, through twinning or through the houses of europe. the themes of action chosen are particularly relevant: active european citizenship, intercultural dialogue, the well-being of people in europe around employment, social cohesion and sustainable development, and the impact of community policies on societies. moreover, thanks to the efforts of the socialists, access to aid will be made easier for associations, especially small structures. i regret, however, the hesitation which has been experienced in relation to this programme, with regard to the disputed powers of the european parliament to take a decision as a co-legislator on a text as fundamental to european citizenship as this programme.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague hannu takkula, which was based on a legal basis which changed after the vote in the committee on culture, following an agreement with the other institutions. the validation of this agreement therefore required a rejection of the report in plenary. most of the parliament's proposals in the report have nevertheless been taken up by the council and will lead to the strengthening of this programme to improve civic participation at european union level.
in writing. i have accepted the approval procedure for the programme europe for citizens 2014-2020 . this programme is important because it aims to bring europe closer to its citizens through various initiatives such as the twinning of european cities, the organisation of conferences linked to the european union, commemorations. the aim is to open a dialogue with civil society and public institutions at all levels. the participation of european citizens, and especially young people, must help to make the concept of european citizenship more concrete.
in writing. the objective of this programme is to strengthen memory and capacity for civic participation at union level, in continuity with the current programme. the report has the merit of opposing the commission's proposal, which introduces a change in the legal basis of the programme to restrict parliament's rights. but the view of european history presented in this report draws a parallel between nazism and stalinism, forgetting about other fascist regimes and focusing on communist dictatorships. this rewriting of history is unacceptable and it is difficult to see how it can be used to forge a so-called 'european identity'. i vote against it.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the 'europe for citizens' programme. in my view, the pursuit of european integration is inseparable from the adherence of our citizens to the very idea of european union. in this sense, several actions are needed to make everyone aware of a common project. i particularly welcome the emphasis in the text on the notions of history and memory: in my view, a common european destiny is inconceivable without an appropriation of past events. as a member of the european parliament elected from new caledonia, i can only encourage the establishment of such a dialogue within my constituency and among my fellow citizens, who, although geographically distant, are full-fledged european citizens.
in writing. this report renews the citizenship programme, which has enabled the implementation of over 9000 eu awareness-raising projects between 2007 and 2013. despite good ideas, the programme lacks ambition due to lack of financial resources. the overall budget for the programme was reduced after the disappointing negotiations on the future european budget. however, i gave my pragmatic support so that it could start on time in 2014. it is more than urgent to restore confidence in our union, and this must be done by an effort to raise awareness both of europe's past - and its darkest moments - and of its present and the opportunities it offers european citizens in terms of funding, protection and free movement. the programme, which has been renamed 'europe for citizens', has been redesigned to reflect this, since it now comprises two parts - one on european memory (which will focus in particular on totalitarian regimes in the history of the 20th century) and the other on the functioning and civic participation within the european union - complemented by actions to exploit the results of the initiatives already launched, in order to make them increasingly effective.
in writing. i voted in favour of the europe for citizens programme, which funds actions to provide information about the european union, to promote our common history and heritage and to defend minorities in the eu. it is involved in building citizenship and strengthening european democracy. i am pleased that it focuses on the fight against discrimination and xenophobia and i am reassured to see that associations which do popular education work in the territories are supported by this programme and whatever their size. this programme is necessary in the period to combat euroscepticism, national withdrawal and fear of the other. i do, however, find it regrettable that this budget should be at the expense of budgetary austerity. this is a political mistake in a difficult context for the european union, where it is necessary to give our citizens the means to understand europe and to make it their own so that they can choose its representatives for the next 5 years in full knowledge of the facts.
in writing. europe for citizens is a very small budget. symbol of the place the eu gives to its citizens: €169 million for 7 years, or +/- €20 million per year to bring the €2 million for the european year of citizens closer. as if that were not enough, the majority of this ep has rewritten the objectives of this programme, reducing the 'citizenship' part, civic participation to the benefit of a 'memory of european history' part, limited to modern history, trivializing nazism, amalgamating fascism, stalinism and communism. a first... what contempt for the millions of communists who gave their lives fighting nazism and fascism and so forth in southern europe. moreover, european history did not begin with the second world war and it is not for politicians to write it or lock it up. it is centuries of history that have built europe and it would be good not to forget this, particularly because european countries have not always played a good role in this history (i am thinking in particular of colonialism and the slave trade). the gue/ngl therefore refused to endorse these deviations and voted against this budget.
madam president, the european union has in its genes the freedom of movement, whether for goods, capital, services or people. that is why i voted for the european interconnection mechanism and transport networks. while mobility in europe is a given in people's minds, we still have a lot of work to do to offer them a european transport network that lives up to its promises. today, the adoption of this ambitious mechanism is a real step forward for intra-european transport. i come from a border region, on the border of spain. the added value of europe is clearly visible in this. european funds have helped to build a high-speed railway line, which will soon connect perpignan to barcelona, and thus develop the economy of the area. unfortunately, the completion of the missing link between perpignan and montpellier, which would have connected seville to amsterdam, has been postponed by the french government, in defiance of european priorities and its offers of co-financing. i hope that the adoption of these reports will change his mind.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the connecting europe facility (cef). the emi will be the new financing instrument for three eu infrastructure networks: transport, energy and telecommunications. these three networks form the basis of the single market. significant investments in modern, efficient, sustainable and flexible networks are key to the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable economic growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the connecting europe facility. it will help to promote the major european transport networks. the need for mobility is regularly highlighted, whether for employment, the economy or leisure, but we need interconnection mechanisms to ensure our policies. the cef will have a total budget of around eur 29,3 billion for 2014-2020. some 23.2 billion will be allocated to the transport sector. eur 5.12 billion will be allocated to energy, to modernise and extend energy infrastructure and to increase security of supply. another €1 billion will be allocated to telecommunications to encourage the development of broadband networks and digital services.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the connecting europe facility (cef) to finance a european network in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications. this mechanism, by enabling the union to support interconnection projects in these sectors, completes the european single market. in the transport sector, the aim is to ensure cross-border links, to increase transnational trade while ensuring the free movement of citizens. the security of energy supply can be guaranteed. in the telecommunications sector, the financing of modern and efficient infrastructure will stimulate investment in digital services.
in writing. the adoption of the report on the connecting europe facility, which will finance the trans-european transport network, marks a new era in the european union's transport policy: it sets more stringent funding criteria for sustainable transport modes, in particular rail transport, and provides more substantial funding for projects with european added value, including cross-border works to remove the most important congestion areas in europe. i am therefore pleased that the lyon-turin rail tunnel project can receive 40% co-financing from the european union, which shows the full support of the european institutions for this ten-t flagship project.
in writing. this ambitious text aims to provide the union with a mechanism to facilitate investment in truly european transport, energy and telecommunications networks. it is a further step towards the completion of a single market, with greater energy security, more reliable and easier transport between european countries, and ever faster and cheaper telecommunications. these are achievements which are visible to all europeans and which will change their daily lives: we have everything to gain from these investments being made as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which establishes a connecting europe facility (cef) because i am convinced that such an instrument will be effective in accelerating investment and mobilising the necessary funding for the development of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure. the eic will not only contribute to the europe 2020 strategy by developing trans-european networks that take into account future transport flows and create a more favourable environment for private, public or public-private partnership investments; the commission will also be able to support projects with real european added value. i was particularly attentive to the objective of this mechanism in the transport sector, which is to remove bottlenecks and to establish missing links, particularly for cross-border sections, for all modes of transport. these measures will thus really help to facilitate traffic in our territory and particularly in crossborder regions such as mine. it is through this mechanism that the lgv bordeaux-toulouse line will finally be able to benefit from priority european funds to be completed as soon as possible.
in writing. in the negotiations with the council on the priority transeuropean transport networks (ten-t), the greens succeeded in integrating new criteria: sustainability, social (creating jobs), the need for european added value (the projects financed could not be without europe). that's very positive. i voted against this agreement, however, because there is a total mismatch between these sustainability criteria and the fact that it focuses only on nine corridors, which are strategic, but which have a good chance of being funded anyway. with the €26 billion provided, hundreds of small cross-border projects/infrastructures could be financed. projects that would never be funded without europe's input. this is a real european added value. rather than focusing on megaprojects, the eu's role could be different.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it will make it possible to develop the trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications networks, and thus improve the economic and social cohesion of our territories. the agreement reached between the institutions will provide the connecting europe facility (cef) with an overall budget of €33 billion. i regret, however, that this budget has been reduced by 17 billion compared with the original proposal. these are strategic infrastructures for our economy! infrastructure financed as a priority should have a high added value at union level, be smart, sustainable and benefit all member states and their regions. i am therefore pleased that the lyon-turin railway project has been selected as one of the priority projects in the mediterranean corridor, which will allow for substantial european co-financing. the lyon-turin line for freight and passengers is an essential infrastructure for the attractiveness of the alpine region and a driving force for growth, employment and competitiveness for our companies.
in writing. the adoption of this report is particularly important for improving crossborder connectivity and interoperability, which is why i supported it. the programme will also support territorial development and employment by modernising europe's energy infrastructure, increasing supply and reducing dependence on a specific energy source. in the telecommunications sector, european funding will also be available for projects to develop broadband, which is an essential means of reducing the difficulties in providing access to the internet for all, and i welcome this.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleagues dominique riquet, adina-ioana valean and ines ayala sender which aims to accelerate investment in trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications networks through a specific mechanism. the budget for the programme is 33 billion euro, of which 26 billion euro is for transport, 1 billion euro for telecommunications and 6 billion euro for energy. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report establishing the connecting europe facility, which aims to accelerate investment in the trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications networks. the €23 billion investment over the period 2014-2020 will make a significant contribution to european economic growth and job creation through investment in transport, energy and telecommunications networks. these are crucial for the internal market and will improve cross-border mobility, interconnection of energy networks to diversify gas supply and explore the possibility of transporting renewable energy.
in writing. this report deals with the 'connecting europe facility' (cef) and sets out the common rules and procedures for the granting of eu financial assistance to trans-european networks in three main areas: transport, energy and telecommunications. these sectors are of primary concern to the general european interest. the commission's aim is not the social and ecological utility of the projects financed, but the completion of the internal market and competitiveness. the objectives are not the right ones. nor are the means used to achieve them, since it is planned to rely for a large part on public-private partnerships. the rapporteur does not question this logic, but rather encourages it. they point to the lack of public funds and call not for more funds but for projects to be sorted out and therefore not to be implemented in part. we must reverse this logic and implement a genuine ecological planning in the service of the general human interest. i am voting against this text.
in writing. none of the priorities adopted allows the specificities of the outermost regions to be taken into account. it is therefore not necessary to explain further why this mechanism is a partial and piecemeal interconnection mechanism. in view of this unequal treatment, i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. it is essential that the european union be synonymous with transport policy. this is a development that citizens, particularly in france, have been waiting for for a long time. this requires the identification of priority areas for the proper structuring of the european territory. this is something that has been done today, both in terms of the priorities and the means put on the table. the funds available must now be deployed in the most appropriate way so that they are put to good use. europe must stop squandering its funds.
in writing. with the connecting europe facility, europe is getting a new tool for growth, jobs and competitiveness. investment in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure should stimulate hiring at the time of construction, create operating opportunities at commissioning, and increase the attractiveness of the regions concerned. by promoting the interoperability of electricity and gas networks, the text should help to reduce the energy insecurity of the member states. by stimulating the use of intelligent transport systems, it will contribute to the harmonious development of traffic in europe. i therefore voted in favour of the connecting europe facility, especially as it is a powerful instrument for european integration and the creation of sustainable infrastructure. my only regret will be the small budget allocated to this facility (eur 33 billion instead of the 50 requested), which will be only slightly offset by the use of innovative financial instruments, restricted by the will of the member states, despite their ability to raise private funds for projects that meet our political priorities.
in writing. the purpose of this regulation is to centralise, simplify and make conditional the allocation of funds in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, with a view to supporting the creation of integrated european networks. i think it is essential to give practical effect to the freedoms granted by the internal market in these areas. for example, how can we ensure the free movement of people if our rail networks are not easily compatible? how can we continue to reduce the cost of mobile roaming without making it easier to connect internationally?
in writing. this is a new eu infrastructure policy aimed at creating a genuine european infrastructure network and no longer just isolated projects. i voted in favour of this agreement because it provides for the establishment of a central transport network by 2030, which will become the pillar of the single transport market. the new ten-t core network will be based on a global network of roads, which will supplement the core network at regional and national level. the global network is expected to be completed by 2050.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines of the european union for the development of the trans-european transport network, more commonly known as ten-t. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european railway network.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ertug and koumoutsakos report. this is a major step forward for european transport policy. the creation of a transeuropean transport network will optimise the mobility of goods and the competitiveness of the european industrial sector. the interconnection of european cities will be improved.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on the guidelines for the trans-european transport network, which will strengthen trade between the eu member states and facilitate the movement of its citizens. removing bottlenecks to cross-border traffic and promoting more sustainable modes of transport, in particular rail, are among the objectives prioritised in the report adopted today. i am particularly pleased that the lyon-turin project has been included in the ten-t map as the central part of the mediterranean corridor extending from west to east across europe. the european institutions have confirmed their support for the project. the south-east of france will thus be directly connected to the rest of europe.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this text which aims to give europe a genuine transeuropean transport network. we are thus able to think globally about the increasingly frequent and cross-border movements within the union. the aim is to set up a network that would make free movement a reality for all europeans, supporting growth and jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i support the creation of this trans-european transport network (ten-t), which provides europe with an efficient, sustainable transport network that benefits its users and promotes accessibility and connectivity in all regions of the union. when we were drawing up this legislation, one of our priorities in the transport committee was to ensure that the added value of this transport network was maximised. we have therefore tried to make real progress in this area with limited financial resources. i also support the principle of establishing core network corridors, created to encourage the coordinated development of infrastructure and its efficient use in terms of resources. i also welcome the inclusion of toulouse as a priority urban hub and the inclusion of the lgv bordeaux-toulouse line in the projects eligible for priority european funding. the amendments i have defended in this connection have been supported by my colleagues and i thank them for that. it is high time that toulouse was served by an lgv and regained the place it deserves in europe.
in writing. in the negotiations with the council on the priority transeuropean transport networks (ten-t), the greens succeeded in integrating new criteria: sustainability, social (creating jobs), the need for european added value (the projects financed could not be without europe). that's very positive. i voted against this agreement, however, because there is a total mismatch between these sustainability criteria and the fact that it focuses only on nine corridors, which are strategic, but which have a good chance of being funded anyway. with the €26 billion provided, hundreds of small cross-border projects/infrastructures could be financed. projects that would never be funded without europe's input. this is a real european added value. rather than focusing on megaprojects, the eu's role could be different.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleagues georgios koumoutsakos and ismail ertug. the new infrastructure policy approved by the european union aims to create a genuine network and is no longer focused on isolated projects. the report therefore envisages the establishment of a central transport network by 2030, which will become the pillar of the single transport market. a road network will be added to the core network and this comprehensive network should be in place by 2050. the report was adopted by 546 votes to 104, with 41 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a transeuropean transport network, which will improve the functioning of the current system, which we see is lagging behind and has problems with project financing. the new regulation introduces two distinct objectives: the establishment of a central network by 2030 to link the eu's main urban nodes, its main ports and its border crossing points. the second objective is longer-term: by 2050, it aims to create new roads, which will extend from the central level to the regional and national levels.
in writing. the commission conceives the transeuropean transport network as a means of linking together large areas which are generally very attractive and often already well connected. the aim is to enable the people of the union, but also and above all goods, to move quickly from one end of europe to the other within the framework of the european single market. although targets for reducing greenhouse gases are mentioned, they are not binding. the rapporteur for parliament improves the text in the margins, in particular by taking into account areas with a low population density and by adding the notion of 'contribution [of transport] to well-being'. unfortunately, it is useless to improve a text with bad background, bad aims and bad methods. we must have a real ecological planning system, with short-distance transport being the priority, and where short-distance transport is not possible, infrastructure must be created to enable goods to be transported over long distances in an environmentally friendly way. the text of parliament is not up to the social and ecological challenges of our time. i vote against it.
in writing. it is essential that the european union be synonymous with transport policy. this is a development that citizens, particularly in france, have been waiting for for a long time. it is necessary to identify priority areas for the proper structuring of the european territory. this is something that has been done today, both in terms of the priorities and the means put on the table. i would like to stress in particular the question of high-speed rail lines. i come from a region, languedoc-roussillon, where it is a first-rate tool for economic development. the amsterdam-seville line is a backbone of the european network. it only has a few hundred kilometres to go before it is fully operational. the present french government has decided to postpone its construction between montpellier and perpignan to the greek calendar. i hope that the european perspective, which makes this a priority, will change his mind, as he has done on the atlantic section of the lag.
in writing. the new version of the eu guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network is a step in the right direction. by implementing a dual approach (central network to be completed by 2030 and comprehensive network to be completed by 2050), it will help to better identify funding priorities and thus avoid waste of public money. this planning at community level should also encourage the development of infrastructures which really meet the needs of our economy. i am also pleased that parliament has also obtained ex ante studies identifying the social, economic and environmental costs and benefits of any project receiving european funds. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the ten-t text as it emerged from the negotiations between the commission, parliament and the council. it now remains for public authorities, whether at national, regional or local level, to fully exploit the potential of these new guidelines to advance their projects.
in writing. i voted for the report on agricultural and fisheries statistics because it will make it possible to remove, by the end of the seventh parliamentary term (in june 2014), from all legislative instruments, all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report aligning european legislation in the field of statistics for agriculture and fisheries with the treaty of lisbon. by classifying the european commission's powers between delegated and implementing acts, this legal consistency allows for the economic and technical progress of the agricultural and fisheries sectors to be taken into account. these revisions adapt european legislation to the new challenges facing workers in these sectors. the choice to classify the competences acquired through the adoption of the treaty of lisbon makes it possible to secure the power and the scope of competence of each institution.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to bring the means of control in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics into line with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european parliament will continue to be vigilant to ensure that the prerogatives of the european commission are not disproportionate, since these statistics have a direct influence on the measures which frame and accompany the sectors of activity concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it seems natural to me to adopt measures to improve the coherence of european legislative measures by adapting our legislation to institutional developments. it is therefore necessary to define the powers of the commission in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics. i am also in favour of streamlining these statistics with better coordination and greater efficiency.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague paolo de castro. the main objective of this report is to replace the regulatory procedure with scrutiny by delegated acts for nine legislative acts in force. it is in response to the commission's proposal to amend these legislative acts in the fields of agricultural and fisheries statistics in order to bring them into line with the new institutional context. it also involves modernising the european statistical system. the report was adopted by 667 votes in favour, 23 against and 4 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on agricultural and fisheries statistics, which is an alignment with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. the aim is to replace the regulatory procedure with scrutiny by delegated acts in nine existing legislative acts.
in writing. the report proposes to set out the conditions for the transfer of competence from the european parliament to the commission for the adoption of delegated acts. i am systematically opposed to this type of delegation where the field in question enters, in whole or in part, into the field of political arbitration. in this case, the substance of the subject concerns a reform of the organisation chart of the commission's statistical services requiring legislative reform. this is a matter of pipeline management, a simple reorganisation of services which, in a properly organized administrative system, could have been settled by circulars! i note that the transfer of delegated powers is time-bound and that parliament can oppose tacit renewal. i vote for it.
in writing. as rapporteur on this text for my political group, i called on my colleagues to vote in favour of it. while it is very important to develop crossborder cooperation in the field of water to improve the management of large basins, the helsinki convention is so far open only to member countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). to counter this paradox, the helsinki convention had to be amended and opened to all un member countries interested in this crossborder cooperation in the field of water. the european parliament's vote today confirms this openness and the development of cooperation between partners and neighbours.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes (helsinki convention). the report aims to improve water management by opening up the helsinki convention to non-unece countries.
in writing. the european union is already a party to the convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes: the aim of this vote is to allow the convention to take full effect by establishing genuine multilateral cooperation by allowing any un member state to accede to the convention.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal in order to promote access to the convention for a greater number of countries. i am also aware of the problem of crossborder watercourses, since the garonne, which runs through the midi-pyrénées and aquitaine regions, has its source in spain in the val d'aran. the ariège also has its source on the border between the pyrénées-orientales and the principality of andorra, before flowing into the garonne. i believe it is essential to promote the protection of these waterways, which are often the lifeblood of the economy of many municipalities in our territories.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, which opens the door to any un member state to accede to the unece convention. the participation of new states will encourage cooperation on the management of transboundary water resources, in particular in view of the increasing pressures of climate change.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to give the european union's approval to the amendments to articles 25 and 26 of the helsinki convention, which is today one of the only international instruments for cooperation in the management of international waters and lakes. this text opens accession to the convention to states not members of the unece (united nations economic commission for europe) area. so this is primarily china, afghanistan, iran and central asia. given the ecological and geostrategic importance of international water resources, it is positive to move towards an expansion of this cooperation. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which gives a positive opinion to the council in the context of the european union's contribution to the iter research project to enable better knowledge and control of the nuclear fusion process.
in writing. i voted for a report establishing a complementary research programme on the iter project (2014-2018) to enable funding for the iter project, which is a significant investment with extremely high potential benefits. however, this financing must be subject to a ceiling and therefore to a maximum contribution in order to avoid cost overruns on a project which has already experienced many.
in writing. at a time of debate on the energy transition, this text provides the iter project with real support to enable it to move towards the development of a new source of energy that is both safe and environmentally friendly. it is regrettable that the question of the financing of this project is still being debated: the europe of large projects should be a reality, to give new meaning to european ambition! i am therefore pleased that iter will continue to be financed from the european budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of the european union continuing the iter programme (international thermonuclear experimental reactor). it is important to invest more in research and development of energy-producing technologies in harmony with environmental protection, and in particular for scientific advances in the exploitation of energy from fusion. fusion energy, unlike nuclear fission, is a natural phenomenon which we must exploit to develop clean energy for the environment. this is a key sector for ensuring the sustainability of reliable, sustainable energy while ensuring our energy independence and security vis-à-vis third countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for continued funding of research and development activities for the iter fusion project. the iter project is unique in that it is the result of cooperation between the european union, japan, russia, the united states, china, the republic of korea and india to develop fusion energy. this energy could eventually prove to be a credible option for commercial electricity production without greenhouse gas emissions, and safer than fission energy because it does not involve a chain reaction. the text we have approved should set a clear roadmap for the iter project, improve its governance and ensure that it can have a sufficient budget to move forward, while also setting limits on any cost overruns. as the host of the reactor, built in cadarache, in the heart of the provence-alpes-côte d'azur region, it is crucial that the eu has the means to take a leading role in this project.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague vladimir remek, whose main issue was the financing of the iter programme under the multiannual funding framework, but the european commission has now referred the report back to the council and the european parliament on a new proposal, making it obsolete even before it was adopted in plenary. we have nevertheless adopted this report in order to encourage the commission and the council to take account of parliament's opinion on the iter dossier. so i'm glad he was adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's position on the supplementary research programme for the iter project, the international fusion energy research project. although this is a significant investment from a scientific and technological point of view which merits the commitment of the european union and the continuation of the project, the parliament must be able to monitor the proper execution of the budget as discharge authority and therefore additional information should be provided to it in the future.
in writing. the european union's hopes for the iter project are illusory and ruinous. the energy transition must immediately focus on sobriety and efficiency. if we hope to produce infinite energy, we're going in the wrong direction. the cost of iter is higher than the energy savings that would be achieved by the same amount invested elsewhere. the danger of the project, which is rejected by some in the scientific community, and the investment costs of a random result are all reasons why i am voting against increasing investment in iter. the urgency of an ecological transition requires priority investments in renewable energy and a public debate on nuclear energy.
in writing. it is crucial that the european union actively supports scientific research, including in the nuclear field, so i supported this proposal for a council regulation which allows the eu to implement a research framework programme, horizon 2020, which extends to nuclear research and which allows in particular to expand the participation of smes and prevent the 'brain drain'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new research and training programme of the european atomic energy community for the period 2014-2018. by defining the rules for the participation of research bodies, universities and businesses, we ensure greater coordination of research efforts between member states; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste. to this end, i pay particular attention to the role of the joint research centre (jrc) in supporting scientific and technological innovation.
in writing. with this text, we affirm our ambition to see the benefits of nuclear research extended to europe as a whole, and we put in place measures to ensure that nuclear research receives the resources, including human resources, it needs. the report's recommendations are welcome in this respect, underlining our ambition to see more smes involved in the nuclear research chain, and aimed at tackling the skills shortage threatening the sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i support the continuation of the euratom programme for the period 2014-2018 under the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, in order to develop scientific advances in the field of nuclear energy. the european union cannot afford a shortage of nuclear expertise because of the brain drain. that is why europe must remain an attractive area for researchers, particularly in the nuclear field, in order to guarantee our continent's leading position in this field and our energy independence vis-à-vis third countries.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague peter skinner, which supports the integration of the euratom programme into the horizon 2020 framework programme and proposes cross-cutting measures for simplification, strengthening nuclear safety and security and improving working conditions for nuclear researchers, in particular to prevent brain drain outside the european union. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european atomic energy community's research and training programme which aims to support the safe operation of nuclear systems, to contribute to the development of solutions for nuclear waste management, and to support the development and maintenance of nuclear competence at union level.
in writing. the text as amended by the european parliament provides for support for the european initiative for a sustainable nuclear industry. the report does indeed introduce new information in relation to the commission's proposal. the risk associated with nuclear disasters is taken into account. it focuses on research into low-dose radiation and waste storage. it mainly concerns the working conditions of nuclear workers. but this text broadly resumes the original proposal, in particular in favour of the development of 'new generation nuclear energy' and fusion at european level. the framework imposed and the weakness of the programmes envisaged, particularly on the option of dismantling the plants, as well as the absence of reference to basic research for the cooling of waste, do not encourage support for this text. i vote against it.
in writing. european citizens have legitimate concerns about the safety of nuclear installations, whether they are located within or outside the borders of the european union. the chernobyl and fukushima accidents have shown that there is no such thing as zero risk. however, very concrete measures can be taken to reduce these risks very significantly. in order to ensure that the european union has the means to cooperate internationally and thus reduce these risks, i voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on cooperation on nuclear safety because it makes it possible to make this cooperation instrument sustainable. the debate on nuclear energy, its usefulness and its environmental impact must not also hide the safety aspects. the fukushima accident has reminded us that risks exist and that in europe, at the continental level, risks are shared. indeed, any accident, even a minor one, can have far-reaching cross-border effects. that is why i voted for this regulation, which funds measures to support a higher level of nuclear safety, radiation protection and the application of effective safeguards for nuclear materials in third countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the measures developed by the krahmer report for the long-term and safe sustainability of the european nuclear industry. safe and reliable european nuclear energy must be followed by effects at national level. in the field of safety of nuclear infrastructure and nuclear waste treatment, i have advocated strict transposition of eu law into the legislation of the member states.
in writing. nuclear energy ensures security of supply at a lower cost for millions of europeans. the fukushima disaster should not make us forget that the high safety requirements surrounding all reactors are essential to their proper operation and are the basis for the confidence that europeans place in them. strengthening cooperation on nuclear safety is therefore a necessity to enable the dissemination of the know-how and knowledge needed for reliable nuclear energy for the benefit of all europeans. the independence of supervisory authorities is crucial in this respect, and europe has a real leadership in this area, which it can pass on to its partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which recognises in particular the importance of finding ways of strengthening the safety and security of nuclear installations in europe and at its borders. the practice of stress testing in all member states and in the third countries concerned, in order to detect potential risks, also helps to promote the development of safe energy. i also believe that countries receiving european aid must respect european nuclear safety standards.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague holger krahmer which aims to make the nuclear safety cooperation instrument sustainable, which funds measures to support a higher level of nuclear safety, radiation protection and the application of effective safeguards for nuclear materials in third countries. i regret, however, that a provision has not been adopted calling for certain member states not to be relieved of their responsibilities in implementing existing legislation on safety and management of nuclear waste.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on cooperation on nuclear safety in order to achieve a high level of nuclear safety. the chernobyl and fukushima accidents have confirmed the importance of investing in nuclear safety. the european union could play a major role in cooperation with third countries on the international stage. the results of recent stress tests in europe are important for developing similar standards in third countries.
in writing. the principle of such an instrument of cooperation in the field of nuclear safety is good and necessary. the nuclear risk does not disappear at national or european union borders. however, this instrument may prove counterproductive. the main budgetary considerations are to focus efforts on the union's neighbouring countries or those in the process of joining. in the light of fukushima, should we remind ourselves that the nuclear risk is a global risk? it is therefore incomprehensible that this proposal for a regulation does not take account of the imminent danger posed by the situation in fukushima! but this is where a great deal of effort must be made! the proposal also encourages cooperation with operators in stress testing, which may encourage the extension of the life of power stations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this clearly shows that the text only deals with nuclear safety in parts and not as a whole. i vote against it.
in writing. lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria operated old nuclear reactors which were considered obsolete by the international community and their dismantling was provided for in the accession agreement of these three countries. in recognition of the exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burden of this early closure, it is appropriate, and this is the spirit of my vote, to support financially these three member states in carrying out this dismantling.
in writing. i voted for the chichester report on the decommissioning assistance programmes for nuclear installations in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia. the regulation aims to extend eu financial support to these three countries in order to achieve an irreversible state in the decommissioning process of three nuclear power plants (kozloduy, ignalina and bohunice vi), while maintaining the highest possible safety level. europe is taking action to coordinate the dismantling of these plants because, at the level of our european union, an accident can have consequences for all the countries of the union.
in writing. in order to join the union, it was agreed that bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia would close and dismantle nuclear reactors deemed to be obsolete and which would entail expenditure too high to meet safety standards. the union has decided to support them in this development, given the scale of the investments to be made. the adoption of this text will enable europe to meet its commitments to these three countries. i welcome the emphasis on management, audit and control requirements and on performance evaluation of decommissioning programmes, which will ensure that the best possible use is made of europeans' money.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because while i recognise the need for solidarity within the eu, i am nevertheless in favour of the establishment of basic conditions for obtaining the funds, such as alignment with the union acquis, in particular in the field of nuclear safety, or the establishment of a national legal framework containing provisions for the allocation of national financial resources necessary for the completion of decommissioning in accordance with safety requirements.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague gilles chichester which aims to extend eu financial support to these three countries in order to achieve an irreversible state in the decommissioning process of three nuclear power plants, while maintaining the highest possible level of safety. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the nuclear decommissioning assistance programmes in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia, to help the member states concerned implement a continuous process towards the final and irreversible state of the decommissioning process of nuclear power plant units, in accordance with union law on nuclear safety.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to extend the eu's support for three decommissioning projects in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia. the european union is once again faced with a situation which illustrates the dangers of nuclear power and, above all, the large amount of unknowns surrounding it. even if decommissioning is only one aspect of the major problem facing nuclear power, this report is necessary to fill the initial gaps in these decommissioning projects. it draws some conclusions from these failures, particularly in the follow-up of the steps taken to decommission and distribute the funds. it is not, however, concerned with the dangers and the impossibility of managing the nuclear risk under acceptable conditions of safety and environmental protection. furthermore, since decommissioning of nuclear power stations is largely an unknown activity and the funds provided cover only one fifth of the estimated additional costs, additional aid is likely to be needed. i am voting for this report in order to contribute to the denuclearisation of these countries.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - madam president, this revision of the european social fund confirms the fundamental role of this instrument in the fight against social exclusion and poverty. in concrete terms, each member state will now have to allocate a minimum of 20% of its esf budget to the fight against poverty. the fund, which has so far been devoted to improving employability, will now aim to give everyone the means to enter the labour market. in order to achieve this goal of social inclusion, it was necessary to broaden the range of beneficiaries, which we have done. i welcome the explicit mention of 'support for the development of the social and solidarity-based economy' and the promotion of the green economy, as well as support for socio-cultural projects and the cultural industry. i hope that the administrative simplification which is being proposed will really make these funds more accessible to small organisations. finally, the principle of macro-conditionality, which consists in cutting european funds to member states in order to prevent or punish economic mismanagement, should not be applied to a social fund such as the esf. the member states in economic difficulty are those for which social investment is crucial. it would therefore be inhuman not to give them the funds that are intended for the populations most in need.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, after two years of negotiations, we are finally adopting the regulations of the cohesion package. with €325 billion, the new policy will make it possible to invest in growth and jobs in all european regions. in these times of crisis, the structural funds are the last large-scale public investments in europe for the future. the growth pact is the fruit of the long-term negotiations we have been conducting here since 2011, and not the trophy of the french socialist president. these funds will not be spent for nothing: we have set up conditions for investment to be targeted on sectors of the future, such as research, new technologies, sustainable development and smes. many innovations have been introduced: thematic concentration, strategic planning, territorial approach, urban funding and, above all, performance and efficiency, which have been brought to the fore so that taxpayers can measure the added value of these funds. one particular success is the creation of a new category of transition regions, which will allow for a more equitable distribution of funds at european level. my region, which suffers from high unemployment, will thus benefit from an increase of 15%. finally, as regards territorial cooperation, i would like to point out that nearly 200 million european citizens live in border regions. the internal borders of europe are the scars of our warring history, the places where all the benefits and drawbacks of integration become visible and materialize. territorial cooperation helps the territories and regions to finance joint projects: a hospital, a crossborder theatre, a bilingual nursery, joint management of environmental risks. thanks to our commitment, its budget is the only one to increase, with almost 9 billion euros for 2014-2020. it is now up to the states and regions to take over, without complicating or politicizing these funds.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, as a member of the negotiating team, i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs and our committee chair, danuta maria hübner, for the work they have done throughout this negotiation. i naturally share the concerns raised by the maintenance of macroeconomic conditionality. as has been said, this sword of damocles, although weakened by the european parliament, will now unfairly weigh on the regions. but in the restricted framework, which is that of any negotiation, i consider the compromise proposed to be generally acceptable and to safeguard the essential. the european parliament, with the many improvements that have been made, has, i believe, been at the meeting of codecision. you know what these improvements are: better involvement of civil society, simplified procedures, a minimum share for the esf, taking account of sustainable development in the objectives, but also taking account of the specificities of the outermost regions, whose cofinancing rate is maintained. today all the regions are waiting to be able to start projects as of 1 january 2014, and i believe that the spirit of responsibility must prevail. that is why i will vote in favour of the proposal, while remaining aware of the work that lies ahead of us to consolidate regional policy beyond 2020.
mr president, tomorrow, after two years of work, the reform of regional policy will finally be voted on. it is a political event not to be missed if we want to promote european action among citizens throughout our territory. this reform provides for progress in relation to current programming. less spread out, funds will be easier to use and more focused on concrete results. the reform will also be much more environmentally friendly, in particular thanks to the erdf, which will invest heavily in the ecological transition and less in large, unnecessary infrastructure projects. it will also be more equitable, thanks to the creation of a category of regions in transition. it will also be more humane, thanks to the action of the european social fund, which will not only be used for integration through employment but also for the fight against poverty and youth unemployment, two scourges which are exploding today with the crisis. and yet, not everything is so rosy. ladies and gentlemen, by voting for the compromise on the multiannual budget, parliament has just sacrificed cohesion policy on the altar of austerity. its budget will be cut by 8% at the very moment when we need more than investment to get out of the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are deprived of our right to amend. let's keep it consistent! let us reject macroeconomic conditionality together! the compromise is unacceptable. by linking the disbursement of funds to the control of public deficits, it holds the regions hostage, even though they are not responsible for the economic governance of their state. regional policy must not remain a tool of sanction, discouraging longterm investment, but must be a tool of solidarity and cohesion. let us not deprive parliament of the opportunity to vote on this amendment tomorrow! we environmentalists will not back down. we cannot endorse this message of resignation to the european citizens.
mr president, the future cohesion policy is being put to the vote in the european parliament after a long process which began at the beginning of this mandate. a project to renationalize cohesion policy was then in progress, a project which we blocked until the appointment of the new commissioner, mr hahn, put an end to it. following preliminary discussions, a new architecture for these funds, with the creation of transition regions, was adopted. this sets out a vision for the future of convergence between europe's regions, beyond simply catching up with the historically lagging regions. that's a major accomplishment. as regards content, each of the funds brings significant innovations: the cohesion fund, with its stated environmental objectives, the erdf, whose greening is a real satisfaction for our group, with in particular the objective of combating global warming, guaranteed as a priority in each of the regions of europe. european territorial cooperation also has a satisfactory content, but we are very disappointed with the financial arbitrages which have sacrificed this policy, which is the most emblematic in terms of european construction. however, the extension and simplification of the egtc regulation gave hope of great progress in the next five years. unfortunately, we will be locked in a very unfavourable financial situation. in general, parliament insisted on achieving administrative simplification objectives. let's hope they're held. finally, we cannot ignore the unacceptable logic which makes a policy which links europe to a region of europe dependent on macro-conditionality depending on the member state. this is completely unacceptable in principle. of course, you have to share and not throw the baby out with the bath water. but it is clear that this measure is a very serious setback imposed by the member states to the detriment of european integration.
mr president, commissioner, the adoption of the new cohesion policy is a strong signal for growth in europe. the structural funds will represent €325 billion of investment in our territories over the period 2014-2020. during this mandate we fought to build a more equitable cohesion policy. we must of course continue to support the regions whose development is lagging behind, but we must also take account of the specific needs of regions with an intermediate level of development. the new category of regions in transition, for which i have fought, is aimed at greater fairness in the distribution of aid. this category offers appropriate support to regions that are neither too rich nor too poor. the new cohesion policy will also be better targeted through thematic concentration and conditionality. we must move from a shop-shop approach to a project approach, with a focus on investments that create jobs and growth. i am of course in favour of a 25% envelope for the european social fund, because employment must be the union's priority. however, there is still a major area of work to be done: simplification of procedures. much has already been done at european level to facilitate the work of the beneficiaries, but we know that the bulk of the administrative burden is borne by the member states. now they have to do their share of the work. i therefore regret the decision of the government of my country - france - to entrust the management of the structural funds to the regional councils rather than to the regional prefectures. the temptation to favour the territories governed by political friends of the regional power may be strong. we'll have to be on our toes.
mr president, commissioner, as the economic crisis drags on and as job losses threaten more and more europeans, the negotiations on the future of the european social fund have been very difficult, all against a backdrop of budget cuts and hesitations about the own resources needed for an ambitious budget. the european social fund, originally designed to support the professional integration of disadvantaged groups, has evolved. it now offers a wide range of financing to promote the integration of young people and low-skilled workers, as well as support for enterprises in the face of change. today, the time is short and the regions are worried about obtaining the necessary funds for the projects they support. the social dimension of the european union has for too long been the poor relation of the european project. we must strengthen it at all costs. it is at the heart of the demand movements that are flourishing all over europe. today, the european social fund is a key instrument in the fight against inequalities and one of the most tangible achievements of european solidarity. that is why 25% esf shares in cohesion policies seemed to me - and still seems to me - to be the right dimension for supporting the european union's social contribution to the regions and thus to the citizens.
mr president, after more than two long years of negotiations, we are finally voting on this regulation on cohesion policy. two years which have not been wasted, if only in the opportunity that has been offered to us to put an end to this terrible macroeconomic conditionality. it is an instrument that remains unjust, unjust and, above all, ineffective. the new reform will, however, offer a modernised, simplified, more geographically adapted, more transparent and less administrative european investment policy. i would also point out that this proposal gives the overseas territories a little more of a place in europe. we must welcome our gains, the increase in their budget by almost 500 million euros, the alignment of co-financing rates to 85% for all funds earmarked for them, the derogating provisions which will multiply the impact of regional cooperation. the only regret i have in this upr chapter is the injustice of the mahoras: for the first time, a region in a member state will not have at least the same level of funding as its peers.
mr president, commissioner, it is indeed an honour to conclude these three hours of debate and, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would of course like to thank the whole negotiating team which enabled us, with the council, to reach this agreement on the european social fund. i would like to say again, together with my colleagues, that it is not right that this parliament cannot vote in favour of a european social fund amounting to 25% of cohesion policy. that is what the present unemployment situation, the situation in most of our member states, would require if we were reasonable. the european parliament has done its job. it will now be up to the member states to implement and make full use of its european social fund, including its major innovations. among these innovations, i would of course like to welcome the youth employment initiative, including its youth guarantee. this is a new way of doing european social policy. there is a real breeding ground for social innovation. after the paris summit, we are therefore really waiting for the member states to send their work plans so that once the budget has been adopted, you can fully benefit from this advance in favour of young people and social innovation... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, first of all i would like to thank our two fellow rapporteurs, and especially rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, with whom i worked in the committee on women's rights and gender equality, for the courage, tenacity and intelligence they have shown in bringing this matter before parliament. the text before us, which calls for greater participation of women on the boards of the major european companies listed on the stock exchange, is of course very important for women, for the promotion of women in companies, for the promotion of women in general in access to positions of responsibility, but it is also very important for the european economy as a whole. if we consider that 60% of higher education graduates in europe are women, the imbalance between this proportion of higher education graduates and the underrepresentation of women in the management, management and responsibility structures of large enterprises, we can only be alarmed at the deficit and loss of skills and assets that this represents for our enterprises, especially in times of crisis. the text which has been submitted to us and which we shall - i hope - vote on tomorrow in a very large majority is a balanced, reasonable, astute text, the instrument it proposes is flexible and this text is the result of a broad compromise and a great deal of work. it obviously takes account of the need for greater justice and equality, but it never prevents companies from selecting the best possible candidates, nor does it deny the economic and legal culture of each member state. i hope that now, when the work of the european parliament is completed, the member states will be able to take their responsibilities in the council.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the conditions and criteria for access to the highest positions of responsibility in business are still far from the balanced society to which i hope the majority of us aspire. i would also like to thank the two rapporteurs for the work they have done to put an end - or to try to put an end - to the very closed men's clubs which are essentially the boards of directors of companies today. why go through the introduction of quotas? because without any coercive action, we are unlikely to see any voluntary changes to end the current postures that tolerate the existence of such inequalities in the corporate world. it is not a question of waging a war between the sexes: it is a question of responsibility, of equality. with this quota provision we are aiming for a trickle-down effect, which will really make it possible to move towards the feminization of the executive committees and the management. i would like to invite those member states which are still reluctant to join in this position. several examples illustrate the real added value of such a measure for the health of the enterprise itself. the council must put an end to the obvious mistrust of this proposal and demonstrate its commitment to finally achieving this directive.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to point out an ambiguity in the remarks of several colleagues who have already spoken. they did indeed speak of two seats, cleverly maintaining the ambiguity between seat and workplace. i would like to make a very solemn point about the current state of the law. the european parliament has one seat and one seat only: strasbourg. it's written in the treaties. one seat and one seat only: strasbourg! it's written in the treaties! it is true that there are several workplaces for different parliamentary activities. the own-initiative report we are debating today - that is the title of the report - is supposed to be devoted to the location of the seats of the european institutions. i regret that our two co-rapporteurs have, with a twist of the hand, dropped the question of the location of the seats of other european institutions and have focused - despite the title they have retained for their report - on the question of the seat of the european parliament alone. it should be noted that the question of the seat of the european parliament cannot be dealt with in isolation: it is an integral part of the question of the seats of the european institutions. this has been the case since the beginning of the european construction. there is one principle to which, treaty after treaty, political declaration after political declaration, all the member states making up the european union have shown their commitment, namely polycentrism, the geographical distribution of the various places and decision-making centres, places and centres of power throughout the territory of the european union, expressing in this way the political, geographical, economic, cultural and historical diversity of the european union. it is not necessary to go back to the role of strasbourg and its symbolic aspect as the european parliamentary capital, as a symbol of reconciliation between peoples and as a symbol of european construction. it is clear that by turning our backs on our history and culture, we risk turning our backs on certain foundations of the european project. perhaps it is the hidden intention of some of the propagandists of the anti-strasbourg campaign to somehow empty the heart of the european project of its political substance? in any case, it seems to us that the principle that the european parliament should decide its seat and its place of work independently has little legal or constitutional basis and is not supported by facts and texts. once again, a principle is enshrined in the treaties and we must consider that the question of the seat of the european parliament cannot be separated from questions of other seats.
mr president, we are witnessing the culmination of a process whereby newcomers to the club are claiming to change the rules. this process was based on a number of abuses of power: i remember the invention of the strange concept of 'extended bureau for all members' in order to have a pretext for bringing everyone together in brussels at the same time. the 'extended bureau' which then gradually became the 'mini-session' when these meetings were followed by votes and then debates, without any protest from the french government, and the brussels chamber was built with private funds, because it was totally illegal - a chamber which was rented at a premium in the last hours of president barón crespo's term of office! i understand the economic argument, but the natural response to the economic argument is to bring all the activities, including committee and group meetings, together in what is the official seat of parliament in brussels. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is quite paradoxical to hear a number of our colleagues, such as mr fox, who belongs to a political group which is in principle eurosceptic, proclaim the sovereignty of this house. if this house is sovereign, it is because there is a genuine european state and therefore a european nation! i think, in line with the positions of other political groups, that our assembly is the result of international cooperation and must therefore respect the diversity of workplaces throughout europe, the diversity of agencies, because there is no reason, for example, for the european central bank to be in frankfurt or the court of justice in luxembourg if we have to remove the core of the problem, which you are seeking without really wanting to say it: the seat of parliament in strasbourg.
mr president, that was indeed a slip of the tongue which reveals the confusion which our colleagues are creating in the minds of the most sober and active members of this parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, i simply wanted to respond to the comments of our colleague mr yannakoudakis and with all the respect that i owe, of course, to a colleague elected as i am to the european parliament, to ask him whether the repeated use of the word 'circus' in relation to the travel of meps between their constituencies and the various cities of the european union, between their constituencies, brussels, strasbourg but also many other places where they are taken in the exercise of their mandate, does it seem to him to be in keeping with the dignity of this house and the importance of the subject we are discussing? does he think that the repeated use of the word 'circus' will really strengthen the confidence of european citizens in the european union and in the european parliament? we are a few months away from the european elections, major elections for the future of the european union, not just for our own people and for our assembly. i think we need to work on increasing voter turnout. it is not with such fancy words as "circus" that we can hope to increase the voting participation of our fellow citizens!
mr president, exceptionally, i do not congratulate the rapporteurs. it is a mistake to claim that we alone want to decide on the seat of the institutions. imagine the demands that such decision-making power can bring. a majority could decide at any time to change the seat again. i've never seen a report with so many factual errors. the costs of strasbourg are borne by the anti-strasbourg hat and are not justified. the latter changed their numbers 12 times in three years. what member of parliament can support such figures without comparing and verifying them? you are about to vote on a report that is full of errors. some members of parliament take their wishes for granted, all under the pretext of public support. the famous petition, which reportedly gathered over a million signatures, contains false figures. only one signature is clearly valid, that of the petition's initiator, commissioner malmström. all other amounts - and they are less than one million - are not admissible under our rules of procedure. i also noted names and e-mail addresses that appear several times in the signatures. my amendments on this subject were censored outright. this is outrageous! in short, this report is not up to parliament's standards. is it really serious to reduce parliament to a cost of, what is more, ten cents per capita per year? a few months ago, the tunisian president, mr marzouki, came to this house and stressed the high place of democracy, peace and fraternity between peoples that strasbourg explicitly represents. we all stood up to applaud him! this report is now a betrayal of the very values we stand for. attacking strasbourg is to weaken europe, it is to take the risk of strengthening the eurocracy, europhobia and therefore populism! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer is "blue cardboard". i'm sorry, i had a translation into polish by mistake in my headset at the beginning, so i didn't hear the whole first part of mr häfner's speech. in essence, for the second part, which i have heard, the figures i have and which come from the general secretariat of the european parliament, which are the official figures, it is 51 to 55 million a year of costs for the parliament in strasbourg. this is the calculation i described earlier in my speech. i agree that a single signature may be sufficient to be admissible as a petition, but we should not put forward 1.2 million signatures, since officially, according to the rules of procedure of this parliament, the address, name, signature, identity and nationality are required. all of these elements are missing except for one signature: it is therefore a petition not of 1.2 million signatures, but of 1.2 inhabitants of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the anti-strasbourg campaign has been going on for almost 25 years now, the arguments are almost the same, and what is the concrete result for our institution, but above all what is the benefit for our fellow citizens? you speak of waste when it comes to tri-localization, but is it not really a travesty to use parliament's resources for debates, the time spent, with the only result of having our institution condemned before the european court of justice and basically giving additional arguments to the eurosceptics? i shall answer by developing three arguments. contrary to the opinion of the experts invited to the committee on constitutional affairs, it is still claimed that it is in the nature of things for this parliament to decide on its own seat. this is not the case, since this question is intrinsically linked to that of the other institutions and is ignored in this report and is a matter of primary eu law. in addition, it is promised that this report will lead to an amendment of the treaties, whereas it is authorized by the conference of presidents only under rule 48 of our rules of procedure. this is an ordinary own-initiative report and you know very well that any subsequent attempt may prove fruitless in the council. that was also the message of president hollande here in february. finally, your conclusions are accompanied by a great exaggeration of the figures, which are directly derived from the 'one seat' campaign, which is nothing but a new offensive carried out with the kind contribution - which i am referring to - of the burson-marsteller firm. that is why, tomorrow, i will not be surprised to vote against these conclusions, not only as a strasbourger, but because this report, which purports to defend new powers for the european parliament, is actually serving our institution and misleading our electorate.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i will be very careful and very brief. i would simply like to ask our colleague mr morganti how this increases the cost of his travelling from italy to strasbourg rather than from italy to brussels, since i assume that mr morganti does not reside permanently in brussels. as an italian elected official, he must therefore spend part of the month in brussels and the other part of the month in strasbourg. i suppose he then goes back home, like most of us, to his country, to his constituency, and i do not quite see what this extra cost is that we are talking about so much.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card to ashley fox and gerald häfner. mr president, i ask the two co-rapporteurs to withdraw solemnly the remarks with which they attack this city, which is powerless! it is willingly hosting european parliamentary institutions, at a cost that is justified in the eyes of our fellow citizens, and this is supported by its inhabitants, who also vote in the european elections. strasbourg is the symbol of waste! please, please, please! this building was built by decision of the european parliament. the buildings in brussels were built by decision of the european parliament. the buildings in luxembourg were built by decision of the european parliament. how can we justify treating only france, which accepted a compromise with belgium and luxembourg - unanimously supported by the member states, all of whom benefited from facilities, agencies or other institutions - as selfish? and how do you explain the city being systematically attacked like it is here? i ask that we take into account the cost to the image of this, and the cost to this institution that is engaged in such attacks! (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the report on the fixing of the seats of the institutions of the european union does not deal with the subject, i.e. the seats of all the institutions but only the seat of the european parliament, on the basis of erroneous declarations, particularly as regards expenditure. i asked the general secretariat of the european parliament about the specific costs of parliament in strasbourg. this is how we obtained an accurate estimate of the costs of the parliament's seat in strasbourg for 2010. the annual infrastructure costs for strasbourg are therefore €33.5 million. the additional costs for 12 sessions in strasbourg per report to these sessions in brussels are €18 million, giving a total of €51.5 million in strasbourg-specific costs, or €10 cents per citizen per year. so we are well below the advanced estimates but three to four times overestimated.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, with galileo and egnos, the monopoly of the pentagon-controlled north american gps is finally about to be broken. this is good news for the economic, diplomatic and political independence of the peoples of europe. this is also very good news for employment in industry, transport and services in europe. true, childbirth is not painless. the initial and costly use of public-private partnerships can certainly be criticised. but the fact remains that galileo is the first common infrastructure produced and financed by the union, which is also owned by the union. galileo and egnos must therefore become public services and common goods in their own right throughout the union. i take this opportunity to emphasize that the european space agency is one of the few institutions in our union that is truly effective, useful and at the service of the citizens. it should serve as a model for all the other institutions of the union, starting with the european central bank, which unfortunately only serves the financial markets.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner responsible for the internal market and services, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the european parliament will express its position on the proposal for a regulation on the key information document on investment products. in its communication of april 2009 on retail packaged investment products prips , the commission identified two areas for further development: rules on sales and rules on product information. the current proposal is the result of work on the latter and is part of a wider package of legislative measures aimed at restoring consumer confidence in financial markets, building on a thorough review of the insurance intermediation directive and strengthening the depositary function for ucits. the product information measures contained in this draft regulation complement, in particular, those on investor protection concerning investment advice and sales services within the meaning of the mfi directives and regulations. i have argued from the beginning of the parliamentary debate that the key information document should not be intended primarily to help product initiators sell products, but to inform retail investors to make an appropriate investment decision. this led me to believe that the commission's original proposal could not be limited to packaged products alone. that is why i have proposed that its scope be extended to equities, interest rate based savings products, including sovereign and corporate bonds, term bank accounts and life insurance. as the commission proposal stands, even though the title of the draft regulation covers all investment products, there is a risk that the key information document will encourage smaller investors to buy more complex financial products whose contribution to the financing of the real economy is questionable. in order to secure a large majority in the european parliament, i proposed, just a month ago, at the time of the vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, a compromise which would finally exclude shares and sovereign bonds from the scope of application, while maintaining corporate bonds and financial instruments issued by securitisation institutions. the amendment tabled by some members of the epp group to exclude life insurance contracts has been rejected. beyond the scope issue, the european parliament's negotiating team made a useful contribution to improving the commission's draft regulation by stressing that indicative scenarios for future performance should be based on a multifactor analysis rather than relying solely on a risk indicator based on past performance data. the european parliament's different sensibilities also reflected on the information to be provided on the impact of the investment product in terms of environmental, social and governance criteria, which are now essential elements that the retail investor should take into account when making his investment decision. three other issues have been raised and remain sensitive for certain groups, but they seem to me to be essential to the objective pursued, namely that of effective consumer information and protection in the context of their investment decision. firstly, it is a question of the possibility for national and european supervisory authorities to harmonize their powers so as to give them the possibility of temporarily suspending or prohibiting the marketing of investment products which would prove to be dangerous. the second proposal is for a complexity label to be established for products with highly complex characteristics. the third proposal is to verify the compatibility of the characteristics of these products with the target investors. finally, i considered it necessary to supplement the information provided by the product initiator with that provided by the distributor as regards the costs of the investment, which may vary from one distributor to another. i hope that on this basis parliament will give us a broad negotiating mandate tomorrow so that we can complete this legislation during the current term.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all those who will be helping to draw up the european parliament's negotiating position, which i hope will be put to the vote tomorrow. i hear mr langen's argument that the small investor should not be overwhelmed by a mass of information. but i think that if we are to be serious, we also need, in a changing world, with financial markets that are sometimes very erratic, that information is not formal information and that there can be a real updating of this information. in the same way, i think that when you think about what determines an investor's behavior, the question of who is advising you on that investment strategy and what your investment plan is are elements that matter. i also hope that the european parliament will support the proposal drawn up on the basis of the position of the fictitious rapporteurs and endorsed by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which allows both to strengthen the power of the agencies, to develop complexity labels - as proposed by our chairman, sharon bowles - and to coordinate the work of the national authorities with the european supervisory authorities, in order to really restore that confidence of small investors in the financial markets, which we need to function and to attract enough savings to finance the economy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue card". - i'm not sure i understand mr langen's question. i understood that his main concern was to remove insurance from the scope of this directive. our aim is certainly not to reinforce bureaucracy but i think one of the lessons that we have learned from this crisis is that people need to be more informed about the investment strategies that financial advisers are offering them. that is one of the aims of this proposal and i hope that we can achieve it during this term of office, even with the support of mr langen.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my thanks to a number of people for the words of the previous speaker. the work we are reporting today is of course a collective work, a long, rich, extremely interesting work which undoubtedly marks a new page in the history of the cap, since this is the first time that parliament, the representative of the peoples, has been fully involved in the preparation of this political act. i would also like to say a word to my coordinator, mr albert deß, since i was a new member of parliament during this term and he trusted me with a report which was not anecdotal. the new cap is marked first of all - and this is regrettable, it is a decision of the heads of state and government - by a reduction in the available appropriations, the budget of the states and the budget of the cap. nevertheless, we had an obligation to do better and better. we have, through the report on the common organization of the market, preserved the market orientation of european agriculture, while giving more resources and room for manoeuvre to the actors, producers and sectors. the safety net will take account not only of changes in production costs but also, for the first time, of changes in profit margins. the safeguard clause, which is introduced for all sectors, will make it possible to react quickly when there are serious disturbances on the market. finally, the creation of a crisis reserve, which unfortunately is fed by a levy on the first pillar, will enable us to act. we've been bringing new solutions to a number of productions. we have introduced the milk package even though, in the view of parliament, the decisions taken do not go far enough, and we have not yet taken the necessary decisions. we are counting on you, commissioner, to make new proposals because we do not think that the current tools are sufficient - despite what some players in the sector say - to really follow up on the end of the quota system. the sugar sector will be subject to new provisions from 2017. we wanted to preserve a negotiating framework that works between the players in the sector. agreements between sugar undertakings and producers will continue to be developed within a community framework. finally, the wine sector, which should not have been dealt with, is a sector for which parliament has fought at the request of many members, irrespective of the wine-growing regions of our countries. the authorisation system in place until 2030 will allow for better demand management but will also allow for a balance between supply and demand. finally, as the public authorities put less money on the table, it was i think extremely important to allow the actors to talk to each other and act together. this will be possible through agreements signed by producer organisations and interbranch organisations which will be in line with competition law. finally, the last point i would like to mention is the issue of export refunds, a subject which is being debated, on which there are sometimes different positions when we are here in the house or when we are on the ground. we've secured an agreement to back up this tool in case of a crisis. i thank all those who have contributed to this balance, this new balance between the north and the south of europe, because i believe that the introduction of parliament into the debate has also made it possible to rebalance policies by taking better account of the aspirations of the different peoples who make up our union.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, commissioner, we regret the agreement reached in the trilogues, which marks the end of sugar quotas for 2017. it is a revolution that is operated when you know that for decades the whole system was based on guaranteed prices and quotas. from now on, in my region, on the island of reunion, sugarcane growers will be subject to fluctuations in international prices and it is the stock exchanges that will hold in their hands the fate of thousands of sugarcane growers and the development of our islands, organized around this traditional sector. however, commissioner, as you saw during your visit to réunion, the cane sector has achieved a high level of performance and has the resources to cope with this shock. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, is this reform of the common agricultural policy meeting the challenges of the moment? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. no, because the law of the jungle of the world market will continue to dictate agricultural prices to producers, since this cap still refuses to fix basic prices for small farms. it just consents to create a meager safety net. for example, the protection of our products and the environment? no, because the free trade law, which allows the import of gm soybeans or north american beef under intensive conditions, will not compensate for the greening "measures" proposed here. and this will be aggravated tomorrow with the free trade agreement with canada, or even the transatlantic single market or the agreement with mercosur. the ones for greater social justice? nor is it because the proposal we have defended for modulation of aid and a ceiling on public aid has been defeated, particularly by the council. fortunately, this can be somewhat tempered by the possibility of granting a premium for the first hectares, at the request of the french government, as well as by increasing aid to young farmers and by defining the concept of 'active agriculture'. on the other hand, milk quotas will be abolished, against family farms, which will encourage the industrialisation of milk production in europe. the challenges posed by the necessity of embarking on a process of environmental transition, which is necessarily long, taking account of climate change, concerned with the sustainable management of agricultural and water resources, which requires new instruments, new incentive tools at the service of the working peasants in the interests of society as a whole, are also not being addressed despite the initial proposals you made, commissioner. instead of contributing to solidarity, the council has pressed for budget cuts and our parliament unfortunately accepted this yesterday. in the end, this is a serious missed opportunity to establish a new peasant agriculture, rich in jobs, revitalizing the territories, guaranteeing the quality, security and food sovereignty that we lack.
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to denounce the lack of respect for democracy in this final vote on the cap. president schulz's attitude of voting the texts directly, in blocks, so that the last amendments tabled are not discussed is unacceptable and says a lot about his vision of democracy. the cap voted today maintains injustices between farmers by refusing to cap aid. a handful of big farmers will continue to receive millions as europe goes through an unprecedented social and economic crisis. but this cap maintains the injustices between farmers in the different member states. it misses the ecological conversion by rejecting the introduction of a crop rotation including a pulse crop. it sabotages rural development by allowing member states to recover up to 25% of this envelope for payments under the first pillar. it endorses the re-nationalisation of the cap and exacerbates competition between farmers in different regions. it undermines the only common policy we have managed to put in place by allowing member states to nationalise it. unfortunately, it does not strengthen the power of farmers in negotiations with large retailers and large companies. finally, i hope that the work on delegated acts will allow for real transparency and real dialogue before they are put in place. perhaps we can, through these delegated acts on agriculture, initiate new work at european level. i would also like to say that, despite the attitude of the agri-food lobbies, despite the selfishness of the countries, we have made it possible to start a new agricultural policy, at least in its spirit. i would like to commend the role of commissioner cioloş, who has put forward a number of ideas. i am now giving you an appointment to start the long-awaited reform: the cap by 2020. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". it is clear that the way in which president schulz refused to take account of the few amendments tabled which did not call into question the duration of the debate, is an unacceptable attitude. the fact that we want to vote as a group, without taking amendments into account beforehand, is something that cannot be described and is contrary to the spirit of this parliament.
madam president, while aid to farmers is essential for the maintenance and development of agriculture and rural areas, it cannot in itself constitute a genuine agricultural policy. by limiting itself to the distribution of aid, by liquidating the last quotas for milk in 2015 and for sugar beet in 2017, and by refusing to put in place a policy of price and volume regulation, the cap 2014-2020 definitively abdicates its role as agricultural policy by completing the deregulation process started 20 years ago. this cap gives free rein to social dumping, which is currently ravaging french agriculture and seriously destabilizing european agriculture. because today, some of the most brutal attacks are coming from certain member countries. i would like to mention just one example: germany, which has a policy of mass supply in the pig sector, based on an hourly labour cost of less than 4 euros, both in the farms and in the slaughterhouses. this regular offensive to take over the markets of other member states is totally unacceptable. yet, for years, nothing has been done to stop it. and what will the new cap weigh tomorrow in relation to the free trade agreements negotiated with canada and the united states? i didn't say anything. we know that the production costs of farmers across the atlantic are up to 25% lower than ours and that they also benefit from the advantages of a currency that is weaker than the euro on export markets. finally, nothing is said about the unbearable pressure that large-scale distribution is putting on the margins of our farmers.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate parliament on the work it has done in its new role as co-legislator. we have not achieved the perfect reform that i, as a socialist, could have imagined, but we have made real progress. progress for equity, for greening, for regulation. in a crisis, we need to be more vigilant than ever about the legitimacy of public support. we must start from the assumption that 80% of the aid went to 20% of the farmers. we must get rid of the policy of supporting the agricultural pension. at the moment of this debate, in my country, france, the farmers who are demonstrating today are those who have the highest incomes, which seems to me totally inappropriate. this reform, although it does not go far enough, initiates a process towards employment, added value and income, by abandoning historical references, a significant internal convergence and a surplus of the first hectares, as well as the ceiling, which, for the first time, has become mandatory beyond 150 000 euros. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we shall therefore have to see what choice is made by the member states, although i would have preferred that this ceiling or choice be made at union level. we must now prepare for the future reform, as has already been said, in order to go further on the initiative taken by the text we are presenting today. i would like to conclude by calling for vigilance, as has also been said by previous speakers, on the question of delegated acts. we cannot, commissioner, when drafting delegated acts, fundamentally go beyond the content of the reform which was adopted at the end of the trilogues between the council, parliament and the commission.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with a budget of over eur 400 billion for the next programming period, the cap remains the first european policy. only five years ago - i will remind you - it was almost accepted that this support for our agriculture should be abolished. this is a very important policy: today we are affirming our commitment to a sustainable and competitive agricultural model. we support our farmers' commitment to environmental protection while strengthening the competitiveness of their businesses. we are also focusing on young farmers by setting up a youth entry support for farmers under 40. the reform also provides safety nets to reduce the volatility of commodity prices. the market for our agricultural products must be regulated. in this connection, it is important to remember that, in the context of trade agreements, we will not accept the entry of agricultural products which do not comply with our health, social and environmental standards on the european market. you see who i'm talking about. it is now up to the french authorities to make good decisions on the allocation of aid at national level. the capping of aid to the largest farmers is a first step. i would nevertheless suggest that certain sectors of agriculture which are better off than others should show solidarity and allow the creation of a specific livestock aid by giving up part of the funds which could be theirs under the direct aid per hectare. this aid will support our farmers in the economic and structural crisis they are going through.
the rapporteur. - mr president, 'unity in diversity' is the motto of europe. this is probably the motto we are really putting into practice in this reform of the cap. the fact is that in a europe of 28 countries, the reality of the environment, the sociological perception of the agricultural question, the relationship with food in our different countries are different, and yet we are together in building the future. i think we have built a project-based cap rather than a shop-shop cap. the question now is to build a cap that enables farmers to act and professional organisations to act. the budget to be implemented is 100 euros per capita per year. we all need to remember that. this is a choice made by the european taxpayer, since the consumer does not want to pay for his products at the real price. we can see the excitement caused by the increase of a few cents in the price of bread. at the end of this very long work, i would like to thank the commissioner once again for his attention and for his personal contribution to this reform. i'd also like to thank the team that surrounded me. parliament's work is not finished: we must now be the guarantors of the political agreement. we will be watching the delegated acts, commissioner, but we will also be watching, mr president-in-office, how the states will react to this agreement. we must ensure, in particular, that competition law is applied uniformly in our various countries. we must ensure that the barriers we have sought to re-establish to prevent europe from being a sieve for certain products coming from outside, with production ratios that have nothing to do with those we impose on our producers, are respected.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiation of the free trade agreement with the united states will obviously be an important part of the commission's work programme. as you all know, these are the company choices being negotiated in the field of public services, consumer protection, investor rights, gmos, beef and hormones, personal data protection. but this negotiation is proceeding in complete opacity vis-à-vis the european citizens. mr vice-president, you spoke of democracy and a community of values. how does the attitude of the european commission and the council, which today deny european citizens access to even the negotiating mandate, help to strengthen democracy? this, as you know, reinforces the perception of european citizens that the european union is only serving multinational companies and is at the expense of the interests of the citizens. the greens therefore ask you to conduct a fully transparent negotiation which allows european citizens to know how you negotiate their choice of company.
mr president, this is a point of order, since the vice-president of the commission is speaking and acting on the subject of cooperation between the commission and parliament. i asked him a question about the transparency of the negotiations, to which he did not answer. i would therefore like the exercise we are undertaking here in this plenary to give rise to responses from the commission to the european democratic assembly.
madam president, i have already raised this point in the sitting on monday. i note that the conference of presidents, in violation of at least articles 50, 156 and 163 and, at a minimum, of our rules of procedure, is preventing us from having a vote under democratic conditions. i'm sorry about that. i made a final attempt last night by proposing to the president of the european parliament, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, that an oral amendment be taken up, which would have allowed this house to vote in favour of a european social fund amounting to 25% of cohesion policy. i regret that it was not possible. (applause from the left)
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i would very much like to see negotiations with the council to bring this legislation to fruition during the current term of office. i would therefore ask you to authorize us to refer the text back to committee to open negotiations.
in writing. budget 2014 is the first budget of the new multiannual financial framework. this budget, which is a step back from the previous budget and without any prospects for the future, does not respond in any way to the challenges facing europeans. in line with my vote on the mff, i therefore voted against this draft budget for 2014. what should our european budget be? a stronger budget, refocused on the green economy and job creation. the sine qua non of a european budget worthy of the name is own resources. the european parliament has long advocated this idea, but the member states are reluctant to implement it. the idea that the union could no longer depend on national contributions but have its own resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to find a compromise to bridge the gap between the council's position and the european parliament's amendments on the draft budget for 2014 as proposed by the european commission. the agreement ensured that the victims of the catastrophic floods and drought of 2013 were compensated and that the political priorities for 2014 were taken into account: education, employment, research, innovation, border management and humanitarian aid. the compromise also includes the strengthening of the budget of frontex, the asylum support office and europol.
in writing. i voted in favour of the general budget of the european union for 2014; the commission has also decided to grant a loan of eur 142.6 billion for commitments and eur 135.5 billion for payments. the emphasis is on european harmonization policies: social dialogue, support for the economic and social development of the union's territories and the gradual alignment of national legislation with the acquis communautaire. a substantial part of the budget is also devoted to youth employment. finally, dialogue and international cooperation, particularly with the mediterranean countries, are being strengthened.
in writing. i am satisfied with the agreement reached between parliament and the member states on the 2014 budget. while the budget will be down from 2013, we have secured increased funding for syrian refugee management, immigration control and the frontex agency, whose prerogatives have sometimes been questioned in recent weeks. finally, we have left a reserve in the 2014 european budget for expenditure in case of unforeseen situations next year. this budget will therefore make it possible to achieve concrete results for the europeans.
in writing. on wednesday 20 november, the european parliament confirmed its agreement to reduce the 2014 budget to €135 billion, a reduction of 6.5% compared to 2013. while most countries in the union are taking the necessary measures to clean up and reduce public spending, i am glad that the european union, first, is leading by example. i do not think that an unlimited increase in the budget will make the eu more efficient. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. in 2014, the eu decided to focus on the fight against youth unemployment with an allocation of €3 billion, support for businesses with the cosme programme, support for the poorest who will get additional support of €134 million, but also the strengthening of frontex which will get job creation and €2 million in additional funding.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleagues anne e. jensen and monika hohlmeier. for the first time, negotiations resulted in an increase in payment appropriations: an additional eur 500 million was obtained. the 2014 budget will thus include eur 142.6 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 135.5 billion in payment appropriations. it will be essential that the 2014 budget be subject to a rigorous requirement while targeting the economic and social priorities of the european union. in the end, parliament's negotiations led to the allocation of appropriations for future expenditure, namely research, education, smes, infrastructure and youth employment. the report was adopted by 494 votes in favour, 158 against and 13 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. our session also provided the opportunity to adopt the union's budget for 2014. this is not the budget we have agreed on for growth! realism and pragmatism have prevailed. it is with responsibility, fully aware of the scarcity of the european budgetary resource, that we voted for a reasonable 2014 budget, focused on our priorities: the competitiveness of our economy (research, financing of companies, especially smes) and employment, especially youth employment. we also, contrary to what the council initially advocated, obtained an increase in the budgetary resources of the frontex agency, which is responsible for controlling the union's external borders, and increased the future european fund for aid to the most deprived.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2014 budget, which reflects the european parliament's priorities to support growth and jobs, particularly at the beginning of the budgetary programming period. this agreement comes as we supported the principle of solidarity and the fact that the union should intervene in favour of the victims of major floods and droughts in 2013. balanced budgets are an important element, defended by the european parliament, which is why we had to settle the 2013 expenditure before planning for 2014.
in writing. this new version of the european budget for 2014 does not alter the broad balances of the draft which was rejected by parliament in october. the reversal of the jensen and hohlmeier reports is therefore unacceptable. it is the result of obscure bargaining between martin schulz and angela merkel, covered up by the epp and the pse. none of the problems raised in october have been solved: the budget is still falling by the same amount (a cut of 10 billion, or minus 6%) and is therefore still insufficient to finance the long-term objectives set by the union and to cover the priorities set by the heads of state for youth and employment. the budgetary disorder linked to the accumulation of arrears from previous years will worsen: 52% of the payment appropriations in the 2014 budget will be used to cover commitments from the 2007-2013 period. new payment deficits will therefore be carried over to the 2015 budget. this austerity budget will help to slow down activity when it should be boosting it. it deprives the union of the necessary investments in environmental matters. he tramples on the powers of parliament by ignoring all its demands. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2014 budget which i think is the best compromise we could find. despite the limited amounts granted, parliament has succeeded in directing appropriations towards future expenditure: research, education, smes, infrastructure and youth employment. the negotiations on this budget - as on the 2014-2020 financial framework - show, however, the extreme limit to which the current system has reached. europe, with its 500 million inhabitants and its ever-expanding competences, remains a budgetary dwarf. it still sees its expenditure as dependent on negotiations between the member states and pays the price for many years of bad financial management at national level. the reform of the own resources system must be a first essential step to overcome the present situation.
in writing. first application of the 2014-2020 financial framework, this budget is down by 6% compared to the previous one (eur 135.5 billion in payment appropriations, eur 142.6 billion in commitment appropriations). if the conciliation agreement does not excite my enthusiasm, i have nevertheless decided to support it because, at the request of parliament, a considerable effort has been made on the question of youth employment (with a budget of over eur 3 billion), as well as on that of expenditure related to smes, education and research, for which pre-financing of eur 360 million is provided. in addition, additional appropriations were allocated to the european agencies active in the fields of asylum and immigration, and in the field of banking and financial supervision. finally, meps managed to get €500 million more than the council had asked for in terms of payment, which was by far the most thorny issue. the problem will, however, have to be monitored very closely next year and it is therefore important that the commission, parliament and council commit themselves to presenting an amending budget during the year if necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this parliament resolution to mobilise the flexibility instrument for cyprus. this flexibility instrument allows for the allocation of an additional allocation to the structural funds programmes for cyprus for the financial year 2014.
in writing. i voted for the flexibility instrument to give cyprus an additional allocation from the structural funds so that it can continue to finance programmes.
in writing. cyprus is experiencing an unprecedented situation. to support its rescue, the union had to ensure that its budget was set up accordingly. the text aims to complement the financing of the eu general budget for 2014 by mobilising the flexibility instrument for effective action in support of the cypriots. it shows the need to give the eu budget sufficient flexibility to adapt to the difficulties faced by some countries.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague jean-luc dehaene. after an examination of all possibilities for reallocating payment appropriations and commitment appropriations under the financial framework (heading 1b), it was necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing provided for in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2014 for structural funds programmes for cyprus. the vote on this report will bring the total amount of eur 89.33 million to the table. the report was adopted by 580 votes to 72, with 30 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which provides for an additional allocation to cyprus under the flexibility instrument for structural fund expenditure. this measure was provided for in the cyprus rescue plan.
in writing. this resolution proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument to finance structural fund programmes for cyprus. the aim is to grant the country an additional allocation under these funds for the financial year 2014, for a total amount of eur 100 million. in view of the situation in cyprus, this extension is essential to meet the priorities. i vote for it.
in writing. in order to help romania, which is affected by drought and forest fires, and germany, austria and the czech republic, which were hit by floods last spring, the european union solidarity fund must be mobilised. the budget should now make it possible to mobilize this money through this draft amending budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amending budget to release the eu solidarity fund for romania, the czech republic, austria and germany; these four countries have been particularly affected by major climatic and weather events in recent years. romania, hit by drought and forest fires in the summer of 2012, and germany, austria and the czech republic, hit by floods in may and june 2013.
in writing. i support the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to support countries and regions that have had to face extremely difficult situations caused by forest fires and floods. this requires adjusting the budget for 2013, which is why i voted in favour of this draft amending budget.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague giovanni la via which aims to support the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for disaster compensation in romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. i welcome the very wide adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for romania, which was affected by drought and forest fires in the summer of 2012, and for germany, austria and the czech republic, which were affected by floods in may and june 2013.
in writing. this report endorses the 9th amending budget of the union for 2013. it adds 400 million to the eu solidarity fund. this is to cover exceptional expenditure resulting from the compensation for natural disasters in romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. the systematic extensions affecting the eu solidarity fund show that it is insufficiently funded from the outset. this situation is not likely to improve in 2014 given the overall budget decline. the report also rightly deplores the council's use of force in adopting this amending budget. the union solidarity fund shall have an amount which may be adjusted if necessary beyond the ceilings provided for. the council has now demanded that the necessary extension be financed by a freeze on the rest of the european budget. in violation of the treaties, the council has imposed this solution on parliament. i abstain in order not to prevent the release of these emergency funds but i regret that parliament is once again allowing its prerogatives to be trampled upon.
in writing. the commission estimates the total direct damage caused by the drought and forest fires in romania in summer 2012 at eur 806,7 million and the floods in germany, austria and the czech republic in may-june 2013 at eur 8,2 billion, eur 866,5 million and eur 637,1 million respectively. to provide support for these member states in distress, the commission proposes to mobilise the solidarity fund, which i have agreed to.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for romania, the czech republic, austria and germany. these four countries have been particularly affected by major climatic and meteorological events in recent years. romania was hit by drought and forest fires during the summer of 2012, and germany, austria and the czech republic were hit by floods in may and june 2013. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 400 519 089 in commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. in 2012 and 2013, romania, germany, austria and the czech republic faced extreme weather conditions, which severely affected their populations and economies. i welcome the adoption of this text, which will help the authorities concerned to deal with the consequences of these disasters.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express eu solidarity with the affected regions. the request concerns romania following the drought in the summer of 2012, the damage is estimated at eur 806,7 million and this disaster is to be considered a 'major natural disaster'. the request also concerns germany, austria and the czech republic, which were affected by floods in 2013 and whose damage amounts to eur 8,2 billion for germany, eur 866,5 million for austria and eur 637,1 million for the czech republic. the report proposes to allocate a total of eur 400,5 million to these countries. i vote for it.
in writing. i supported this proposal for a decision to mobilise the flexibility instrument as this is budgetarily necessary to supplement the european social fund funding received by france, italy and spain in 2013.
in writing. solidarity is for all countries and also for france. i voted in favour of mobilising the flexibility instrument to supplement the funding in the 2013 budget for the financing of the esf (european social fund). france, but also italy and spain will benefit.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the böge report raising the financial ceiling of the european social fund for 2013 to a total of eur 150 000 000 for three countries: france, italy and spain. these three member states have had a steady increase in unemployment for the past year. this financial contribution is a necessary aid for jobseekers to improve their skills (training, seminars, etc.) and their employment prospects (personalized aid).
in writing. france, spain and italy are facing a number of difficulties which european solidarity can provide welcome support. the european economic integration is such that we cannot afford to leave these large economies behind. i welcome the adoption of this text, which will make it possible to supplement the european social fund funding to support and accompany them in their efforts to support employment.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague reimer böge. this proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument aims to provide commitment appropriations of eur 134 million to complement the financing of the european social fund in the general budget of the union for 2013, beyond the ceiling of heading 1b. the aim is to increase the appropriations for france, italy and spain for the current financial year. the report was adopted by 585 votes in favour, 73 against and 33 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr böge's report because i am in favour of the activation of the flexibility instrument to supplement the funding provided for in amending budget no 7, for which i am the rapporteur, and which provides for the reinforcement of the european social fund by eur 150 million to be used in italy, france and spain to combat youth unemployment. the flexibility instrument, in this specific case, is used to provide commitment appropriations under heading 1b, which will be used to supplement the european social fund funding.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 7/2013, which allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument with an additional amount of eur 150 million over the european budget for 2013, allocated for clearly identified expenditure. this amount is intended to increase the european social fund appropriations for france, italy and spain to enable these countries to combat youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion following the current economic crisis.
in writing. this report approves the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to provide commitment appropriations of eur 134 049 037 to increase the allocations of the european social fund for france, italy and spain for 2013 by a total of eur 150 000 000. like all other financial funds, the esf is now a lever of the so-called europe 2020 strategy, which is the extension of the lisbon strategy . the commission is advocating, among other things, the flexibilization of the labour market, when it is precisely the question of allocating these sums to the fight against youth unemployment. austerity leads to recession, and it would be better to change the policy orientation than to try to limit its worst consequences. nevertheless, these appropriations are necessary and they demonstrate the absurdity of the budgetary rigidity at work in europe. i vote for it.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation concerns the establishment of the european satellite navigation systems galileo and egnos. i voted in favour of this regulation in order to keep the eu competitive in the field of satellite radio navigation and to enable european citizens to benefit from these technologies.
i voted for the report on european satellite radio navigation systems. the commission is also proposing to set up a european network of satellite radio-navigation centres, which will be operated by the european commission. the report will make it possible, above all, to provide flexibility in the allocation of funds by the commission. this will maximize the economic and social benefits for the industry concerned. secondly, it brings a clarified governance structure and, finally, i voted for this report because it allows the extension of the egnos coverage.
in writing. i voted in favour of the marinescu report for an effective and independent european space policy. the adoption of this report allows the financing of the two european satellite radio navigation programmes, the galileo and egnos programmes, for the period 2014-2020. the amount of this funding allows the full development and exploitation of these programmes.
in writing. with this text, we will redefine the funding and governance framework for two of europe's most emblematic programmes of large industrial projects: galileo and egnos. these two programmes are a future for europe as a whole, as they stimulate european space industry and research. they also bring benefits to europeans on a daily basis: a more efficient satellite navigation system is the basis for a whole range of activities and applications that make their lives easier, create jobs and stimulate innovation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i want to encourage technological advances in global navigation satellite systems (gnss). the galileo and egnos programmes are eu flagship projects and are part of the europe 2020 strategy and sustainable development policies. it is therefore necessary to allocate an appropriate budget to them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marian-jean marinescu which sets out a new funding and governance framework for the european satellite navigation programmes galileo and egnos for the period 2014-2020. it allows for flexibility in the distribution of funds between the different segments of the programme, clarifies the governance structure and maximises economic and social benefits. so i welcome the adoption of her.
in writing. i abstain on this report on european satellite radio navigation systems, which refers to the galileo programme and its financing from the european budget. galileo, a european initiative to give the eu its own global satellite navigation system, provides highly accurate data under civilian control. galileo could be used for military and surveillance purposes; that's why i don't support this satellite navigation system. although it is a priori independent of us control, i am cautious about the possible dual use of this system.
in writing. to ensure the independence and sovereignty of the european union vis-à-vis the united states, it is important that the eu has its own satellite radio navigation system, and the galileo and egnos programmes are moving in the right direction by ensuring better continuity of service. unfortunately, this report does not define democratic control of this programme in a satisfactory way and it even limits its scope. for the project to be fully cohesive, it should not be reduced to a mere technical independence but should be part of a more comprehensive political strategy and a european defence programme detached from nato, a dimension excluded from the report which is limited to a specifically civilian definition of the solution. i therefore abstain in order to denounce this lack of ambition.
in writing. this report supports the proposal for a regulation to establish a governance framework to ensure the success of the european galileo and egnos programmes. the first is a satellite radio navigation system project, while the second will improve galileo's accuracy. the aim is to ensure european independence from the us gps and the russian glonass, while at the same time offering important research prospects. these two factors justified my support for this report.
in writing. i think it cannot be said enough: the success of the european construction is measured by the public recognition it receives. in the industrial field, aeronautics and space are by far the best examples. our constituency is also at the forefront of this, since it is the seat of very large companies. it is therefore essential that europe should take on major industrial projects. space still offers us enormous prospects. it is therefore logical that galileo and egnos should be supported for the next financial period. however, the funding and governance framework for european programmes needed to be revised in order to bring them up to date and make them more operational. but it's done now.
in writing. today, we no longer need to look at a map at every street corner to make sure we are driving in the right direction. driving in unfamiliar terrain is thus made smoother and safer, all thanks to an american invention - gps. however, access to this valuable and indispensable tool is not guaranteed. it is the property of the us department of defense, which can alter its signal at any time for strategic reasons. this strong dependence on the us tool has led the eu to develop its own satellite navigation system, galileo. while espionage practices have reignited tensions between the eu and the us, this policy of independence is taking on a special significance. in total, galileo will have 30 satellites, which, combined with the european ground stations (egnos), will provide much better geolocation than the american gps. the first tests of the european system reveal a quality of satellite radio navigation beyond expectations, so it is with great conviction, and not without a sense of pride, that i voted for the galileo commissioning budget.
in writing. the eu-jordan relations are part of the european neighbourhood policy and the eu-jordan euro-mediterranean association agreement. the arab spring and the influx of syrian refugees into jordanian territory have had a serious impact on the jordanian economy, and i believe that solidarity should be shown and i support this decision to grant macrofinancial assistance to jordan.
in writing. i voted in favour of macro-financial assistance to jordan. eu macro-financial assistance is an exceptional crisis response instrument that the eu makes available to neighbourhood countries, and is conditional on compliance with an economic programme supported by the imf. the decision provides for macro-financial assistance to jordan in the form of loans for a maximum total amount of eur 180 million over a maximum period of 15 years. the eu will therefore only lend the amount that will be repaid.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague vital moreira. this report concerns the commission's proposal to grant macro-financial assistance of eur 180 million to jordan. in view of the situation in jordan, the macro-financial assistance should be disbursed swiftly. this assistance will demonstrate the european union's political and financial support for the transitions taking place in the arab spring countries. it should also be recalled that jordan has been facing massive arrivals of refugees from the syrian conflict for the past two years. more than 550,000 refugees have been registered so far. the country is facing a critical budgetary situation. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. the report was adopted by 626 votes in favour, 50 against and 13 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the european union is considering providing jordan with macro-financial assistance (mfa) of eur 180 million in the form of a medium-term loan. this aid is intended to contribute to the economic stabilisation and reforms of the country. however, the granting of this mfa is always complementary to the imf programme programme, with a conditionality. in 2012, the jordanian government decided to introduce a 6% fuel tax and remove octane subsidies, as requested by the imf. many protests have taken place, as these subsidies are vital for the workers and the poor. in 2013 new measures are planned, such as the increase in the price of diesel and kerosene, which will again affect the workers and the popular strata. i therefore vote against this conditional aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of eu aid to jordan of €180 million to support the transition of one of the arab spring countries. jordan is facing particular difficulties in the context of the syrian conflict, as it is hosting a massive influx of refugees. this assistance is part of the broader context of the eu's engagement in the context of the syrian conflict.
in writing. the resolution proposes macrofinancial assistance to jordan in the form of a loan of up to eur 180 million (at 9%, repayable over 15 years). this loan is obviously conditional. the text thus evokes the respect for democratic mechanisms or the importance of the fight against women's unemployment, but without asserting itself in the face of the authoritarian monarchy in place. on the other hand, respect for the liberal doxa is widely recalled. the aim of the macrofinancial assistance (mfa) is to force the country to comply with the adjustment and reform programmes agreed with the imf. under the control of the commission and the imf, which ensure that 'structural reforms' are respected. this european loan will increase the country's debt, at a time when it would be necessary to mobilize to cancel it at least in part. since 2007, when the amf was set up, the eu has acted as the imf's watchdog in its neighbourhood. the union for the mediterranean project is no longer limited to the creation of a large free trade area with free and undistorted competition. i vote against it.
in writing. macro-financial assistance is an exceptional crisis response instrument that the eu makes available to neighbouring countries. it is subject to compliance with an economic programme receiving financial support from the imf. the regulation will allow the eu to grant temporary financial assistance to jordan to cope with the influx of syrian refugees on its territory. as the fictitious rapporteur for this text for my group, i was able to attend the final negotiations with the european commission and the council. the consensus was reached very quickly, both between the political groups present and between the institutions: jordan has sufficient guarantees and, above all, this one-off aid meets a real need.
in writing. as part of my commitment to combating drugs in all their forms, i supported this draft decision which aims to conclude an agreement between the eu and the russian federation to improve the monitoring of the trade in drug precursors, which are free but regulated products and are used in the manufacture of many drugs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eu-russia agreement on drug precursors. the eu is also considering the possibility of extending the scope of the eu's cooperation with russia to include the eu's neighbours in the region. russia and its vast territory are fairly easily crossed by drugs from certain middle eastern countries. the most famous trafficking is opium from afghanistan, which later feeds all other trafficking in europe, whether it is the mafia, organized crime, trafficking in women, arms trade, etc.
in writing. i voted for the proust report ratifying the agreement signed on 4 june 2013 between the european union and russia on the monitoring of trade in drug precursors. the control of trade in chemicals which can be used for the manufacture of narcotic drugs must be strengthened. the report thus lays a solid foundation for mutual assistance between russia and the union so that drug precursors are not diverted from the legal trade. the emphasis is therefore on the need for scientific and technical cooperation and the exchange of data between the two parties.
in writing. i welcome this agreement, which aims to strengthen the surveillance of drug precursors in the framework of trade cooperation between the eu and russia. these legal substances, which are sometimes converted into synthetic drugs, must be subject to increased surveillance in the framework of our partnership with russia. this is an important step towards closer relations with russia and should be welcomed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of closer cooperation with russia on the monitoring of the trade in drug precursors. these legal substances can be dangerous because they can be used in the chemical process of manufacturing synthetic drugs, including heroin. in order to protect our citizens from drug trafficking, i therefore support increased surveillance, including pre-export notification by the exporting country, followed by a three-week period during which the importing country may oppose the entry of this product into its territory for security reasons.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague, mr franck proust, to ratify an agreement between the eu and russia signed on 4 june to monitor products used in the manufacture of drugs. the agreement, which has already been concluded with 10 other countries, will make it possible to combat drug trafficking more effectively. i am therefore pleased that this recommendation has been adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-russia agreement to combat the diversion of chemicals that can be used as precursors in the manufacture of drugs. the agreement with russia provides for increased monitoring of trade in these products and an exchange of information between the parties.
in writing. this proposal for an agreement between the european union and the russian federation aims to improve cooperation in the surveillance of trade in drug precursors. these precursors are legal substances that can be used in the chemical process of manufacturing synthetic drugs. for example, acetic acid is used in the manufacture of heroin. the russian federation is one of the main producers of precursors used in the production of drugs. it is therefore important to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the russian federation. however, the report stresses the need to avoid any 'protectionism' and not to impede the free movement of these products. the mutual assistance mechanism envisaged takes the form of an exchange of data, some of which are confidential, which leads to a reservation on this agreement. the commission notes that the russian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. i'm not going to.
in writing. the report focuses on the eu-russia agreement to improve cooperation between the two countries in the surveillance of drug precursor trade. precursors are legal chemicals that are highly sought after by traffickers who divert them from the market to make synthetic drugs (amphetamines, heroin, etc.). i therefore decided to vote in favour of this eu-russia agreement because it would make it possible to monitor the trade in drug precursors more closely and thus reduce the possibilities for the manufacture of synthetic drugs.
in writing. it is for the council to determine which third states and organisations europol shall conclude agreements with. however, given that the commission has recently made a proposal for a new regulation on europol, i voted in favour of parliament's legislative resolution asking the council not to adopt this decision and the europol management board not to enter into negotiations with the states covered by this decision until stricter security guarantees, contained in the new commission proposal, are adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution to reject the draft council decision on the list of third states and organisations with which europol has agreements. we believe that this decision should be adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure (and therefore the european parliament should not only be consulted). moreover, the text as it stands does not sufficiently protect fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted against this text: yes, europol's mission is crucial and the list of states and organisations with which europol concludes agreements should be adapted. but europol is currently undergoing a reform, the text of which is being studied. there is no point in promoting doubt and instability by voting on a text that could be changed in a few months. this would only increase the lack of understanding and mistrust of the european institutions. i also support the emphasis in this text on the need to strengthen data protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it may be beneficial for europol services to extend the list of countries with which it can conclude agreements to brazil, the united arab emirates, georgia and mexico. nevertheless, i support the rapporteur's concerns about the level of data protection in these states, which should lead us to be vigilant in concluding potential agreements.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague philip claeys. europol's management board decided to recommend to the council that brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates be added to the list of third states and organisations with which europol has agreements. the report proposes to reject the council's proposal as parliament is currently discussing a new europol regulation which could change the provisions governing the conclusion of agreements with third states and organisations, as well as the procedure for doing so. the report was adopted by 679 votes in favour, 11 against and 4 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision proposing that the council reject a cooperation agreement between europol and four third countries. the legal basis for europol is currently being examined by the european institutions. the commission will amend the conditions attached to international agreements. it is more appropriate to wait for the adoption of the new legal basis of europol to take this decision.
in writing. this report opposes the draft council decision on additions to the list of states and third countries with which europol has agreements. the countries are brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. in the case of eu police cooperation with third countries via europol, it is necessary to ensure that the countries with which the eu concludes agreements offer all the guarantees of respect for freedoms. this is not the case in georgia or the united arab emirates. the recent scandal of the giant nsa spying on european governments and institutions should lead to a strengthening of the precautionary principle in the protection of personal data, both within the eu itself and in relations between the eu and third parties. that is why i am voting for it.
in writing. in december 2012, the council made a legislative proposal to add four third states (brazil, mexico, georgia and the united arab emirates) to the list of countries with which europol may negotiate and conclude cooperation agreements. the council has competence under the european decision on the establishment and operation of europol, but the treaty of lisbon has entered into force and requires the european parliament to give its consent to any international agreement of the eu. i therefore voted in favour of rejecting the council's request. i do not support this council proposal because the least that can be said is that these four states do not provide all the guarantees in the field of human rights. moreover, it seems to me surprising to put the negotiation of agreements in such a sensitive area in the hands of an agency. international police cooperation is necessary but too important to be left to the european police cooperation agency alone, and this in a political context of increasing security and repression.
in writing. the community legal framework for a consortium for a european research infrastructure needs to be amended, so i have voted in favour of this parliament's legislative resolution which approves the commission's proposal on this subject.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will make it possible to establish at eu level a new legal instrument allowing the creation of european research infrastructures with legal personality and recognised in all member states.
in writing. this text will open the consortium for a european research infrastructure to new partners: it will therefore be a crucial instrument towards a dynamic and innovative research europe, and i therefore welcome its adoption.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft to encourage the opening up of this regulation to europe's neighbours. it is worth noting that countries such as norway, which is a member of efta, already participate in many agreements and programmes with the eu. it therefore seemed to me logical to open the eric regulation to our european partners in order to increase the sharing of competences.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague amalia sartori. this report concerns the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 723/2009 on a community legal framework for a european research infrastructure consortium (eric). the report was adopted by 658 votes in favour, 17 against and 10 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the community legal framework for a consortium for a european research infrastructure. the technical amendments proposed by the european commission should allow for better account to be taken, through their voting rights, of the involvement of third countries or associated countries in erics.
in writing. currently, half of total research expenditure is in 30 of 254 regions and a majority of the projects listed by the eu under this framework are concentrated in only 10 member states. this amendment to the regulation may therefore allow other countries in europe, outside the european union, to join these european research infrastructure consortia (erics) and vote on an equal footing with the member states. in terms of scientific output, europe remains the world's largest centre for r & d after the united states; the european union has a strong interest in working towards greater sharing of grey matter across the continent. however, erics are linked to horizon 2020, which focuses on a short-term vision of research and aims to bring new economic products to the market. for that reason, i abstain.
in writing. this regulation lays down the rules applicable to 5 european funds which are of great importance to europeans: the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. having contributed to the preparation of this report myself, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i welcome the modernisation, the slight greening of the rules applicable to these funds and the creation of the category of regions in transition (financial benefit to 10 french regions, including auvergne and limousin). i therefore voted in favour of this report. however, i would have liked the simplification of the rules to go much further, for example through genuine trust contracts to reduce controls. in addition, it would have been desirable to provide for the money for the european social fund (esf) to represent at least 25% of eu cohesion policy. in france, this share is traditionally much higher and this is a good thing because it is important to invest in training and developing the skills of workers.
in writing. cohesion policy is an essential element of social and territorial cohesion. the structural funds are a genuine redistributive instrument, and it is through them that citizens benefit from the eu in a concrete way. however, i voted against the outcome of the negotiations on the 2014-2020 cohesion package for one main reason: because the 25% originally provided for the european social fund is not in the final text. in these times of crisis, the european social fund, which has a vital role to play, should be strengthened. the social emergency in europe would require greater commitment to strengthening social inclusion, vocational integration and the fight against poverty. i therefore deeply regret this bad signal to the european citizens.
in writing. i voted against the compromise which takes up the whole of the agreement reached in the trilogue (amendment 488) so that i can then vote in favour of the amendments which raise the minimum share of the european social fund to 25% (amendments 468 and 469). unfortunately, the compromise has been approved. the esf has already had to provide the funding not originally planned for: - the youth employment initiative (yei) with eur 3 billion and - the eafrd with eur 3.5 billion, a total of eur 6.5 billion from the initial esf budget. the battle for the minimum 25% share of cohesion policy funds was therefore more topical than ever to fill the budget gap needed to support employment policies within the european union. the european social fund has been an effective policy for re-employment since the treaties of rome. since 2008, the crisis has reinforced its need. the esf is jobs for all!
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement reached by parliament and the council on the common regulation on cohesion policy. the adoption of the new cohesion policy is a strong signal for growth in europe. the structural funds will represent 325 billion euros of investment in our territories over the period 2014-2020. the creation of the category of 'regions in transition' is in line with the principle of greater fairness in the distribution of aid. this category offers appropriate support to regions that are neither too rich nor too poor. the new cohesion policy will also be better targeted through thematic concentration and conditionality. we must move from a shop-shop approach to a project approach, with a focus on investments that create jobs and growth. as regards the european social fund, however, i would have preferred that its budget should be at least 25% because employment must be the union's priority.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of these common provisions governing cohesion policy instruments. they are key tools in supporting the cohesion and competitiveness of our territories, in their diversity. upgrading them will increase their efficiency and ensure that they have the best possible impact.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is important to adopt an effective framework for the european union's cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. the various european funds contain common provisions which need to be highlighted in order to achieve a coherent and clear policy. simplification is the key. i am therefore in favour of a common strategic framework (csf) defining the means of addressing the main territorial challenges, as well as the means of ensuring coordination with other relevant cooperation policies and activities of the union. in this way, european funds can then be used appropriately to benefit our fellow citizens more effectively. moreover, by concentrating these funds on a limited number of common objectives, while leaving some room for manoeuvre, the regions will be better able to meet their specific needs.
in writing. i did not vote for any of the reports on european funds to finance the european union's regional policy. the new regional policy is supposed to be more efficient and rational than the previous one. sometimes there are even good things. but it is still basically a policy of profiteering and patronage, aimed at creating political and financial links of dependence between the brussels bureaucracy and subnational entities, while concealing the states. it has another defect: it aims to implement the eu 2020 strategy which consists, among other things, and not only, in 'flexibilising' the labour market, thus making workers more precarious, and finally handing over to competition what remains of public services. finally, it has a perverse effect: its compulsory co-financing is an incentive to public spending, as the reports on the countries in difficulty - greece, spain, etc. - half-heartedly admit. the choice of programmes financed is more often based on their ability to benefit from european funding than on their actual economic and social utility. in short, it is a costly mechanism for european propaganda.
in writing. i abstained on this report. the advances are notorious and the greens have had many victories. the regional funds for 2014-2020 will make it possible to invest massively in the energy transition, against exclusion and poverty. however, these gains are being undermined by a drastic 8% cut in the budget for regional policy, which is a way out of the crisis and an investment in the future. another shadow in the picture is the rule of macro-conditionality, which will make this policy a sanctioning tool to enforce the sacred and holy fiscal stability pact. by making public deficits a condition for the disbursement of funds, this macroeconomic clause holds the regions hostage, even though they are not responsible for the economic governance of their state.
in writing. i supported this report, but voted against the amendment which provides for allocating to the european social fund (esf) only a minimum of 21.3% of the cohesion policy funds, whereas i had voted for a minimum of 25%. i very much regret the lack of ambition in the text adopted in the face of the scale of the challenges to be faced, and i deplore the fact that the french government has not been able to defend the 25% objective during the interinstitutional negotiations. the european social fund is one of the european union's main instruments for citizens. it is intended to combat unemployment and precariousness and is aimed in particular at young people, whose unemployment rate in some eu countries is over 50%! it also contributes to the european food aid fund, which helps millions of europeans who are food insecure. in the midst of the economic crisis, strong and effective support must be provided to the most vulnerable of our fellow citizens. to combat the unemployment problem, europe could have done better than a discount agreement!
in writing. after more than two years of negotiations, the european parliament has finally adopted the cohesion policy regulations with a budget of €325 billion for the next seven years. france will receive €14.3 billion, a figure that remains stable compared with the previous period. i am glad that the creation of transition regions, a proposal which i supported in the committee on regional development, has been approved because it will enable ten of our french regions, including auvergne, to benefit from more european aid. of course, they would have every interest in being among the best performing regions in europe, but this depends above all on the strategic and public policy choices of our regional councils. however, the late adoption of these regulations raises concerns that the implementation of the operational programmes will take place in the middle of 2014, which will cause regrettable delays. i therefore expect the regional councils to be responsible for managing european aid for transparency in the management of funds and especially in the selection of projects.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues lambert van nistelrooij and constanze angela krehl, which sets out the framework for a new regional policy, based on objectives and priorities, while allowing for some flexibility in the use of funds. one of the main new features is the introduction of macroeconomic conditionality, which can lead, as a last resort, to a partial suspension of payments in the event of persistent non-compliance with the principles of sound public expenditure management. i welcome the adoption of this report by a large majority of 479 votes in favour, 126 against and 85 abstentions.
in writing. the italian delegation voted against the legislative package which refused to put to the vote some important amendments related to macroeconomic conditionality. we cannot accept a block on the spending of the structural funds for all those economies, many of the italian regions, which have to submit to the rigidity of the stability pact. the introduction of the amendments we requested was in the direction of greater flexibility which could allow the exclusion of investment-related expenditure from the calculation of the deficit/gdp ratio. it would have been significant and consistent with the announcements made in the past about less short-sighted austerity to ensure that this did not happen, among other things, by a forcing by the presidency at the time of the indication of the voting procedure.
in writing. i voted against the report by van nistelrooij (epp, netherlands) and krehl (s&d, germany) on the provisioning of the european funds. this report was presented with the cohesion policy package. it is in particular within this envelope that the eu's social actions are financed. this is one of the areas which has suffered the most cuts in the new budgetary framework. the transfer of solidarity funds to competitiveness programmes was a priority of the european right with the idea of using these funds as incentives to the commission's economic objectives. the report on the provisions for the european funds incorporates several new tools into cohesion policy: macroeconomic conditionality, including a coercive component that may lead to the suspension of commitments and payments; the 'performance reserve' which conditions 6% of funds to results and performance. the minimum threshold for the european social fund is set at 23.1%, whereas even the commission wanted it to be close to 25%. i therefore spoke out against this coercive aspect of conditionality and this instrumentalisation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the common provisions for the european funds, which provide for better synergy between the funds, but also with other funds such as horizon 2020, life, etc. implementation rules have also been simplified and management, control and evaluation systems have been strengthened.
in writing. my comrades in the gue fought hard to get the references to the european stability mechanism (esm) removed from the text. they got it and i consider that a great thing. however, in my view, this is not enough to turn a bad text into a good text. the regulation extends macroeconomic and financial conditionality to all european funds: in other words, it will allow the commission to suspend payments to a state in the event of non-compliance with the enhanced austerity standards of the stability pact. i also disapprove of the use of gdp/capita as an indicator of development, the multiple references to public-private partnerships, the use of financial instruments which will serve as new income for the private sector and the veto power of the commission at every stage of the implementation of the funds, the willingness to push for the movement of workers without having first worked for the harmonization of wages from above ... all of this is a lot. it's too much. i am voting against this text.
in writing. like most meps, i share the concerns raised by the maintenance of macroeconomic conditionality which, although weakened by the european parliament in interinstitutional negotiations, will unfairly weigh on the regions. however, we were able to make many improvements during the negotiations, in particular by taking account of the specific features of the ors, whose cofinancing rate is maintained at 85%. all the regions expect to be able to commit these funds for their projects as from 1 january 2014, and in this context, the spirit of responsibility must prevail. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report, while remaining aware of the work ahead of us to consolidate regional policy beyond 2020.
in writing. the structural funds are at the heart of european integration. it is through these achievements that citizens are able to take stock of the european reality, which is sometimes perceived as too distant. it is therefore essential to maintain ambition and a substantial budget. i am pleased to have supported the creation of this new category of regions, called 'intermediate' or 'in transition', since the beginning of my mandate, which is an unprecedented step forward. it will benefit my region of languedoc-roussillon in particular, with a focus on a few major structural themes. i would like to reiterate, however, that the structural funds must not be used for political purposes, but for the benefit of the territories and the initiatives that are beneficial to them.
in writing. i supported the conditions of this new programming period for the european funds because they are favourable to the french regions. thanks to our efforts, picardy and nord-pas-de-calais will be able to continue to benefit from it. as they now belong to the category of regions in transition, they will be able to receive up to 60% of the co-financing of their projects from european funds. the new provisions make it possible to better control the final use of these funds, based on concrete results.
in writing. despite serious shortcomings, i voted in favour of the new regulation on cohesion policy. two points in particular are in dispute. firstly, macro-conditionality, which imposes a double penalty on member states in difficulty by suspending financing to a member state in a state of public deficit, in relation to the european commission's criteria. the regions would therefore no longer receive aid. the second concern is for the european social fund, which now offers a wide range of financing to promote the integration of young people and low-skilled workers, as well as support for enterprises in the face of change. this need for employment, particularly for young people, was shared but is growing. the threshold chosen is 23.1% of the cohesion policy budget, whereas the socialists asked for 25%. so we have to deal with a shrinking budget while the demand is rising. despite these shortcomings, the regions need these funds to be released as soon as possible, and a rejection would have delayed adoption beyond 2014, which would have put them in difficulty.
in writing. this vote brings a major innovation for cohesion policy, with a regulation establishing a common strategic framework for cohesion policy funds, the eu's second budgetary envelope and a vehicle for growth and economic, social and territorial cohesion. the concentration of these funds on eleven thematic objectives put an end to the drift of cofinancing, which jeopardized their effectiveness and the impact on the territories. i also welcome the creation of a youth employment initiative, which is being promoted by my political family. i do have two regrets, though. the first concerns the refusal by a majority of my colleagues to allocate 25% of the €313 billion allocated to the european social fund, which is intended for employment and social inclusion. lowering this share to 23.1% would cut this major crisis-time leverage of almost €3 billion. the second concerns the delegation of the management of the funds by the regional councils, which raises the concern that the socialist regions will use them as variables for adjusting their budgets. i call on the commission to monitor these funds closely to ensure that they are not diverted from their intended purpose.
in writing. the various european cohesion funds set themselves very ambitious objectives; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the desire to control expenditure more effectively will remain unfulfilled. according to the european court of auditors, regional development is the european policy with the most "errors". worse still, the principle of macroeconomic conditionality conceals an unacceptable principle: that of subjecting european aid to the good will of the european commission and to the application by the member state of economic policies dictated by brussels. how could the states, including france, accept such a principle?
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the investment priorities for the thematic objectives and lays down the specific provisions for operational programmes co-financed by the european social fund, as well as the eligible expenditure. strong support should be given to the overall minimum share of the esf of 25% of the structural and cohesion funds budget to help anticipate new skills needs and thus significantly reduce unemployment.
in writing. as part of the 'cohesion package', the european social fund is the union's flagship instrument for strengthening social and occupational inclusion in the territories. i regret that we have not succeeded in imposing that 25% of the total budget allocated to cohesion policy be concentrated on the european social fund, but i support mrs morin-chartier's report. as a result of negotiations with the council, the esf will be concentrated for the next seven years on projects to improve integration, retraining and vocational adaptation. 20% of the budget will be devoted to promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. in a time of social emergency, when the social situation has deteriorated considerably in many european countries, the agreement on the european social fund is welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier because the esf is an essential element of cohesion policy. it is the first european tool for social integration through occupational integration, an indispensable lever in times of crisis to serve jobseekers and employees. our fight for a minimum 25% of the cohesion policy funds to be reserved for it is therefore legitimate if we look at france's needs to revive the return to employment.
in writing. the european social fund is the main financial instrument available to the european union to strengthen social and occupational inclusion in our territories. after a difficult battle, the european parliament finally got 23.1% of the 2014-2020 budget to be used to fight poverty through employment. at the same time, 3 billion will be invested in the fight against youth unemployment. this is certainly a step forward for all those who can benefit from the scheme. however, these funds are still insufficient and what young europeans are looking for first and foremost are real prospects for the future and jobs. this is the objective to which the eu will have to contribute tomorrow.
in writing. the european social fund is a key instrument for promoting employment and social inclusion across the union and it is essential to enable it to adapt to changing conditions in the labour market and societies in europe, particularly in a context of crisis. the new text will give the commission the task of assisting the member states in their fight against unemployment and in their efforts to achieve renewed growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text in order to help the people of europe to adapt effectively to changes in the labour market. at a time when 21% of the young population in the european union is unemployed, parliament must, through this proposal, provide concrete solutions. in addition, the midi-pyrénées region is not exempt from factory closures. for example, the alcaltel lucent plant, which employs nearly 100 people in colomiers, announced the closure of its site for 2014 in october 2013. similarly, in august 2012, it was the site of freescale, which then employed nearly 900 people in toulouse, that was closed. these examples illustrate the need for european policies to combat the damage of the economic crisis, even in midi-pyrénées.
in writing. i voted for this report because it contains some very important advances. less spread out, funds will be easier to use and more focused on concrete results. the reform will also be more environmentally friendly. as it stands, and for the period 2014-2020, the esf will now be used, in addition to integration through employment, to combat poverty and youth unemployment, two scourges that are exploding today with the crisis. cohesion policy will also be more equitable through the creation of a category of 'transition regions', for those that are 'neither too rich nor too poor', with amounts and rules better adapted to their needs.
in writing. i fully supported the adoption of this report on the european social fund (esf), the main instrument at european level for combating unemployment and precariousness, especially among young people. 23.5% is the alarming figure for youth unemployment in europe. they will be the first target group of this new esf, with a main measure - the 'youth guarantee' - which is intended to enable all young people under 25 in very precarious situations to find a job, a training course, a traineeship or an apprenticeship. the 6 billion in the 'youth guarantee' is, however, a mere drop in the bucket compared with the esf's basic policy, which will now focus not only on integrating the unemployed into the labour market but also on keeping them in employment. 20% of esf funds will be directed towards the fight against poverty, while 80% will be directed towards vocational integration measures, which will primarily target not only young people but also women, prisoners in rehabilitation and the elderly. it is now up to the member states to take up this tool and make it available to their citizens.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier which sets out investment priorities and specific provisions for operational programmes co-financed by the esf, as well as eligible expenditure. a proposal for the youth employment initiative has also been integrated, which will allow regions with high youth unemployment to benefit from specific funds. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on the european social fund, which provides in particular for support for vocational integration and employment. in particular, special provisions have been created to support youth employment. the projects financed by the esf in our regions provide practical support for the most vulnerable people. these are very useful and necessary actions.
in writing. the parliament's report clearly improves the commission's text on the european social fund (esf) for 2014-2020. several important references are added, including those concerning public services, health and safety at work, vocational training, the social and solidarity economy and cooperatives. the objectives of the fund remain unchanged: it is to adapt workers to the labour market and the needs of enterprises. the allocation of funds is in line with the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, which restates the 'golden rule' of balanced public finances for all countries and promotes structural reforms to make the labour market more flexible. instead, we must get out of austerity and revive activity through ecological planning. otherwise, the fall in unemployment is a pipe dream. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the european social fund is the main european instrument for supporting employment and promoting economic and social cohesion. to address the challenges facing the union in these areas, this report sets four main objectives, namely 'promoting employment and professional mobility', 'investing in education, skills and lifelong learning', 'promoting social inclusion and combating poverty' and 'building institutional capacity and creating an effective public administration'. the choice to give priority to these different areas will thus make it possible to promote social and occupational integration in a real way, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. the european social fund is a key instrument for integration or reintegration into the labour market and for the training of employees. it's been proven useful for a long time. i'm proud of his adoption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european social fund, which aims to help european citizens effectively adapt to changes in the labour market by co-financing training projects and employment assistance programmes. 20% of this new fund will be devoted to the fight against poverty through employment in each member state and at least €3 billion, starting in 2014, will be dedicated to the fight against youth unemployment. i supported the important progress made in this report, because employment remains at the heart of the concerns of european citizens. in these times of crisis, the european union must show solidarity by adopting a strong and targeted social policy, in particular by promoting policies for vocational integration.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it modernises and improves the rules applicable to the use of the european regional development fund (erdf). over the period 2014-2020, priority erdf investments will have to focus on four particularly key thematic objectives: research and innovation (objective 1), access to information and communication technologies (objective 2), competitiveness of smes (objective 3), and energy efficiency and the shift towards a low-carbon economy (objective 4). thanks to the creation of the category of transition regions, for which i fought and which will be particularly beneficial to the auvergne and limousin regions, erdf assistance to france should remain stable compared to the previous period. i regret, however, that sport, which has been a new supporting competence of the european union since the treaty of lisbon, is not taken into account in this regulation, despite my active efforts to do so. in the end, thousands of concrete projects that are useful to citizens will be able to be implemented thanks to this european fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because from now on the erdf with the sole objective 'investment for growth and jobs' will be composed of three categories of regions instead of two. the main innovation is therefore the creation of a new category of 'transition regions' which will benefit from a specific €31 billion prize fund. some 50 regions would be eligible at european level, france being particularly concerned by these territories at risk of economic decline and falling growth, as ten regions would be concerned, including picardy. the current situation tended to discriminate between european territories: some regions, whose gdp recently exceeded 75%, continue to receive a significant amount of structural funds. the french regions, whose gdp has always been around 85%, are still considered rich regions and are therefore much less assisted. the project does not entail any additional expenditure, since it is based on a redeployment of aid previously allocated to less-favoured regions whose economic situation has improved.
in writing. the european regional development fund is a major tool to support the efforts of our territories to promote growth and employment, and i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which will make it possible to increase the effectiveness of its action. europeans will be the first to benefit from a more coherent and better targeted regional development policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the european regional development fund, which is part of the investment for growth and jobs goal, should remain an integral part of cohesion policy. i am in favour of extending the scope of support to productive investment, regardless of the size of the company, and of investments in small infrastructure for cultural and sustainable tourism. i also agree that the list of investment priorities should include support for the capacity of smes to participate in growth in regional, national and international markets and in innovation processes. these measures should thus help to stimulate growth, employment and innovation in our regions.
in writing. i voted for this report because it contains some very important advances. less spread out, funds will be easier to use and more focused on concrete results. the reform will also be more environmentally friendly. as it stands, and for the period 2014 - 2020, the erdf will enable european territories to invest massively in the energy transition. it will also turn its back on large, unnecessary infrastructure projects. cohesion policy will also be more equitable through the creation of a category of regions in transition for those that are neither too rich nor too poor, with amounts and rules better adapted to their needs.
in writing. the european parliament has easily approved the new erdf regulation which will enable french regions to finance projects in areas as diverse as enterprise competitiveness, information and communication technologies, research, sustainable tourism, culture, energy efficiency, etc. the erdf, which will now be managed by the regional councils, will be able to provide up to €8 billion for france. the aim of the reform of cohesion policy was to simplify this aid system, whose complex structure unfortunately discourages project promoters. i therefore expect the regions, which will now have full control over this aid, to advise and fully support the project promoters in their efforts so that all projects which contribute to local development and the visibility of our regions are not abandoned for lack of information and support. i also want the projects which have received european support to be publicly known, because the most concrete expression of a europe close to the citizens is in this aid.
in writing. i supported this report. the commission has proposed a new regulation on the european regional development fund (erdf) as an integral part of the legal framework of cohesion policy for the multiannual programming period 2014-2020. the scope of erdf support will thus be extended to productive investment, research and innovation infrastructure, small cultural and sustainable tourism infrastructure and networking. certain investments must also become a priority, including projects related to green growth, eco-innovation, urban regeneration and social inclusion. the report was adopted by 605 votes in favour, 34 against and 54 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which sets out the european priorities for projects that can receive european support from the erdf. they mainly cover energy efficiency and renewable energy, research and innovation, support for smes and productive investments. the positive intervention of the eu through this is a real lever to boost our local economies.
in writing. the erdf was set up in 1975 to reduce the gap between the levels of development of the eu's regions. the regional development fund is now mainly used to develop the competitiveness of the regions. direct aid for investment in enterprises (in particular smes), infrastructure linked in particular to research and innovation, telecommunications, the environment, energy and transport, and financial instruments for local development are all measures eligible for funding from this fund. the possibility of subsidising large companies in a few specific cases (research, ict and co2 reduction) is added, when the use of force of law would be sufficient to make progress. parliament's text does not go far enough. i vote against it.
in writing. it is essential that the erdf should be used primarily to finance investments for the future. what i am saying is that europe should no longer be the subsidiary package that completes a project, but should be at the heart of a regional support strategy. innovation and smes are all levers that the erdf must give absolute priority to.
in writing. − the european regional development fund (erdf) is one of the main investment instruments to promote growth and employment. in latvia, the erdf has provided substantial support for the establishment of a business environment and the strengthening of competitiveness (especially of small and medium-sized enterprises), the construction or reconstruction of transport, telecommunications and energy networks, environmental protection, preservation of cultural heritage, etc. posters with information on one or other of the projects co-financed by the erdf have been placed in almost every settlement. the total amount of erdf resources from 2007 to 2013 was eur 2,4 billion. the ep report, which i voted in favour of, will ensure that the erdf funds continue to be directed to the areas where they are most needed in the next programming period (2014-2020). the erdf will be concentrated in four areas: innovation and research, the digitisation programme, support for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the development of a greener economy. particular emphasis will be placed on sustainable urban development (at least 5%). thanks to the european parliament, funds will also be allocated to the development of tourism and the preservation of cultural heritage. parliament also lifted the ban on investments in infrastructure providing basic services in the fields of environment, transport and ict. the number of areas is smaller than before, but the projects implemented will create a tangible 'bridge' between job creation and economic growth. in a period of declining financial resources, thematic concentration will help to avoid fragmentation or duplication of aid.
in writing. i abstained on this report, which endorses the financing of the erdf for the next 7 years under the mff (multiannual financial framework). the erdf (european regional development fund) is, along with the esf, one of the eu's main financial instruments. it aims to strengthen economic and social cohesion within the european union by correcting regional imbalances. it finances projects that improve the attractiveness of the territory by improving its accessibility or by stimulating research and development expenditure in smes, for example. for the next seven years, erdf resources should be concentrated on a more limited number of objectives (focusing in particular on the sustainability of projects). the regions, which in france will now manage these programmes directly, are often the main beneficiaries of this programme. however, the principle of 'macro-conditionality', even if limited and framed by the european parliament's proposals, constitutes a constraint which is difficult to accept. behind this technocratic vocabulary is the desire to link cohesion and solidarity policies towards the regions to the budgetary austerity imposed on the states, by suspending the structural funds when the regions do not comply with european rules on deficit and expenditure reduction.
in writing. our parliament has just voted for a more modern and efficient version of one of the eu's flagship policies: the european regional development fund. for all french local authorities, it is the european instrument par excellence for co-financing development projects that are structuring at local level. the new erdf, which will be a lever for growth, competitiveness and employment and a vehicle for economic, social and territorial cohesion, will correct one of the current deviations: the 'sprinkling' of resources. by concentrating co-financing on a limited number of policy areas, the erdf is being replaced in its primary role as a facilitator of projects for economic development, social inclusion, environmental protection and the energy and digital transition. i am particularly pleased that my desire to make a significant contribution to tourism has been taken up and confirmed. we all know the direct and indirect benefits and impacts of tourism on local economies and on the image and attractiveness of our territories. finally, the emphasis on the urban dimension calls for an ambitious policy to improve the interconnection between the major economic areas, to ensure service to all neighbourhoods and to instill sustainability in urban renewal.
in writing. since nearly 196 million european citizens, or 40% of the population of the european union, live in border regions, territorial cooperation is a very useful tool both for deepening european integration and for combating the crisis. over the period 2014-2020, european territorial cooperation funding will still be divided into three axes (cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation) but will now be concentrated on the four main themes of the european regional development fund (erdf): research and innovation (objective 1), access to information and communication technologies (objective 2), competitiveness of smes (objective 3), and energy efficiency and the shift towards a low-carbon economy (objective 4). i think that territorial cooperation is very useful through very concrete actions implemented on the ground and that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because european territorial cooperation (etc) is one of the objectives of cohesion policy and provides a framework within which national, regional and local actors from different member states can carry out joint actions and exchange policies. these initiatives are important because the problems faced by member states and regions increasingly transcend national or regional borders and require joint action at the appropriate territorial level in a cooperative approach. the etc will help to promote territorial cohesion
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which will enable the development of european groupings of territorial authorities (egts). with 700 local authorities involved, egtcs are tangible successes in the construction of europe and help to improve the daily lives of millions of citizens. in view of the administrative burden on local and regional authorities, it was important to simplify the arrangements for participation in the egtc, which will be made possible in particular by the new tacit approval procedure.
in writing. the european regional development fund is a key instrument for reducing disparities between regions and strengthening their cohesion, mainly for the benefit of those facing the greatest difficulties due to their situation or to changes in the economic situation. i therefore support the modernisation of the erdf so that it focuses on future-oriented actions based on research, innovation and new technologies. the effectiveness of the fund will be enhanced by a clearer framework and by strengthening links of complementarity with other funds. this is the guarantee of a real added value of european action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i want to promote the european territorial cooperation objective of the european regional development fund (erdf). i am particularly in favour of including the integration of crossborder labour markets as an investment priority in this objective. this objective is of paramount importance in crossborder regions such as midi-pyrénées, where european territorial cooperation is one of the objectives of cohesion policy. i also support the objective of improving the strategic orientation of programmes and making them more results-oriented, while reducing the administrative burden for the implementation of these cooperation programmes. however, i maintain that it is also necessary to take into account, in the context of this objective, the development of infrastructure to promote cross-border tourism.
in writing. i voted for this report because it contains some very important advances. territorial cooperation projects are a daily reality of european integration, encouraging local and regional actors to cooperate. it should be noted that, thanks to the will of the parliamentarians, the amount allocated to cooperation is the only one increasing, with almost 9 billion euros for 2014-2020. however, this represents only 2.75% of the total amount of the structural funds, whereas parliament, in its mandate, demanded 7%.
in writing. i supported this report. the commission proposal is part of the drive to simplify cohesion policy and contains provisions on thematic concentration and investment priorities. the aim is to achieve a better strategic orientation of programmes, while at the same time increasing their focus on results. european territorial cooperation will thus be developed at cross-border, transnational and interregional levels. the report was adopted by 629 votes to 25, with 35 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation, which allows for the financing of crossborder projects. these provisions are important in order to foster cooperation between european citizens beyond the regions, and to show the positive side of the opening of borders between eu countries, for regions close to the borders in particular.
in writing. the parliament's text improves marginally the commission's proposal for the establishment of the european territorial cooperation objective by the erdf. the allocation of funds for this objective is increased from 3.48% to 7% and it can now include the so-called 'ultra-peripheral' regions such as réunion. but there are still some fundamental problems. references to improving competitiveness through integration into the single market are maintained, as are those concerning cross-border mobility. this is an incentive to relocation and encourages fiscal and social dumping between the member states of the european union. despite the fact that french territories such as réunion could benefit from erdf aid under this text, i cannot associate my vote with measures which reinforce the worst aspects of the european union. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. territorial cooperation is an extraordinary lever. many citizens share the same experiences or have the same ambitions, and sometimes even in cross-border territories, with which they share a history, a culture. it is therefore logical that europe is becoming the most appropriate level for developing joint projects. i know this because i come from a region that has a strong shared history with northern spain.
in writing. the cohesion fund is aimed at member states whose gross national income (gni) per capita is less than 90% of the average gni per capita in the european union and offers funding primarily for improving infrastructure and environmental policies, which is essential for these countries. i therefore supported the new rules proposed in this report for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the agreement reached on the cohesion funds enshrines an important change, which parliament wanted: companies will be able to receive support for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, as it was agreed that non-smes will also be able to receive support. in addition, special attention was paid to environmental issues. in addition to support for energy efficiency and renewable energy in the housing sector, and district heating and cogeneration, the waste and water sectors have been the subject of important agreement, according to which investments in these sectors will be possible not only to meet the obligations arising from the union's environmental acquis but also to go beyond and meet the needs identified by member states.
in writing. this new framework for the cohesion fund for the next seven years will support states and regions facing particular difficulties, for the benefit of the european union as a whole. it holds immense opportunities for growth, employment and competitiveness for our businesses, and for reducing disparities between our territories.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of a clear definition of the scope of the cohesion fund's intervention, in the context of cohesion policy 2014-2020, in order to ensure a better efficiency of the fund. i think it is particularly appropriate that this fund should focus on the transport and environment sectors. i therefore support the cohesion fund's objective of contributing to investments in the transeuropean transport network, as well as in low-carbon transport systems and urban transport. the establishment of efficient and environmentally friendly transport networks will then promote sustainable development in our regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague victor bostinaru, which sets out the rules applicable to the cohesion funds for the period 2014-2020. compared to the current period, the scope of assistance has been extended to include support for integrated actions for sustainable urban development (energy efficiency, energy-efficient heating, etc.) reflecting the particular attention paid to environmental issues, particularly in priority investments. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which revises the rules for financing the structural funds. although the total budget for cohesion policy is down by 8.5% compared to the 2007-2013 period, simplification of the rules should make it possible to use the money available more efficiently. the creation of a new category with 'transition regions' will make it possible to provide specific eu support, where needed, to boost growth in these regions.
in writing. in the commission's text, one point particularly troubled me: the cohesion fund's (cf) support for road construction. this point has been deleted by parliament. other positive elements were added, such as the financing of metro and tram lines, monitoring of soil waterproofing and the number of kilometres of improved or new inland waterways. that said, two negative elements were added: the non-financing of firms in difficulty and the reference to the european interconnection mechanism (eim), a text which i opposed. the report also validates the principle of austerity conditionality in the management of the cohesion fund by referring to the amendment of the general framework of the funds. these reservations prevent me from voting in favour of parliament's text: i shall abstain.
in writing. the cohesion fund for the new 2014-2020 programming period will provide co-financing for actions in the member states most in difficulty. the fund will focus on projects that support the transition to a low greenhouse gas emission economy, climate change adaptation, environmental protection and energy efficiency, and the promotion of sustainable transport. i consider these objectives to be positive in promoting environmentally conscious economic and social development. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this fund is the main concrete achievement of european solidarity on the ground. it has been around for a long time now, has allowed the less wealthy countries in europe to make rapid progress, particularly in building road and transport infrastructure. i am thinking here of the enormous progress made in our spanish neighbours or even in poland. i'm glad he's back on the force. despite the crisis, this fund must continue.
in writing. the european grouping of territorial cooperation (egtc) is a legal instrument created in 2006 to develop political cooperation across borders. it has its own legal personality and facilitates cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation between actors at different levels (member states, regional and local authorities, etc.) who wish to tackle common problems together. egtcs enable these partners to implement joint projects, exchange experience and improve coordination in spatial planning. some 40 egtcs have already been set up within the european union, of which about 10 are in france, such as the lille-kortrijk-tournai eurometropolis, which facilitates cooperation between the french and the belgians, both from the french-speaking region of wallonia and the dutch-speaking region of flanders. the new rules described in this report for the period 2014-2020 strengthen egtcs, in particular by facilitating their creation and the amendment of their statutes. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because parliament's negotiating team succeeded in preserving the primary objective of the revision: simplification, legal certainty and flexibility in the application of the rules, and reduction of the administrative burden for the 'european groupings of territorial cooperation' (egtcs) and their potential members.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of clarifying and improving european legislation on european groupings of territorial cooperation (egtcs), adapting it to the challenges posed by cohesion policy. i particularly approve of the opening up of egtcs to all public service providers, including those governed by private law. the aim of this amendment to the legislation is to participate in territorial cooperation, particularly in the fields of transport and energy and water supply. this adaptation of european legislation will thus have a positive impact on the better development of our regions in europe.
in writing. i am in favour of this text as it provides for the simplification of the rules governing the european grouping of territorial cooperation. the aim is to facilitate crossborder cooperation and to carry out ambitious territorial cooperation projects.
in writing. i voted for this report because it contains some very important advances. the egtc, set up in 2007, enables local and regional authorities to form a collaborative grouping to overcome the obstacles to territorial cooperation. however, many difficulties were noted by the actors concerned. now, this new regulation will make things easier for them. there will be fewer arbitrary decisions, and the egtc authorisation process will now be fast and transparent. the egtc may also determine the labour law for its staff. finally, and this is a major victory, the outermost regions (outermost regions) will now be eligible for egtcs, without the distance between them being an obstacle. egtcs can be used in the context of crossborder cooperation, but also neighbourhood policies or to manage crossborder territorial cooperation programmes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague joachim zeller which amends the current rules for the european grouping of territorial cooperation, which is a tool to facilitate and promote crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation. it can implement a wide range of programmes financed by the european union. the report simplifies the procedures for creation, increases the opportunities for participation for third countries and provides for more specific rules on labour law. i therefore welcome the very broad adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on european territorial cooperation groupings, whose structure allows cooperation between different actors in crossborder regions, whether or not the project is co-financed by the european union. the eu's creation of a structure to simplify cooperation between public bodies in the member states has significant added value.
in writing. the regulation governing the egtc, the european grouping for territorial cooperation, is to be amended. it is a cooperation instrument set up by the european parliament and the council in july 2006. it is intended to respond to the difficulties encountered in the field of crossborder cooperation and to facilitate and promote crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation between its members. the eu has a very strange definition of cooperation. as always, the aim is to 'remove barriers to the internal market'. the report also introduces the possibility for egtcs to manage services of general economic interest in order to accelerate the breakdown of the public service. i vote against it.
in writing. the european grouping of territorial cooperation is a very recent instrument, but one which has demonstrated its usefulness on many occasions. however, it was necessary to simplify it to make it more accessible and operational. this is to serve as a catalyst for european territorial cooperation initiatives. they are excellent ways of forging links between europeans and territories that share common goals or ambitions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to improve the gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies by setting a target of a minimum of 40% of members of each sex on company boards. these targets are to be achieved by 2020 for non-executive directors and by 2018 for publicly listed companies. the gender balance among executive directors is a flexible objective. the proposal covers public and private companies listed on the stock exchange. listed small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of eu recommendation 2003/361/ec (< 250 employees and ≤ € 50 million turnover) are excluded from the scope of the directive, as are sectors where women represent less than 10% of the workforce. member states are free to choose the appropriate sanctions; provided that they are effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
in writing. whether in terms of wages, careers, pensions, parttime work (which is overwhelmingly done by women, and often suffered by them), inequalities remain glaring in europe. progress on gender equality is slow and often constrained. in most eu member states, laws and sanctions are necessary to advance equality. the directive we voted today aims to introduce a procedural quota to strengthen the place of women on boards. by 2020, the target is to reach 40% of women in these bodies - in non-executive positions - which would be a breakthrough. france, like a dozen other european countries, has already adopted legislation in this direction. but other countries, as a blocking minority, block the adoption of such legislation in the council. we are voting in favour of this instrument and we are calling on the council to do the same quickly.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint report by the legal affairs committee and the women's committee because it is the result of a balanced compromise between and within the various political groups in parliament. it does, however, offer a significant step forward in terms of equality between men and women.
in writing. the european parliament took a strong stand by voting in favour of this report, despite pressure from member states, despite resistance within the european commission itself. the european parliament supports vice-president reding's proposal to see 40% of women in the executive board of listed companies by 2020. i am hopeful that this will be a trigger for more equality and social justice across the labour market. i welcome the fact that my proposals to extend this ambition to all directors of listed companies, not just non-executive directors, have been taken into account: the commission will have to assess the possibility of such an extension in a few years' time. this is a real step forward for all women, and europe must lead by example at the global level.
in writing. inequalities between men and women remain glaring in european countries. france is also one of the worst pupils: it ranks 18th in europe in terms of women's representation in the national assembly and has only 15% of women in the cac 40 enterprises. yet women make up more than half the population and now have higher education than men. while the european union is a strong advocate of women's rights in its external action, it is essential to act within its borders as well. this directive is a step in that direction. the aim is that by 2020 at the latest, 40% of the non-executive directors of large listed companies should be women. companies that do not respect these parity rules in the recruitment process will have to justify this and could, in the long run, be subject to sanctions.
in writing. on wednesday, we adopted, at first reading, the report by our greek colleague kratsa-tsagaropoulou on the draft directive on the better representation of women on the boards of large listed european companies. the text, which is based on the french copé-zimmermann act of 2011, is balanced. the proposed instrument is flexible and allows for the need to introduce more equality and parity, without, however, at any time preventing companies from selecting the best possible candidates, or denying the legal and economic culture of each member state. this text, which calls for greater participation by women in the boards of publicly listed companies, is very important not only for women but also for the whole of the european economy! 60% of higher education graduates in europe are now women. when we consider the major imbalance in the representation of women on the supervisory boards of large companies today, we cannot help but be alarmed by the phenomenal amount of skills and assets that europe is losing! especially in a crisis!
in writing. i vote in favour of this report which proposes to ensure gender balance on the boards of listed companies and to promote gender equality in economic decision-making. my group voted in favour of this directive, unlike the far-right groups who voted massively against the advancement of women's rights. the report calls on companies to ensure that at least 40% of their directors are women. publicly traded companies will have until 2020 to achieve this target, while public institutions will have to do so by 2018. however, this increase is limited, since only non-decisive items are concerned. in addition, it is a procedural quota and not a quantitative quota, which means that the companies concerned will not be required to meet this quota a priori, but to have in place adequate selection procedures ensuring that qualified women are taken into account in order to achieve this objective. the report also calls for a transparent, open and merit-based recruitment process in which gender balance is the main point. the council will have to reach a common position, and it already seems that it will be difficult to achieve this.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text encouraging greater representation of women on boards of directors. companies, especially those listed on stock exchanges, should change their procedure for appointing members of their boards of directors to make them more open and transparent. it is not normal that in 2013 women represent only 17.6% of the members in these positions.
in writing. this report promotes a relative parity in the decision-making bodies of listed companies. this is a good thing if we consider that capitalist activity is useful. in any case, the text has many limitations. the penalties provided for do not concern non-compliance with the directive but only non-compliance with the requirements of an open and transparent procedure. it does not concern smes, which further limits its action. finally, it is based on differentialist arguments (women have a more collective mindset) which is opposed to my universalist view of the human race. i'm not going to.
in writing. this report deals with the proposal for a directive to introduce a 40% quota for women on boards of directors, whereas women currently make up on average only 13.7% of the members of these bodies. if france is one of the good students, having already enacted binding quotas with penalties, many european countries have not legislated on the subject and this directive is thus an opportunity to harmonise the member states' legislation in this area. so i decided to support her.
in writing. in france, the proportion of women on the boards of the french cac 40 companies increased by 10 percentage points to 22.3% between october 2010 and january 2012. in italy, where a law was passed in 2011, the number of women on the boards of listed companies increased by 4.9 points between january 2012 and october 2012. this example shows that in this particular area, self-regulation is not the right solution. that is why i voted in favour of this report and will be attentive to the transposition of this directive into national law.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which will allow for greater representation of women in large companies. in 2013, only 17.6% of non-executive board members of the largest european companies were women. the text proposes that listed companies apply transparent selection procedures so that by 2020 at least 40% of their non-executive directors are women. it is crucial to combat the stereotypes and glass ceilings that hold back the careers of those belonging to the 'weaker sex'. however, this is by no means a question of preferring gender over merit. the principle of this measure is to propose that, with equal qualifications and competence, a company should be enriched by the diversity of its personnel and open up to candidates of the underrepresented sex. failure to comply with the appointment procedures may result in sanctions for these large companies. smes are exempt from these rules.
in writing. across europe, the proportion of women in publicly traded companies appears to be increasing. in france, the proportion of women on the boards of cac40 companies jumped by 10 percentage points between october 2010 and january 2012 to 22.3%. it is not by means of a european directive that this process, which necessarily requires time, must be changed or accelerated. quotas are never a substitute for merit. this text is also inconsistent and inapplicable as demonstrated by the following proposed amendment: 'where the pre-selection of candidates is based on an election or a vote, for example by employees or their representatives, the procedure should be adapted throughout the process in order to contribute to the objective of better gender parity within the board of directors as a whole, while ensuring that the sex of the director elected by this procedure has in no way been decided in advance.' good luck to the lawyer who's gonna have to create the procedure...
in writing. the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports. the principles of cross compliance set out in the la via report should promote environmental protection without hampering the work of farmers. i welcome the fact that financial controls are now proportionate to the errors found. the commission will also be able to reduce controls in regions where management errors are not so widespread.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because we have been able to strike a new balance between the north and the south of europe, because i believe that the introduction of parliament into the debate has also made it possible to rebalance policies by taking better account of the aspirations of the different peoples who make up our union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report 'the way forward for the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-20'. with a budget of over €400 billion, the cap remains the leading european policy. it helps to support our farmers' commitment to environmental protection and at the same time strengthens the competitiveness of their businesses. i particularly welcome the adoption of the support for the entry into the agricultural sector of young people under 40 and the establishment of safety nets to counter the volatility of raw material prices. the market for our agricultural products must be regulated. we will not accept the entry onto the european market of agricultural products which do not meet our health, social and environmental standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which deals with the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020, because in view of the challenges posed by the european objectives of food security, environmental protection and territorial development, it is essential to ensure the effectiveness of this policy with appropriate budgetary resources. the european union's strategy for the common agricultural policy has major implications for our citizens, who are subject to the vagaries of the agricultural market. i am in particular in favour of making the financing system more transparent by strengthening the role of the coordinating body for the paying agencies, which will also reduce the administrative burden on national administrations.
in writing. the compromise reached by parliament and the council on all the texts which will now regulate agricultural policy is not a good compromise. it continues and completes the deregulation of a sector whose specificities and strategic importance are obvious and fully justify a general derogation from your competitive and ultra-bargaining obsessions. it maintains unfair competition within the european union; it may even lead to harmful interregional competition within the member states; it is, of course, in the context of a world market which is in the process of being totally liberalised. in france, one farmer commits suicide every day. this is a shocking figure which reflects the despair of an entire profession, and for which european policy and its national variations are largely responsible. farmers don't ask to be assisted. they demand that their products be paid at a price that reflects the costs they bear and allows a decent remuneration for their work. it is not necessary to recall that a large part of these costs is due to the constraints imposed by brussels. i repeat: only market regulation and rigorous application of national and european preference can make this possible.
in writing. i voted against this regulation because, as it stands, it will not allow the common agricultural policy to change direction the environmentalists have suffered a serious and bitter defeat, as the overwhelming majority of our demands have not been voted on. the european parliament has made its choice between quality agriculture and productivist agriculture. and it's not mine. the outcome of the negotiations was the result of the vote on parliament's position in march: catastrophic. no crop rotation, no ineligibility for subsidies for farmers growing gmos, no european ceiling on aid. national selfishness and lobby interests have taken precedence over the general interest and the establishment of food sovereignty in europe.
in writing. the common agricultural policy (cap) represents the largest share of the eu budget: €373 billion for the next 7 years. the budget voted, however, has been severely cut compared to the previous budget of 426 billion. this is at a time when the agricultural sector is facing a serious crisis. farmers face fluctuating market prices, skyrocketing costs and struggle to balance their farms. the cap money does not help to stop the problem, because it goes massively to the large farms. we had proposed that a single farm should not receive more than eur 100 000 from the cap. but no ceiling system was accepted. what we are advocating is: the stabilization of markets, decent remuneration for farmers' work by ensuring stable prices for a given volume of production, the supply of quality food at reasonable prices, and respect for food sovereignty. this text, which was advertised as a reform, changes little. what is worse is that the budget is falling, while we need ambitious policies. we have therefore voted against this reform of the cap.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague giovanni la via, which reforms the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020, in particular as regards its management and monitoring. variable geometry controls will be introduced, increasing controls in the most problematic regions and reducing those in the regions most compliant with the cap rules. in addition, the commission will have to present an evaluation of the cap's performance every four years to measure its effectiveness. farmers will have specific and verifiable obligations in respect of the environment, which will be conditional on the payment of certain aid, in order to ensure green and sustainable agriculture in the european union. member states will be required to provide advice to farmers to help them comply with the principles laid down by the cap. in addition, full transparency will be required of the member states as to who receives aid, with the exception of aid for the smallest farmers. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. following the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament worked for the first time in its history on an equal footing with the member states to define a new structure for the cap. in particular, the rules on penalties were revised and the principle of proportionality introduced, with an alert system, which makes it possible to warn the farmer in the event of irregularity and to apply the penalty the following year, retroactively, if the situation has not been corrected.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy is essentially technical in nature and concerns the rules governing: the financing of cap expenditure, including rural development expenditure; the agricultural advisory system; the management and control systems to be set up by the member states; the conditionality system; and the settlement. but all these provisions apply to a system of aid which encourages the concentration of agricultural production and the destruction of jobs. i vote against it.
in writing. two points in particular motivated my support for this regulation, which sets the general conditions for the reform of the cap. on the one hand, the list of subjects on which member states will be required to advise farmers has been extended to include, in particular, conditionality, direct green payments, or the conditions for maintaining land eligible for direct payments. on the other hand, a crisis reserve will be created each year for an amount of eur 400 million, and if this crisis amount is not used, it will be reimbursed to farmers in the form of direct payments the following year.
in writing. agriculture is today at the crossroads of major challenges: climate, energy, food. the need for a transformation of production is now becoming unavoidable. through the new european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd, the cap's financing instrument) and in line with the desire to revive the european economy, the new cap will have to promote the integration of young farmers and provide a strong incentive for investment. i welcome the phasing out of direct aid, the convergence of aid per hectare (the principle of which is to reduce the gap between the aid received by the member states and the community average), the introduction of a ceiling which will prevent the owners of the largest number of hectares from receiving the largest number of aid, and the premium for the first 52 hectares. the creation of the young farmer payment per hectare, which will be in addition to the existing support based on the young farmer allowance and subsidised loans, is also welcome. it also reinforces the necessary move towards agri-environmental measures and sets out measures to revitalise rural areas and develop more sustainable agriculture.
in writing. i supported this report on the transparency of financial products which will help to better protect small investors in europe. it opens the door to the harmonisation and simplification of the information documents provided by intermediaries, and this for a larger number of financial products than the commission's original text provided for. parliament also called for the powers of the supervisory authorities to be extended to limit the most toxic financial products. i now hope that the council will show the same ambition as parliament in order to reach a protective agreement before the end of the mandate.
in writing. i support the objective of this text, which will help to protect european investors, especially the smallest ones, by ensuring that they have simple, accurate and clear information about their investment products. protecting small investors means both protecting them from possible reversals of the business cycle and avoiding putting them in situations they would not control, but above all it means protecting our economies by ensuring that everyone makes choices that they can take on in the long term.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text to improve the transparency of the investment market. i think it is particularly important to remove the obstacles to the establishment of a single market for financial products and services and to establish uniform criteria for transparency. it is essential to promote better information for our citizens in order to guarantee consumer protection within our internal market. i therefore support the proposal to establish a key information document (kid) for each investment product which should be available on the internet before the product is sold.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague pervenche berès. today, individual investors are directly affected by the economic and financial crisis and are vulnerable. many savers no longer invest their savings because of the presence of financial products that are considered safe but that ultimately cause significant losses. this report highlights these difficulties and pursues the objective of investor protection. the aim is to propose rules for all packaged investment products in order to improve the information provided to investors. the vote on the legislative resolution has been referred back to committee for the time being.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on key information documents for investment products. in order to improve information about financial markets, it is important that small investors can receive clear information about investments so that they can compare them. this information could provide information on the contribution of the fund to an environmental or social project.
in writing. the purpose of this regulation is to enhance the transparency of investment products and make them comparable for retail clients. the aim is to promote 'financial education' for individuals rather than regulating companies in this sector. a key information document for investment products (kidip) is drawn up by the seller of the product. it should help savers to make an informed investment decision by comparing different investment products, their possible returns and risks. it is true that the customer may challenge the liability of the originator of the product by invoking an infringement of this regulation in the event that the information document is misleading or inaccurate. it is not serious to shift the responsibility for financial control onto the consumer. i vote against it.
in writing. the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports. the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) will finance concrete projects in rural areas, in particular in the following 6 priority areas: knowledge transfer and innovation; strengthening competitiveness and sustainable forest management; promoting risk organisation and management; restoring, protecting and strengthening ecosystems; efficient use of resources; social inclusion, poverty reduction and economic development in rural areas.
in writing. we have been able to strike a new balance between the north and the south of europe, because i believe that the introduction of parliament into the debate has also allowed a rebalancing of policies by taking better account of the aspirations of the different peoples who make up our union. the text adopted allows us to reaffirm our commitment to a sustainable and competitive agricultural model. we support our farmers' commitment to environmental protection while strengthening the competitiveness of their businesses. we are also focusing on young farmers by setting up a youth entry support for farmers under 40. the reform also provides safety nets to reduce the volatility of commodity prices.
in writing. the eafrd is a key instrument to support rural development in europe. i am particularly pleased that this text pays particular attention to smes and the role of women in rural areas, as they are key players in the future of our agriculture. our objective in voting for this text is clear: dynamic and sustainable rural areas, capable of meeting the needs of europeans and of competing internationally.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this text which promotes responsible agriculture for the period 2014-2020. the commission's proposal is a perfect fit for the europe 2020 programme's objective of green growth. in the midi-pyrenees, agriculture is also a major industry. the midi-pyrénées region, which is the french region with the largest number of farms, concentrates one tenth of its working population in this sector. the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) will then be able to provide the best possible support for the agricultural workers of midi-pyrénées in the transition to a new type of agriculture that is more environmentally friendly.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague luis manuel capoulas santos, which sets out the rules for the european agricultural fund for rural development for the period 2014-2020. member states or regions will continue to design their own programmes on the basis of available european measures, in order to meet the needs identified in their own territories. the main priorities have been defined, with objectives, which will guide the member states in the use of available european measures. this flexible approach will allow member states to respond to developments in the achievement of these objectives and to adapt the measures adopted accordingly. thematic sub-programmes could also be developed, with particular attention to issues such as young farmers, biodiversity and innovation. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr luis manuel capoulas santos on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on support for rural development by the eafrd as it contributes to improving the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector, the environment and the landscape, as well as the quality of life in rural areas and the diversification of the rural economy. the proposal also contains very interesting approaches to tackling the eu's environmental policy challenges by creating and strengthening incentives for more sustainable agriculture. finally, rural development should be promoted not only in the agricultural sector, but also through the development of health care and prevention structures that would counteract the migratory trends in rural areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eafrd, which provides for a positive investment of the budget for the common agricultural policy in rural areas. these measures are important for developing the rural economy but also for investing in projects for the conservation of natural resources.
in writing. the report endorses the reduction in the budget for the second pillar after taking inflation into account. so it will also be austerity for rural development. the report also notes the inclusion in the second pillar of the cap of public funding for the use of private insurance against changes in farmers' incomes. this is unacceptable for two reasons. firstly, that is the amount of money that would be most useful for rural development. secondly, if public money is to be invested to stabilise farmers' incomes, it must be done through public mechanisms. finally, the insurance system is one component of the package of measures to finance agriculture. i vote against it.
in writing. the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) aims to address environmental challenges by promoting more sustainable agriculture and rural development. the fund will help member states or regions to devise programmes in both these areas. i decided to vote in favour of this report because of the laudable ambitions it sets out in terms of sustainable agriculture and rural development, but also so that agricultural operators in the ors and octs will be able to continue the implementation of programmes in these areas from the beginning of 2014.
in writing. while rural development policy retains the same central concept, its priorities are renewed. this will include measures to enhance competitiveness and sustainable forest management, risk management and the efficient use of resources. in more concrete terms, young farmers will be eligible for combined measures that can combine grants for starting up activities (up to €70,000), physical investments and training and advisory services. another example: small farms will also be able to benefit from start-up aid of up to eur 15 000.
in writing. i welcome the results of this vote on the european agricultural fund for rural development, which benefits, in parallel with the financing of the common agricultural policy, rural communes and farmers carrying out structural development projects. small farmers may feel that they are being left behind by the eu, but the massive support of our parliament for this strategic policy of co-financing shows them that they are, on the contrary, europe's indispensable partners for the vitality of our rural areas. through the financial support of the eafrd, farmers, herders and local elected representatives find valuable support for projects aimed at adaptation to climate change, mitigation of the effects of natural constraints and energy and digital transition of farms and agricultural territories. i remain vigilant, however, because we would miss the objectives set by this regulation and the ambitions of the eafrd if we do not ensure optimal visibility and effective information so that project promoters know what is possible to achieve with these funds, the importance of which no one, in this period of crisis and change, can ignore.
in writing. the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports. i would like to congratulate my colleague michel dantin on the excellent work he has done on this report, particularly with regard to the wine sector, which is so important for many territories. as regards wine production, the report reviews the abolition of planting rights and provides for the introduction of a new system of authorisations for new plantings from 2016 (provision in force until 2030), with a limit of 1% per year for the extension of vineyards, which member states may lower to 0.1% if they consider it necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague michel dantin on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products. with this report we have preserved the market orientation of european agriculture, while giving more resources and room for manoeuvre to the actors, producers and sectors.
in writing. i maintain that it is regrettable that aid to the poorest has been removed from the scope of this text to be managed by a separate fund: linking aid to the poorest and agricultural policy is obvious, but i hope that the new instrument will be able to rise to the challenge. this aside, it is welcome that the text strengthens cooperation between farmers to give them a voice in matters which concern them. i am also pleased that we have managed to reach a satisfactory compromise on the development of planting rights and milk quotas, but we must remain vigilant in the years ahead to ensure that these reforms are implemented without prejudicing the legitimate interests of our farmers.
in writing. following lengthy negotiations between the council and the european parliament, agreement was reached on a new common organisation of the markets in agricultural products. it promotes the emergence of an environmentally friendly agriculture, concerned with product quality, traceability and food safety and with the carbon footprint. the new cap is designed to protect the environment. from now on, 30% of direct payments will be linked to sustainable practices, such as crop diversification or the maintenance of permanent pastures. these measures will ensure the sustainable competitiveness of european agriculture on the world stage and will improve food security. this new organization of the cap also deals with financing problems. european aid will now be distributed more equitably among the operators. the budget for rural development is increased. the proposal adopted aims to simplify and reduce the administrative burdens which are still too heavy and complex. this will only make sense if the national and regional authorities, particularly in france, apply this objective and do not add yet new bureaucratic obligations that are unsustainable for farmers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal to streamline the common organisations of agricultural markets. this type of grouping is becoming more frequent in order to reduce costs but also to provide better quality products. there are many examples in the midi-pyrenees. there are many clusters for organic farming, which make it possible to optimise organic farming. it is therefore only right that the european union should help these new types of groupings.
in writing. i supported this report. it establishes a safety net which will take account, for the first time, of profit margins; a safeguard clause will allow for a rapid reaction in the event of serious market disturbances; and finally a crisis reserve is set up. some sectors are specifically treated, such as the sugar sector, which will be subject to new provisions from 2017. new solutions and responses have been introduced to several productions. the report was adopted by 426 votes to 253 with 8 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on market management mechanisms, which includes a safeguard clause, introduced for all sectors, and will allow the european commission to take emergency measures to respond to general market disturbances.
in writing. - i thank and congratulate mr michel dantin on the work he has done on the proposal which has been adopted today, since the common organization of the markets is an essential point and an important priority in the reform of the common agricultural policy. the new reform should lead to better regulation and a substantial reduction in the bureaucratic burden on farmers, thus avoiding increased administrative burdens and consequently increased costs for national authorities. the expenditure must be designed to ensure the proper management of eu funds. in addition, issues relating to the op and producer associations were positively addressed. i would also like to stress that the reform takes account of the new marketing, production and quality standards.
in writing. this report endorses a reform that results in more deregulation of markets, the disappearance of the remaining regulatory tools and the absence of proposals to respond to price volatility or unprofitable prices. it also calls for the abolition of milk quotas from 2015. i vote against it.
in writing. the report amends certain trade standards on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products. i regret the outcome of the negotiations between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council, which call for an end to sugar quotas. i regret that cane growers are now subject to fluctuations in international prices. the future of our planters and the development of our islands has been deliberately placed in the hands of the stock exchanges, which is absolutely outrageous. i therefore opposed the report.
in writing. i am pleased to have been able to adopt the cap reform today. almost the whole of the mandate will have been devoted to the re-examination of this fundamental european policy. the single cmo report is a step in the right direction, promoting not only quality agriculture but also greener and, above all, better organised agriculture. i think that is a key point in the report: the maintenance of planting rights. i am proud to have fought alongside the wine growers since i came to the european parliament. this means that just because a battle is difficult does not mean it cannot be won. i am also glad to have supported the strengthening of the organisation of agricultural sectors, so that farmers can be stronger in the face of the market and can live better from their products. it's a bold reform.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new, fairer and more sustainable common organisation of the market. i would like to warmly congratulate my colleague michel dantin who has succeeded in reorienting an agricultural policy that was said to be too liberal, to make it a tool for farmers. these new rules will enable them to cope with market volatility and strengthen their bargaining position vis-à-vis the retail and agri-food industries. this regulation also makes it possible - and this is a great victory for parliament - to restore planting rights and thus preserve quality viticulture. finally, the cmu will make it possible to promote the distribution and consumption of fruit and vegetables more effectively, both at school and among the poorest.
in writing. food is an economic field in its own right and, in this area, history shows us that we cannot rely solely on market law to ensure our most basic need: food security. in the past, public authorities have had to intervene repeatedly to deal with the vagaries of nature and temporary imbalances. this has so far ensured that consumers are supplied at affordable prices, while farmers have a regular income. we had to preserve at all costs this prerogative and the possibility of control of the markets by the european public authorities. with the final adoption of the cap 2014-2020, this is done. we have introduced a wide range of measures to control prices and production: storage aid, production quotas, safeguard clauses. i am particularly pleased with the renewal of planting rights, which was much awaited in my constituency, and which eliminates the prospect of a total liberalisation of wine production, which nobody wanted and which would have been to the detriment of producers and consumers.
in writing. the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports. i particularly welcome the promotion of sustainable practices, the financial support available to young farmers who are starting out, and the systems of degressivity and capping of aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the text adopted allows us to reaffirm our commitment to a sustainable and competitive agricultural model. we support our farmers' commitment to environmental protection while strengthening the competitiveness of their businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will make it easier for farmers to pay. the complexity of the payment arrangements for cap subsidies has long been recognised. the proposal also aims to simplify the scheme for small farmers. farmers who are also facing economic and social difficulties are not forgotten by this proposal insofar as optional support may be granted to them.
in writing. i voted against this regulation because, as it stands, it will not allow the common agricultural policy to change direction. the environmentalists have suffered a serious and bitter defeat, as the overwhelming majority of our demands have not been voted on. the european parliament has made its choice between quality agriculture and productivist agriculture. and it's not mine. the outcome of the negotiations following the vote on parliament's position in march was catastrophic. no crop rotation, no ineligibility for subsidies for farmers growing gmos, no european ceiling on aid. national selfishness and lobby interests have taken precedence over the general interest and the establishment of food sovereignty in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new common agricultural policy (cap). the eu's agricultural policy will receive €373.2 billion over the period 2014-2020, which remains the largest item in the eu budget. preserving ecosystems in the long term while ensuring the sustainable competitiveness of agriculture is how food security will be guaranteed. one of the developments in the new cap is the 'greening' of the cap, which links part of the subsidies to environmental protection. measures are also provided for young farmers. it is important to encourage generational renewal, an additional 25% payment to young farmers (under 40) who are starting out in the profession. this payment will be in addition to the basic payment for the first five years of their installation.
in writing. i welcome the new cap, which has been developed thanks to the intensive efforts of our colleagues to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the defence of an activity sector essential to the life of all and, on the other hand, the need to preserve the environment in which this activity is carried out. in the end, this is a great result: a cap that is fairer between countries, regions, farmers and production, taking better account of the wealth of each; a greener cap that allows for a shift towards more sustainable production models; a cap that will give more support to young farmers; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible. finally, a more regulatory cap, maintaining planting authorizations in the wine sector and sugar quotas. this reform is therefore an important step forward in ensuring a better redistribution of aid and enabling farmers to continue to contribute to the creation and maintenance of jobs in rural areas and to the balanced use of land.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has finally approved the reform of the common agricultural policy, the guidelines of which seem to me to be as close as possible to reality, taking into account both the difficult working conditions of farmers in times of crisis and the requirements of citizens who seek quality and reliability in the products they consume. the cap was in dire need of a thorough reform, but we must now maintain this course because successive reforms have confused farmers, which in the long run has fed their distrust of, and even rejection of, the european institutions. i think that the distribution of aid in a fairer and more balanced way between the farms was an urgent and necessary measure, as was the establishment aid for young farmers, who are becoming less and less likely to 'marry' this demanding and exciting profession. despite a shrinking budget, france will continue to be the biggest beneficiary of the cap for the next seven years, receiving more than €55 billion.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague luis manuel capoulas santos. this agreement, which was negotiated with the council and the commission, allows each party to take account of its priorities and concerns and demonstrates the spirit of compromise in which it was drawn up. with this agreement we have achieved our main objectives: to ensure a greener, fairer and simpler common agricultural policy between the member states and farmers. the agreement was adopted by 440 votes to 238, with 10 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr luis manuel capoulas santos on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down rules on direct payments to farmers under support schemes under the common agricultural policy, as the new direct payments provide for a resource allocation criterion which will not allow any member state to receive less than 65% of the eu average. as regards the distribution of aid within individual member states, more attention will be paid to those areas and sectors where a too sudden reduction in aid could have a negative impact on the incomes of agricultural producers.
in writing. this report is part of the package on the cap, which was adopted after the vote on the european budget (a general reduction of 10%). with the cap budget being sharply reduced (from €426 billion to €373 billion for 2014-2020, a 13% decrease), it was important to change the current direction of the large farms and to take stock of the plight of small farms in a system of fierce competition. the commission's proposals were a sign of awareness and an embryo response so that the funds would benefit more environmentally friendly production and limit the amounts going to large farms. i have tabled amendments to push these proposals towards a more humane agriculture: protecting the incomes of small farmers; limiting the funds paid to farms to eur 100 000; maintaining a strong ecological conditionality. these were rejected and the most interesting proposals of the commission were stripped of their substance by the council. the cap 2014-2020 was a missed opportunity, so i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on direct payments, which shows a positive evolution in the role of the farmer who is no longer paid only for production but also for the environmental public goods he delivers, i.e. the maintenance of permanent grasslands, the diversification of crops, the maintenance of hedges, trees, hedgerows, biotopes, useful for the preservation of biodiversity.
in writing. this report focuses on a central aspect of the new cap. of course, it does show some progress compared to the current cap: a certain redistribution of aid between countries and within each country (convergence of aid) and the possibility for countries to provide additional support to the smallest farms (in france, the first 52 hectares). but this reform is not intended to ensure a real redistribution of aid between european countries and between farmers. it is very much below what would be necessary. it does not put an end to a system which increases income inequality rather than alleviating it and thus encourages the concentration of agricultural production and the destruction of jobs. there is still no ceiling on aid for the largest farms. moreover, 'greening' (environmental conditions for granting direct aid) is far from sufficient to encourage a genuine ecological transition in agriculture. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will better frame the direct financial support that the european union provides to farmers. the new common agricultural policy aims to combine several key priorities: food security, the competitiveness and quality of european agriculture, environmental protection and the fair distribution of european funds. the cap will only support active farmers, not golf clubs or airports as it has been able to do in the past. in addition, it will give priority to young people settling in the countryside to maintain their livelihood, offering an additional payment of 25% for their first hectares. the new cap will also be fairer: it will require convergence of payments both between european countries and within each member state, so that some farms do not receive all the appropriations. for example, farmers in my region, languedoc-roussillon, will thus be better assisted by the european union. finally, the cap will be greener: 30% of direct payments will be conditional on compulsory greening measures, such as crop diversification, the maintenance of permanent grasslands or the creation of 'areas of ecological interest'.
in writing. agriculture is today at the crossroads of major challenges: climate, energy, food. the need for a transformation of production is now becoming unavoidable. through the new european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd, the cap's financing instrument) and in line with the desire to revive the european economy, the new cap will have to promote the integration of young farmers and provide a strong incentive for investment. i welcome the phasing out of direct aid, the convergence of aid per hectare (the principle of which is to reduce the gap between the aid received by the member states and the community average), the introduction of a ceiling which will prevent the owners of the largest number of hectares from receiving the largest amount of aid, and the premium for the first 52 hectares. the creation of the young farmer payment per hectare, which will be in addition to the existing support based on the young farmer allowance and subsidised loans, is also welcome. it also reinforces the necessary move towards agri-environmental measures and sets out measures to revitalise rural areas and develop more sustainable agriculture.
in writing. the common agricultural policy is essential to ensure food security for europeans. however, over the years, this policy has been increasingly contested and criticized. some rightly point to the fact that non-agricultural enterprises are the majority beneficiaries of such aid, while others are indignant that the larger farms receive the most subsidies. by limiting the granting of aid to active farmers, by capping aid to large farms and by introducing a favourable regime for small farmers, the european agreement on the cap 2014-2020 responds precisely to the demand for a fairer and more efficient distribution of aid. the agreement also responds to the demand for a more environmentally friendly cap, while ensuring the economic viability of the agricultural sector: 30% of direct aids will be conditional on compliance with certain ecological practices. i believe we have reached a balanced agreement which reflects the idea of a greener, fairer and more efficient cap, for the benefit of farmers and consumers alike.
in writing. the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports. as the agreement on the future cap was reached too late in 2013 to be directly applicable on 1 january 2014, this report provides for a gradual transition from the old to the new rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the text adopted allows us to reaffirm our commitment to a sustainable and competitive agricultural model
in writing. the objective of this text is to ensure the continuity of the cap for 2014 while providing for adaptation to the new conditions defined in the next programming period. it will in particular reduce the administrative burden on farmers and local authorities, in order to ensure more effective implementation of the measures of the common agricultural policy. there is still work to be done to support our farmers in the face of the difficulties they face, but these measures are moving in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which allows for a better staggering of payments to the agricultural sector. the agricultural sector is a major activity in france, and i therefore support any action by the european union to strengthen support for this sector. the reformed common agricultural policy is expected to be implemented at the beginning of 2014. however, in order to facilitate a smooth transition, it is necessary to put in place transitional arrangements to allow the agricultural world to adapt smoothly to these new measures. i am in favour of giving member states more flexibility to meet the needs of their sector in terms of transferring funds so that each state can adopt an appropriate strategy according to its specific circumstances.
in writing. farmers should not pay the price for the power and influence play between the european institutions. these are not figures, subsidies or standards, but men and women who work, often hard, to feed france and europe. today farmers, especially the most vulnerable, are entitled to expect protection from europe rather than being forced to accept new rules and a forthcoming opening to global competition. the greening ideology, which casts a priori suspicion on agriculture, has fortunately been somewhat relaxed, but it is still very much alive. in addition, the commission inherits a great deal of interpretative power from the delegated acts and the poorly thought-out transition creates a new administrative burden that the profession does not need.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague albert dess which provides for transitional arrangements for 2014 pending the entry into force of the new agricultural policy. this report will allow for a smooth transition to the new system by allowing applications for transitional year funding for a number of rural development measures. in addition, the administrative burden on farmers and local authorities will be reduced, while member states will be able to start redistributing payments to smaller farmers as from 2014. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr albert deß on the proposal for a regulation laying down transitional provisions in relation to the application of the new cap, because although it will enter into force on 1 january 2014, it is certainly unlikely that all the aspects covered by this new programming will be activated by that date. transitional arrangements are therefore necessary to allow for a harmonious adjustment of the conditions of the new cap, both as regards direct payments and as regards rural development. the transitional provisions will be a useful way of establishing the rules for the transition between the two programming periods, which will certainly have to be linked.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on transitional provisions for rural development support. the rapid vote on this report is necessary because it covers the transitional period before the new cap rules, which will not apply from 1 january 2014, are put in place. this will allow applications for support to continue to be submitted during the transitional year.
in writing. this report provides for transitional arrangements for the disbursement of european funds between the end of the cap and the new cap. as i am opposed to the new cap, i cannot vote for these transitional arrangements. but the parliament's report avoids the worst by providing for the possibility for the states to pay the surcharge to small farms as from 2014. i'm not going to do anything to stop this little advance.
in writing. the economic crisis affecting europe has reduced the financial resources of the member states and thus their ability to contribute to the co-financing of projects partly financed by european funds. this means that the implementation of thousands of projects has been paralysed by lack of financial resources, particularly in slovakia and romania. to deal with this situation, i voted in favour of this report, which slightly loosens the rules to facilitate the use of these funds and thus the economic recovery of these countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because, in response to the prolonged economic and financial crisis, it aims to ensure the proper implementation of cohesion policy programmes and concerns the member states most affected by the crisis. the inability of some member states to achieve growth and employment targets because of the crisis requires us to adopt exceptional measures, limited in time, which allow for maximum and optimal use of the structural and cohesion fund appropriations available at the end of the programming period.
in writing. i am pleased that this text reflects a general ambition that we are now largely implementing to deal with the consequences of the crisis: that of increased flexibility to direct european funds and instruments towards the regions and populations that need them most. the text will make it possible to implement cohesion policy in the most effective way, in support of growth and employment in the regions most affected by the crisis.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague oldrich vlasák. some member states are currently experiencing serious difficulties in maintaining and ensuring their financial stability. we are approaching the end of the programming period and the priority must be to absorb funds efficiently. the report was adopted by 440 votes to 238 with 10 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. this proposal, adopted in response to the prolonged economic and financial crisis, aims to ensure the proper implementation of cohesion policy programmes and concerns the member states most affected by the crisis. the aim is to reduce the pressure on their public finances and to facilitate the implementation of projects by avoiding the loss of funds remaining available at the end of the current programming period. but to act effectively, we should rather question the absurd chain of budgetary gold rules that leads to recession. i am voting in favour of this so as not to prevent the release of this fund.
in writing. to address high levels of unemployment, including youth unemployment, and the increase in the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, a decision to increase certain national envelopes of the european social fund (esf) was taken at the european council in june 2013. we must therefore take note of this political decision and amend the regulation on the financial allocation of the esf to certain european countries.
in writing. the increase in the esf allocation to france, spain and italy underlines the importance of the fund for promoting employment and social inclusion and for strengthening the social dimension of the european union in the current economic situation. this also supports the allocation of a minimum of 25% of cohesion policy resources to the esf during the 2014-2020 programming period.
in writing. this additional €150 million for the european social fund will provide france, italy and spain with additional resources to help them to deal with the consequences of the crisis, in particular unemployment and social exclusion. i welcome the support of the european union for the recovery in these states.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague jan olbrycht, which aims to provide an additional €126 million to france, italy and spain from the european social fund for 2013. this is intended to help combat unemployment, especially among young people, poverty and social exclusion. in the context of the economic crisis, i can only welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation amends the financial allocation granted to france, italy and spain under the esf. the objective is to address certain issues affecting these countries arising from the final outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. it is also a question of remedying the inequalities generated by the british rebate, which penalises these three countries in the first place. as these appropriations relate to the year 2013 and the financial allocation currently granted to france, italy and spain under the esf has been fully committed to the union budget, the entry into force of this regulation is of an urgent nature. i vote for it.
in writing. this report supports a proposal for a regulation to amend the esf financial allocation to france, spain and italy to provide them with an additional envelope to compensate for the inequalities generated by the uk rebate in the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. this additional appropriation for 2013 will be used to support the fight against unemployment (especially youth unemployment), poverty and social exclusion in these countries. the commission has already decided to grant a loan of ecu 83 million to france alone. i support this proposal and will be particularly vigilant to ensure that these additional appropriations are specifically allocated to the most deprived areas.
in writing. i have approved this new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) with kiribati. it provides for fishing opportunities in kiribati's territorial waters for spanish, french and portuguese vessels. as kiribati has virtually no resources other than fishing activities, it is appropriate to provide guidance for the action of european vessels and, in particular, to grant a financial contribution to the republic of kiribati in return.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new protocol allowing access to the fishing zones of kiribati for several tuna fleets of the european union, including spanish, french and portuguese fleets until 15 september 2015. the last joint commission meeting, involving the european commission, the government of kiribati and the european parliament as observers, concluded that the agreement was mutually beneficial.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lövin report authorising the european fleet to fish in the exclusive economic zone of kiribati. by ensuring the sustainable exploitation of tuna resources, this agreement respects international conventions and satisfies both parties - the european union and kiribati. the fisheries sector in kiribati is supported. a financial envelope of eur 350 000 is allocated for the sectoral development of small-scale fisheries in kiribati.
in writing. i support the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and kiribati: the first beneficiaries of such an agreement are european fishermen, and i welcome the fact that it respects our ambitions for sustainable fisheries. the concerns about tuna fishing will need to be given special attention, but i am hopeful that the european union and kiribati will manage to have a partnership that is both sustainable and mutually beneficial.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague isabella lövin, which sets out a new protocol for access to the fishing areas of kiribati for european fleets until 2015. the protocol is supported by the government of kiribati, which considers it to be mutually beneficial. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the partnership agreement with kiribati, the protocol to which complies with the conditions laid down in the framework of the wcpfc regional fisheries organisation.
in writing. fishing has become global. fish is not eaten where it is caught, and two out of three fish eaten in europe are imported. i do not like this model, i advocate relocating production and developing short circuits. participatory ecological planning work will have to be carried out. for the time being, the agreements between the european union and the producing countries must at least be of a high environmental and social standard. which is clearly not the case here. the democratic republic of kiribati has virtually no resources other than the fishing activities deployed in its vast exclusive economic zone (eez). by signing this agreement, kiribati would be in breach of the nauru agreement which coordinates the management of fisheries in the eezs and would deprive itself of its fishery resources. i vote against, not to participate in this pillage.
in writing. the report concerns the signing of a partnership agreement between the eu and the kiribati islands. the agreement will grant 10 european vessels exclusive fishing rights for three years in the exclusive economic zone of the kiribati islands. while economically beneficial for the european union, this agreement is very damaging for the sustainable management of fisheries resources in the pacific ocean and for the fishing capacity of the territories in the area. it is in fact contrary to the efforts made by the small pacific island states to manage the exploitation of resources and therefore risks altering the fishing capacity of certain octs, notably new caledonia, french polynesia and wallis and futuna. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new fisheries protocol between the european union and kiribati and i am very pleased that the european parliament has authorised the ratification of this agreement. it is important that the european union is present in the pacific region and, through this protocol, promotes the establishment of responsible and sustainable fisheries. under the new protocol, the european union will allocate €1.325 million per year to kiribati, for a total of €4.428 million over the three-year period. these substantial resources are expected to contribute to the economic development of kiribati, which is heavily dependent on official development assistance.
in writing. this report on the location of the seats of the institutions of the european union, which in reality deals only with the question of the seat of the european parliament, and which is based on an anti-strasbourg a priori and extremely questionable figures, i voted against it. this does not mean, however, that all debate on this subject should be opposed. there is a need for a real, honest, impartial debate on the question of the advantages and disadvantages of the localisation of all the european institutions. finally, it should be remembered that this issue is enshrined in the european treaties and that any amendment would have to be accepted by all the member states in order to be validated and applied.
in writing. i voted against the report on the location of the seats of the european institutions because it is, in my view, a symbol of sloppy, ideological and ill-considered work. under the guise of saving money, british eurosceptic meps have managed to gather enough support to ask for the location of the parliament to be decided by them, something that is hardly done anywhere else in the world! the member states decide. false figures are circulating about the cost of strasbourg: the parliament costs between 51 and 55 million euros a year, or 0.04% of the budget, or 10 cents a year per head of population! it is true that we must save money, but to want to destroy a symbol, and this is in france, for 10 cents a year is to forget what a parliament is. this report, full of errors and, above all, useless, will give the british conservatives the opportunity to boast that they have destroyed a european symbol. i am not hiding my surprise at the fact that french meps who are both environmentalists and centrists voted against the siege of strasbourg in order to reduce its environmental impact. the strasbourg council is the weakest of all the european institutions. in short, it's a bad report.
in writing. i voted against the häfner and fox report on the seat of the european institutions. this report proposes a single place of work for the european parliament. he thus called into question the single seat of strasbourg. under european law, the seat of the european institutions cannot be changed without the consent of the member states of the union.
in writing. i voted against this report, which caricatures this parliament and sends a very bad signal to the citizens: at a time when europeans are facing the consequences of the crisis, does not parliament have better things to do than to clash over institutional issues? moreover, this text has no legal significance: what a waste of time and energy for all the members of this assembly! the text is also full of falsehoods and dubious interpretations of european texts.
in writing. the treaties of the european union made strasbourg the seat of the european parliament for historical and symbolic reasons. strasbourg is the rule and brussels the exception. a change of the seat of the european parliament could therefore only be made by a unanimous decision of the council. in any event, as the court once again stated in december 2012, the european parliament has no legitimacy, no possibility to decide for itself where its seat is. the vote in plenary is therefore completely useless. moreover, in these times of crisis, our parliament would be well advised to focus on the real issues that affect the lives of europeans.
in writing. i voted against this text in order to defend the interests of strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. the alsatian capital is a city where the european dimension is very prominent. the council of europe has had its seat in the city since 1949, and the european court of human rights since 1998. if the european parliament were to be abolished from strasbourg, what would remain for france, the eu's founding member? moreover, the veracity of these figures can be questioned insofar as the ngo which published them was financed by a political party clearly opposed to the strasbourg siege. it is the lifeblood of an entire economy and generates considerable benefits for hoteliers, restaurateurs and other businesses. in one region, the bas-rhin, where the unemployment rate is constantly rising and is now at 9% (insee, 2nd quarter of 2013), the withdrawal of the seat of the european parliament would be a blow to the local economy. i cannot therefore support such a text.
in writing. the anti-strasbourg lobby won a victory today by getting this report adopted. the same lobby has removed the mention of brussels as the only seat it calls for. as if that would fool anyone! the lobby is happy to call the strasbourg sessions and the travelling associated with them a 'circus'. if there is a circus, it is the debate and the vote on this report. he claims to be interested only in his own seat, but is not interested in the existence of many administrative departments of the parliament in luxembourg, which are also responsible for managing staff mostly based in brussels. as anxious as he is to save the european taxpayer money, he should also, comically, call the commission to account, which scatters its useless agencies across europe like so many little gifts to certain cities or countries. yes, there is only one seat of the european parliament: it is in strasbourg. if we have to group together its activities, we should do so in strasbourg! and it is the increasingly localized nature of certain activities in brussels, with the complicity or lack of reaction for 25 years of the french governments of the right and the left, that is to be condemned.
in writing. it is for parliament, composed of representatives elected by direct universal suffrage, to decide sovereignly on the place where it will meet. on this point, the fox report voted on today is going in the right direction. i abstained, however, because it is essential to reconcile two different imperatives: on the one hand, to facilitate the work of parliament, whose interlocutors (council, commission and civil society) are in brussels, and to put an end to the extra costs generated by this monthly travel. on the other hand, we must preserve the symbolic dimension of strasbourg. the travel of members could be stopped, but for ten years the money saved would be sufficient, for example, to finance an independent european foundation responsible for organising in strasbourg, in the european parliament, a european forum for debates and the confrontation of ideas for all civil society: young people, elected representatives, trade unionists, ngos... its purpose would be to advance work and reflection on the history of europe, the rapprochement of the peoples of europe and europe's role in the world.
in writing. i rejected this report, which is a legitimate attack on the strasbourg seat, when its mandate should have covered the seats of all the european institutions. this own-initiative report is based on erroneous reasoning, arguing that parliaments should be able to decide on their seats, a situation which is unknown in comparative law and which could lead to a change of seat, at the discretion of the political majorities. it also draws a line through the history of european construction, at a time when memory is more than necessary in the face of europe's worrying evolution towards nationalism and other forms of extremism. finally, the argument that this type of report could help to combat the prevailing euroscepticism seems to me to be more than fallacious, because this euroscepticism has its roots in much deeper causes than the mere question of the seat of the parliament in strasbourg. at a time when poverty and misery are increasing all over europe, our role as parliamentarians is much more to be concerned with finding solutions to get back on the path to growth rather than wasting our time in this kind of fruitless polemics.
in writing. i must express my dismay after the vote on the report on the seat of the eu institutions, which was hijacked by the supporters of the single seat of the european parliament, opposed to strasbourg. i am surprised that members of parliament spend so much time on this subject when citizens are asking them to mobilize their forces to fight unemployment, save businesses and restore the economy. these mps do not advocate for the institutions and contribute to increasingly disconnecting them from their citizens. i do not forget that this campaign of slander, lies and the like is being carried out mainly by british members of parliament whose critical views of the european project are well known and not in keeping with the original ambitions of the founding fathers. i am afraid that by attacking the symbol of europe, the european project is gradually being deconstructed and that in the end we are playing into the hands of those who do not really like europe.
in writing. i strongly opposed the report by my colleagues ashley fox and gerald häfner. the text contains serious legal errors which clearly call into question the drafting of this own-initiative report. paragraph 4 requiring that parliament may decide on its seat and internal organisation is unfounded. the seats of the institutions are fixed by the treaties and the geographical definition of the seat of the parliament is contained in protocol no 6 to the treaty of lisbon. this text is a danger to the legitimacy of the european parliament and the european union, given its violent attack on the only institution directly elected by and accountable to the european citizens. politically, this report is a manoeuvre to try to make the siege of strasbourg disappear. i totally regret the adoption of this text.
in writing. - in a context of economic crisis and of the tarnishing of the image of the european union, the issue of the european parliament's dual institutional seat must be resolved immediately. the waste of politics is no longer acceptable, all the more so in the face of public opinion which is demanding from its representative class an attitude conscious of the reality of the crisis in which it lives. we therefore strongly urge once again that the waste of the european parliament's two seats be stopped and that the only place of work be the belgian capital.
in writing. as rapporteur for the epp group on the question of the seat of the institutions, i regretted the outcome of the vote in plenary. a large majority of members adopted the report, which was actually rejected in strasbourg. the usual opponents of the parliament's seat in strasbourg have shown intellectual dishonesty by using incorrect, outdated and controversial figures on costs and carbon balance to denigrate strasbourg. the use of the principle that meps should choose their own seat has been the screen behind which the opponents of the strasbourg seat have hidden themselves in order to attack the institutional seat. but this principle does not exist anywhere, and only in agreement with the european council could a revision of the treaties be considered, which is necessary for any change in the seat of the parliament, as well as for any change in the seats of other european institutions. the text is therefore merely an own-initiative report which does not have the force of law, but it has become a political object which must encourage us, as french people, to redouble our efforts to preserve the seat of our european institution on our national territory.
in writing. the report explains that parliament should have only one seat, and that it should have the right to decide on its working arrangements, including when and where it meets. the report also calls for the european parliament to be consulted on any changes to the seat or workplace which require amendment of the treaty and the consent of the member states. the question of the seat of the institutions is an old one, and that of the european parliament is a subject of constant debate. the seat of the parliament has been the subject of judgments of the court of justice of the european communities, guaranteeing the right of member states to set sessions in strasbourg, but highlighting the disadvantages of the plurality of workplaces. the location of the european institutions is the result of negotiations between the member states, which have thus defined strasbourg as the seat of the parliament, just as the seat of the ecb has been fixed in frankfurt, or the european agencies in different capitals. to return to the seat in strasbourg is to return to that allocation which is the result of compromise between states at the expense of strasbourg. that is why i voted against it, as did a large majority of french meps.
in writing. with this report, a british conservative and a german green party join forces to propose abolishing the strasbourg seat of the european parliament by amending the european treaties. under the guise of good management, their report is a crude anti-french operation, and therefore anti-european. they also fail to take account of the symbolic dimension of the city of strasbourg in europe. nor is it legitimate for france to host at least one of the eu institutions when belgium has four, luxembourg three, and germany and the netherlands each one... in this connection, the report 'decides not to make any recommendations as to the seats of the other institutions of the union'. only strasbourg is concerned. this is yet another demonstration of the hostility of liberals of all stripes against the republican identity of france in europe, conceived on a regional and feudal model. i vote against it.
in writing. i have of course voted against such a report which contains many wrong figures and legal and political inaccuracies. this report, which was to cover the seats of all the institutions of the european union, focuses solely on the seat of the european parliament. while the european parliament's sole seat is strasbourg, as is very clearly stated in the treaties, the authors of this report want - without however mentioning it explicitly - the entire european parliament to move permanently to brussels. this report ignores the symbol of strasbourg for the construction of europe and proposes that the european parliament should be able to decide where its seat is, whereas in the member states no parliament has this power. changing the seats of the institutions requires a change in the treaties which requires the unanimity of the member states. finally, this report flouts the recent decision of the court of justice of the european union which clearly states that the seat of the parliament is in strasbourg. for all these reasons, i have opposed the adoption of this report by the european parliament.
in writing. i deplore the spectacle offered by a majority of this parliament, which is discrediting itself by adopting a biased report on the fixing of the seats of the european institutions. this text has been diverted from its purpose and has served as a platform for those opposed to the european parliament's official seat in strasbourg. it is disappointing that such an attack on the symbol of franco-german peace should raise doubts in the minds of european citizens about its usefulness. do we really want a europe that is turned towards itself in its ivory tower in brussels? and what has happened to respect for our founding treaties, which establish the legitimacy of strasbourg to host the 12 annual plenary sessions? i do not accept the intellectual dishonesty and the manipulation of figures which have underpinned a deplorable attempt to wipe the strasbourg parliament off the map. for these reasons i voted against this report, which should never have been published. in the eyes of the french and the europeans, strasbourg remains the capital of europe, the manifestation of franco-german reconciliation and the guarantee of a european union that is not in the midst of brussels.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am pleased to have the opportunity to participate in this important debate on horizon 2020. research and innovation are at the heart of our policies to bring europe back to a path of growth and sustainable development. economic recovery depends very much on our developing an effective, knowledge-based society. the first pillar of the new programme ‘excellent science’ will support frontier or basic research, which constitutes the foundation for economic growth and future prosperity. in the context of a knowledge-based society, researchers will be able to work together and exchange and develop ideas that will offer solutions which can act as a catalyst for economic growth. there will, in particular, be a significant increase in support for the extremely successful european research council and marie curie actions. this will encourage high-level research and mobility for the benefit of european citizens. there will also be guaranteed support for future and emerging technologies and research infrastructures. the economic crisis has affected europe’s competitiveness. industry and smes in particular have struggled to maintain europe’s leadership in a globalised market where competition is fierce. horizon 2020 will also help to boost competitiveness. the new programme includes a second pillar, ‘industrial leadership’, to help companies and support business research and innovation, including key enabling technologies – such as ict, nanotechnology and biotechnology – and support for innovation in smes. smes are the backbone of the european economy, and horizon 2020 includes a dedicated instrument to provide support to smes in the area of research and innovation. this new instrument will help fill existing funding gaps, and encourage innovation. although we are beginning to emerge from the worst of the economic crisis, significant challenges in a wide range of areas such as health, transport and energy lie ahead. these challenges are reflected in horizon 2020, under ‘societal challenges’. these challenges are about addressing the well-being of europeans citizens. research in these areas aims to create innovative solutions which will enhance the quality of life in europe, as well as the sustainability of our economic model and of the entire planet. we have also committed ourselves to widening participation in the implementation of the programme. we particularly appreciate the efforts of this parliament to spread excellence and help unlock the potential for innovation, as well as to ensure that science becomes an integral part of our society. the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) will also continue to strengthen the innovation capacity of the european union and its member states by integrating the elements of the ‘knowledge triangle’ of higher education, research and innovation. with a substantial budget increase, five new knowledge and innovation communities (kics) will be launched over the programming period in three waves. finally, i would like to underline the importance of simplification. we have consistently offered our support to those in the parliament who have sought to simplify the programme. we welcome the emphasis on providing simpler rules – thereby cutting red tape and allowing those involved to focus on actual research. our negotiations have been intense, and i wish to pay tribute to the rapporteurs and their shadows for their tireless efforts and for their willingness to compromise for the sake of reaching a successful outcome. of course, my heartfelt thanks go to the commissioners as well. the result is good for researchers, smes and for europe as a whole. this programme will help shape europe’s future. it will help deliver on innovation which will be instrumental in securing sustainable growth and in creating new jobs.
content of the election. the uachtaráin, the hon. member of parliament, the hon. member of the air force, is more than a pleasure to be here today for the shuntasach debate on horizon 2020. the vote tomorrow will allow horizon 2020 to start on time in january, something that researchers and stakeholders all across europe are waiting for. but horizon 2020 is not just about research and innovation, crucial though they are. horizon 2020 has much bigger ambitions to play a major role in europe's fight for jobs and growth. let me first of all thank the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the 11 parliamentary committees that together contributed to this excellent result. a special thank you to the itre rapporteurs: ms riera madurell, ms carvalho, mr ehler, mr skinner, and the shadow rapporteurs mr glante, mr johansson, ms ford, ms matias, mr lamberts. the report is a very good report and i hope that it will be adopted by the council. without you these results would not have been possible. it is almost impossible to consider the reports separately as they have always been treated as a package, and they are a package! so i will simply focus on some of the main achievements obtained because of your work. on the budget, we agreed during the last trialogue of 25 june on a balanced budget distribution. i am well aware that the budget of eur 70.2 billion at 2011 constant prices represents an increase of close to 30% when compared to equivalent activities under the current mff. this is of course significantly less than the eur 80 billion proposed by the commission and far below, as many members have said, the eur 100 billion called for by parliament. however, we must remember that the overall mff negotiations were extremely difficult and that horizon 2020 is the only major area in the new mff to see an increase. the compromise still gives a strong signal concerning the importance of continuing to invest now in the drivers of the economy of tomorrow. from the very beginning of my mandate, i was determined to cut red tape and to make horizon 2020 simpler, more coherent and more accessible than its predecessors. thanks to all of your support, that job is done. horizon 2020 has a simpler and more coherent structure that will provide support at every step from lab to factory to market. while the current generation of programmes has lots of different rules, horizon 2020 applies the same rules everywhere. that means it's much easier to apply for and to participate in projects. these new rules are more business and sme-friendly and easily accessible to new participants. a single set of rules covering eligibility, accounting and auditing will apply across the board. the reimbursement of project costs will be much simpler with a single reimbursement rate for most projects. that means less paperwork and fewer audits. it is important that successful applicants can get started as soon as possible, so time-to-grant will be drastically reduced in horizon 2020. i know that this was a priority for all the political groups, a real horizontal issue for parliament. so who stands to benefit from horizon 2020? first and foremost, horizon 2020 will be good for europe's citizens. with its focus on delivering both economic and societal impacts, horizon 2020 will tackle the issues that matter most to people, stimulating growth and competitiveness, creating new and better jobs and finding answers to our biggest societal challenges. horizon 2020 will be good for researchers who want to collaborate across borders to find the solutions to these challenges. it will enable the world's best scientists to carry out risky but promising research in universities and research centres across europe, thanks to a bigger budget for the erc. horizon 2020 will be good for businesses that spot the market potential of the results of this excellent research because horizon 2020 will accompany and support them with new close-to-market actions. the programme will be good for industry, with dedicated support for ict, nanotechnology, materials and production technology. five public-private partnerships dealing with innovative medicines, fuel cells and hydrogen, aeronautics, bio-based industries, and electronics are expected to mobilise up to around eur 22 billion in investments, with eight billion coming from the eu. it will be good for smes which will receive close to eur 9 billion in research grants and will receive further financing through equity and loan financial instruments. it will be good for regions and member states that are currently lagging behind, which stand to benefit with measures to spread excellence and encourage smart specialisation. horizon 2020 will be good for all these different stakeholders and it will help them in a more efficient and accessible way with bigger impacts for taxpayers' money. let me just conclude these opening remarks by thanking all the members for their tireless work and support throughout this entire process. overall, our collaboration has been excellent and we have found some innovative and pragmatic solutions to any problems that arose along the way. your vote tomorrow is very important. it is a decisive step in launching horizon 2020, which will give europe's researchers and innovators many opportunities in the next seven years to achieve great things.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would also like to thank the rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and all those members of parliament who have shown great determination to strengthen education, research and innovation in europe. today, as mentioned by commissioner geoghegan-quinn, you have the chance to pave the way to the new horizon 2020 programme. this agreement will encompass two initiatives under my responsibility: the european institute of innovation and technology – the eit – and the marie skłodowska-curie actions. at a time when europe is severely challenged by sluggish economic growth, it is more important than ever that we find innovative ways of creating our future prosperity. today, you have the opportunity to lay the foundations which can contribute to that future growth, help reframe the structure of our economy, and put society’s interests at the core of our policies. this is a deeply positive story about europe that we should all be telling. the marie skłodowska-curie actions will have a budget of eur 6.1 billion. that represents an increase of 30 % on current funding. these actions will strengthen our support for researchers in europe by combining mobility across countries and sectors with excellence in research and top-quality training. in other words, the marie skłodowska-curie actions will build on the excellent progress we have already made. we have already supported more than 75 000 researchers of 130 nationalities since the creation of the programme and we expect to support another 65 000 over the next seven years. the new marie skłodowska-curie actions will fund industrial doctorates – programmes which require researchers to spend half of their time in industry – as well as joint doctorates and other innovative forms of research training that provide experience outside academia. it is not by chance that some 30 marie curie researchers took part in the research which led to the discovery of the higgs boson at cern, and the nobel prize in physics awarded to peter higgs and françois englert. marie curie supports excellence and it will continue to do so. the second initiative i want to mention is the european institute of innovation and technology. over the last three years, we have successfully tested the concept of the eit and produced promising results. by putting universities at the centre of the innovation chain, and by gathering all the actors of innovation – businesses, research centres, universities and local authorities – within structured and well governed public-private partnerships – the so-called kics – the eit is bringing about a step change in the way we address innovation in europe. with more than 352 partners directly involved across europe, the eit has already created more than 100 start-ups, around 90 new services or products and more than 400 business ideas which are still being incubated. by the end of the year, more than 1 000 students will have been trained in masters courses bearing the eit label. with the eit we are investing in the entrepreneurs of tomorrow, and in the capacity of europe to innovate and to remain competitive. with a budget of more than eur 2.7 billion, we will be able to ensure that the eit grows in strength by giving enhanced support to existing kics and gradually launching five new kics over the next seven years. we will make sure that the benefits of the eit’s work are shared across europe. in particular, the regional innovation scheme, spearheaded by the european parliament, will only strengthen the tools that the kics use to share their experience and best practices as widely as possible. finally, i would like to once again thank the rapporteurs of horizon 2020, and in particular ms matias, mr lamberts, mrs riera madurell and mr ehler, but also the shadow rapporteurs, for their outstanding work on these files. special thanks also go to mrs carvalho who, together with other members of the eit frameworks, have tried all along to strengthen the eit.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say two things very quickly, in the time i have, firstly about the challenges of tomorrow and then about support for smes. in twenty years, europe has dropped from 36 per cent of world production to 24 per cent. the industrial renewal that we all call for in this house and throughout europe requires support for the key sectors that already exist, but it must also be based on the emergence of new technologies which are - as we know - creators of products with high added value but also energy-efficient. more than 90% of the energy consumed by transport comes from oil, a limited resource that is harmful to the environment. so this is not just a matter of public health, but also of economic development. by providing €5 billion for research into non-fossil fuel energy, horizon 2020 is meeting this challenge and i welcome it. secondly, these innovations will only come about if europe invests more in r & d, but also and above all if it provides strong support for smes. without support, there will be no lasting solution to the crisis in europe: 11% of the horizon 2020 budget and specialised departments with their own budget are proposed to guarantee the programme's calls for tenders. this is favourable to smes and, as far as my group is concerned, we will vote in favour of it. if there is to be a single message that we must convey, ladies and gentlemen, it would be to ask them to apply very quickly for tenders, starting on 11 december, so that these criticisms, which are legion against europe today, can be transformed into an exceptional leverage effect, which we must pass on as quickly as possible so that europe's measures, when they are positive, legible and in the service of competitiveness, can be implemented as quickly as possible in the face of the crisis.
madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague christian ehler and all the rapporteurs, mrs riera madurell, mrs carvalho and mr matias, and mr lamberts. i would also like to thank the commissioners and you, mrs geoghegan-quinn. we asked for simplification and you defended it, commissioner. the commission is often accused of complicating matters. thank you and good work! let me join your ceo in discussing repayment models and in particular the proper financing of industry. as regards access to results, you proposed that public funding should allow for open access and you accepted that parliament could make its proposals, which you accepted. i thank you for this because, thanks to parliament, the results will belong to the participants and publication will be allowed. we are very committed to intellectual property and patents. we support excellence but also distribution throughout the european union. who knows where our future nobel prizes in chemistry, physics, will emerge? in germany, france, slovenia, romania? we must ensure the distribution of scientific research. we support joint ventures, of course, the joint research centre. we know that mankind will only solve these challenges through scientific genius and i hope that european scientific research will be at the heart of the 2014 european elections and that all political parties will support research - including, in the context of the budget review, the 2016 political review clause. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the horizon 2020 programme pursues three priorities: scientific excellence, the creation of industrial technology leadership and societal challenges to be addressed. it is welcome that the european parliament has added environmental protection to the 'society issues' of the horizon 2020 programme. the amendments by the greens/alde/s&d coalition will see at least 85% of energy funding (€4.5 billion) allocated to renewable energy and energy efficiency. unfortunately, the remaining 15% of funds will still be allocated to fossil fuels such as gas. the provision introduced by the council can therefore include shale gas and ccs technology. we deplore this obstinacy. as part of the horizon 2020 package, the commission proposed a revision of the regulation establishing the european institute of technology. the greens have asked for the total maximum eu contribution to remain at 50%, i.e. 25% from the eit and 25% from other eu funds (such as the structural funds), a request rejected in the european parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to thank you for your communication of 24 july 2013, mr commissioner, and thank you, mr minister of defence, for your support for a defence industrial policy, in particular on what we have proposed, namely standardisation and certification to combat market fragmentation. i thank my colleague mr gahler, who was kind enough to take up the proposals thus formulated in his report, because the defence industry has specific characteristics: long development periods, with considerable costs and an obligation to maintain systems in service for several decades, the protection of intellectual property in the public sphere, within the framework of the european defence agency, and scientific research at the limit of knowledge. all these documents will be given to the citizens for the 2014 elections. i have, however, a request to make to you, mr minister, that you please convey to your colleague, who is the president of the general affairs council, my request that he give due consideration to parliament, because i have here the draft agenda adopted by the general affairs council for the european council. it quotes the commission communication. it quotes the report of the high representative. there is no mention of the european parliament. do the heads of state or government consider that they can act without the european parliament and without european democracy? they would be making a grave mistake and a democratic mistake. the same mistake was made in december 2012. it's the same paragraph. i would ask the general affairs council, which is preparing the european council, to take account of the resolutions we are debating this evening. thank you for that. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". i thank my colleague paul rübig, who is always attentive to small and medium-sized enterprises. of course, i could not present all the proposals of the committee on industry, research and energy in one minute, and it is clear from its intervention that small and mediumsized enterprises must be integrated into the whole network of our industries. the commissioner has always been very careful about this. it is true that they have capacities that need to be funded and supported in terms of innovation and research, and that our networks of smes, in conjunction with our large companies, must be the defence industrial base that we need. i am very grateful to you for this question, because it is a very important point, and i did not have time to stress it in a minute, which the committee on industry, research and energy supports.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again debating the major issue of european defence, which should be the subject of a consensus and which can be summed up very simply: do we, europeans, want to be the actors of our own security in an increasingly unstable world? let us be clear: no european state, even more powerful militarily than france and the united kingdom, can face the security challenges we face alone. no european state, not even the most economically powerful one such as germany, can ensure the lasting prosperity of its defence industrial base on its own. no european state, however atlanticist, can count on the united states ad vitam æternam to provide us with the security guarantees we need. this is the reality of the 21st century. this is the reality which should logically lead us to take courageous decisions at this december summit. the heads of state and government will certainly be lucid enough to make this observation. the documents we have are good: the high representative's report is clear, the commission's communication, by mr tajani and mr barnier, is also very clear and offers interesting ideas. it is, however, to be feared that between the virtuous declarations of intent and a catalogue of technical, even technocratic, measures which are useful but do not give rise to a great qualitative political leap, we are once again not at the right place. it is not a question of ignoring reality or being utopian: we are not talking about mergers, we are talking about cooperation, we are not talking about a federal army, we are talking about pragmatic and intelligent mutualisation. we must stop waving fanciful phrases to deny the reality of our strategic downgrade. the speed of strategic, technological and diplomatic change leaves us no choice but to react, and the council offers us an opportunity we cannot afford to miss.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, mr geoffrey, my question will be very simple. i was referring to the phantasmatic words in my speech and i was thinking in particular of two words which always come up in your desks: 'duplication' and 'bureaucracy'. so what military organization in europe has nine rapid reaction force headquarters? nine headquarters that duplicate each other! what military organization in europe has 7,000 permanent staff at its headquarters? it is not the european union, i think!
the question is "blue cardboard". mr van orden, are you aware of and what is your assessment of the cooperation treaty between the united kingdom and the french republic on defence policy and scientific research? as you know, both governments, to my knowledge - since this has been the basis for the proposals that the committee on industry, research and energy has been able to make - are very satisfied with it. what do you think?
i do not mean a recall of the rules of procedure, mr president, but a recall of the application of the treaties. in the debate, regret was expressed at the presence of the high representative. i would have liked to have seen the president of the european council in this debate, because we are basically addressing the heads of state or government. the president of the european council is not respecting the treaty because he never reports to the european councils, which is contrary to the application of the treaties, and in agreement with the presidency of parliament. i have often denounced this situation in this house. i have an idea, mr president: why should the european parliament, which is closed after the european council of 18 and 19 december, not be able to respect the application of the treaties? why does parliament not invite him to come and prepare this european council the week before, when we are sitting in strasbourg? we will thus be able to have a political debate with the representatives of the heads of state or government; we are not in a position to do so, but we are aware that we do not have enough political relations with our heads of state and government. why should we not have a problem with the president of the european council on defence?
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee, mrs sharon bowles, with whom we have really worked hand in hand. this report concerns the revision of the regulation governing the european statistical system. its main objective is to strengthen the reliability of statistics through the independence of statisticians and the transparency of the processes. as a reminder, in this context - where the european union is still shaken by the scandal of the manipulation of greek statistics - we have, in this parliament, under joint decisionmaking, initiated a number of reforms of european economic governance in respect of which the reliability of the figures is necessary for a proper assessment of economic policies in the context of the six-pack. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. secondly, to give the commission extensive powers of investigation and coordination. thirdly, to strengthen the independence of eurostat by consulting parliament on the appointment of its director-general. on all these points we have reached agreement with the previous presidency of the council. that is the text which is being put to the vote tomorrow. unfortunately, the commission is opposed to this agreement, and it is using the powers conferred on it by the treaties to block the agreement by imposing a unanimous vote in the council. it has also helped to form an unlikely alliance in the council against the agreement, composed of delegations that want to strengthen the agreement and others that want to empty it of its substance. the council is now so deadlocked that the presidency has not been able to obtain a new negotiating mandate to continue the trilogue discussions. the commission considers in particular that the provisions at national level are too weak. however, we are going further than the commission proposal on many points, particularly with regard to the directors of the national institutes. the agreement for example provides for heads of institutes to produce national guidelines to ensure the quality of all statistics produced by all actors at national level, a step which is not included in the commission's proposal. the article also provides for gender equality in the appointment of heads of national institutes, which is again a step forward compared to the commission's text. there is no majority today to go further in the council on the other points, as some of the member states consider that we are already going too far. this compromise at national level is therefore the best possible one. the commission also opposes the presence of two members of parliament in relation to the strengthening of eurostat's independence. we believe that this requires, in particular, consultation of parliament before the appointment of the director-general and transparent dismissal and disciplinary procedures. these provisions, which the council is in a position to accept, are progress and the commission should not oppose them. eurostat is not a commission directorate-general like any other, it is the european statistical office, which requires greater transparency and independence. i would have liked to present a final trilogue agreement but unfortunately this is not possible for the reasons i have outlined. i therefore propose that you adopt tomorrow the text of the first agreement with the presidency and ask the council to take a position. we need progress in parliament to break the impasse in which the negotiations are now, and i stand ready to resume the negotiations immediately after the vote. the european statistical system is based on cooperation and not coercion: it is up to the commission to convince the member states to move gradually towards an ever more transparent and independent system. if the negotiations were to fail because of the commission's blockage, it would be a major political failure for the commission, which would lose its leadership role in the european statistical system. i have no doubt that the commission will be constructive and i hope that i can count on it as a partner in defending the general european interest.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, you are right to say that things are dragging on, and yet our objectives - as you have just pointed out - are not very far off. an agreement was reached with the council, the other co-legislator, on 1 july, almost six months ago. the commission's role is to facilitate the work of the co-legislators. so i don't understand why things are still dragging on. i hope that parliament will send a strong signal tomorrow and that the commission will take this signal into account in its proposals, because the negotiations will continue and i hope that they will be concluded very quickly.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, jutta steinruck, who has enabled us to complete the first social programme for the period 2014-2020. this programme has several challenges. the major challenge is to have a social programme capable of providing practical support for action in the field of employment and worker mobility, ensuring that it is perfectly coordinated through maximum cooperation between member states. it is in this spirit that parliament has strengthened the eures crossborder partnership component, as by facilitating the exchange of information between public employment services in different member states, the mobility of workers and jobseekers can be encouraged. it can also prevent companies from looking for qualified people outside our borders, or vice versa, prevent young graduates from finding a professional future only by moving outside the union. the second challenge is to bring together three existing instruments into a single programme without losing sight of the objectives and the concrete actions supported by each of them. parliament has, in this connection, obtained, on the one hand, that the management of this programme be simple and well coordinated and, on the other hand, that a percentage of the budget be set to ensure that the priorities supported by parliament - particularly in relation to young people, and this in a transversal way in the three instruments - are well equipped with the necessary means. parliament will take particular care to ensure that this is the case. the final challenge is to enable the creation of enterprises by strengthening the possibilities for microfinance and by a financing system open also to social enterprises. i personally wanted to see particular attention paid to companies identified as socially virtuous by offering a tool available to all companies. with the youth guarantee and this social programme, where social innovation and experimentation will be particularly encouraged and supported, i believe that the member states and their governments will have in their hands the necessary tools to mitigate the social effects of the economic crisis and to allow a revival of employment and growth.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now one year since the european commission published its plan for a genuine and thorough economic union. more than one year has also passed since the european parliament, in its resolution of 12 october 2012, expressed its support for the introduction of social benchmarks to complement the range of economic indicators analysed to detect macroeconomic imbalances that may arise within the euro area. the european parliament can therefore only welcome the communication of the european commission, published on 2 october 2013, in this case concerning the future of the european social model, which - as we remember - president barroso told us was an element of europe's competitiveness. better late than never! without the insistent demands of this parliament and without the constant commitment of commissioner andor within the college, this communication would clearly not have come into being. the establishment of a scoreboard to identify social disparities in the euro area upstream marks a significant step forward on the path towards solidarity-based integration and the beginning of the necessary rebalancing between economic and social policies. we believe that these indicators should enable us to adjust policies to take account of the reality of divergences, not only in macroeconomic terms, public deficits and debts, but also social divergences, which are just as unsustainable as the previous ones for the future of the euro area. however, this mechanism obviously needs to be well designed, both in the selection of indicators and in their definition. it would be ineffective to limit them to a too narrow number of indicators which would not cover, for example, the issue of decent work, access to health or housing. we are surprised at the 25 year age threshold for young people's employment, when we have agreed, in the framework of the 'youth guarantee', to deal with the employment situation of young people up to the age of 30. maybe it's just an adjustment that needs to be made. but beyond all this, it will be necessary to consider how these indicators will be used. what lessons can we learn from these indicators? as for their definition, we propose that the social partners be fully involved, since they have a say in how this reality is observed and what lessons can be drawn from it. we invite you to do so in a very systematic and very committed way. with this communication you have opened up, in a watershed, another debate on the question of automatic stabilisers. i understand that this subject has been discussed in this parliament too. but the figures are there and clearly, since 2010, within the euro area, as we know, the automatic stabilisers have been weakened. we will probably have to rebuild them at the level of the european union, and the path opened up by the 'youth guarantee' could be, if it were really financed at european level, a means of progressing towards a genuine european social protection. the introduction of this automatic stabiliser is currently weak at member state level, particularly in the euro area. commissioner, allow me to emphasize two of the questions the committee wanted to ask you. the first is how this communication will be integrated into the whole of the problem, as it is now on the council's table, of the move towards a genuine economic and monetary union. the second question is how the commission intends to proceed with the subject of automatic stabilisers and, in particular, whether it is possible to draw up and draft a green paper on this subject. i would like to conclude by saying that for some of us, it is clear that we will have to go further. but there's a time for everything. finally, it may also be necessary to address the question of the definition of a minimum wage as a fundamental element of a social dimension of economic and monetary union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating and voting this morning on the life programme, the only programme in the european union which funds actions to protect the environment. climate change is a growing threat, and the erosion of biodiversity is also growing. more than a third of species and more than half of ecosystems are now threatened, and in europe, where the pressure of artificial development of natural environments is increasing, the situation is all the more worrying because half of the wildlife is now threatened. in this context, the financing of environmental policies and local actions is of course crucial. this is all the more so as, in this period of budgetary austerity and the european union's loss of dynamism, the preservation of biodiversity requires investments that will have immediate, but also long-term, positive effects for all european citizens. the report by pavan sukhdev states that one euro invested today will be worth 100 euros in 2050. we can therefore regret that the agreement negotiated with the council is not more ambitious. however, we can welcome the work done by the rapporteur and this parliament, which highlights a number of positive points, three of which deserve to be defended. first of all, we welcome the regionalisation of the selection of projects, which will make it possible to finance them more efficiently, without national discrimination, contributing to european consistency in the strategy for preserving the environment, while maintaining a real diversity of action in the territory that constitutes the european mosaic. secondly, we welcome the inclusion of operating costs (vat), personnel costs (ngos) and local actors. these loads weigh heavily on the small structures and limit their range of action. local actors now have the expertise and know-how on which the success of our policies for the conservation of biodiversity and the environment depends. this measure must be effective. finally, the idea of an integrated project, which should allow us to cross-finance with other european funds, particularly regional funds, would - i hope - make it possible to take biodiversity more fully into account in all the policies, signals and ambitions of the european union. the life programme provides real coherence in the implementation of the various european policies and in the application of directives such as the habitat directive and the water framework directive. we shall therefore be voting on a programme which represents only less than 1% of the european budget. it is certainly too little, but it is fundamental for all european environmental policies. it is part of the solution to the crisis that is shaking europe, allowing us to revive the innovation of local jobs, the well-being and security of our citizens, but also the quality of our territories. that is why we, together with the green group, will support the report as it has been adopted and drawn up by the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i thank once again.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion on life in the itre commission, i welcome the compromise reached after long months of negotiations. since 1992, life has been a nursery for innovative experiences, a vehicle for knowledge and environmental awareness. it improves the implementation of european environmental legislation. the new programme is more effective with integrated projects and more adapted financial rules, but also more in line with the environmental challenges of our time (loss of biodiversity, climate change, cross-border aspects). i welcome the inclusion of the overseas countries and territories in this programme. i fought for my group, the epp, to support this element, which was decisive for its adoption in the envi committee and its inclusion in parliament's negotiating mandate during the trilogues.
i would like to thank mr stolojan for his very comprehensive report on the renewal of the fiscalis programme. despite its size, the budget for this programme was reduced by 4.7%, from the original €234 million to €223 million. we regret this, because this action programme for taxation in the european union is particularly important. firstly, it will strengthen the internal market through more efficient tax systems. the aim is also to combat tax evasion and avoidance and certain optimisation practices which exploit the shortcomings of tax harmonization in the european union. it provides for a system of regular exchange of information which, although not automatic, is nevertheless useful. it is based on transparent rules and operational means of communication. the rapporteur has rightly incorporated safeguards in the commission's proposal to ensure that the funds allocated to this programme are used in the best possible way. we have advocated the addition of an explicit reference to the fight against double non-taxation, in line with our policy objectives on other issues. the rapporteur has heard us and the report reflects this priority. we have also worked to define more precisely the types of action eligible for the programme, with particular emphasis on the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion. finally, as regards the ex post control of the programme, we have reached a good agreement to allow the evaluation to be carried out on the basis of pre-defined and quantifiable indicators. this is in line with parliament's strong positions on taxation. i am thinking in particular of the savings directive and the kleva report's toolbox for combating tax fraud and tax evasion. i would of course call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of this report, which is moving in the right direction.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by welcoming the members of the court and its president, mr caldeira. i would like to make a few comments, first on the timetable. it is november 2013, we will vote in april 2014: it is unacceptable that an institution of the quality of ours is so late, no matter how complex our organizations are. in highly complex private global entities, audit opinions are issued on 30 january following the year audited. we are objecting to the problems of translation, but 80% of the documents we receive are in english. so i hope we can remedy this situation. as regards the accounts certified by the court, i would like to reiterate my concern about the accounting of staff pensions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i do not think that this is the right situation, because it means that the union's accounts are now 40 billion in debt on own funds. i will conclude on the opinion of the court, which i cannot understand. the treaty requires a statement of assurance on the accounts and the underlying transactions. in fact, we have a statement of assurance on the accounts, but on the underlying transactions we have a favourable opinion on the revenue and a favourable opinion on the commitments. the problem is even more complex when it comes to payments: evidence to support the negative opinion and, finally, a negative opinion. it's incomprehensible to me! the commissioner says he disagrees with the error rates, when it's a contradictory debate. i would like an audit report to be drawn up in accordance with the international auditing standards for the control of public funds.
mr president, parliament has just adopted an extremely strong position on this matter. we hope that the council will now take this into account and that the commission will be constructive in this respect, because we want to go as quickly as possible to second reading.
mr president, this is certainly not the resolution i would have liked to see adopted. it is, however, the mandate given by this plenary to our negotiating team and our sherpa team for the next meeting of the sherpas on the implementation of a genuine economic and monetary union with a social dimension.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which proposes a regulation establishing a framework programme for research and innovation. this is the main proposal in the h2020 package. this report defines the three pillars that are the foundation of horizon 2020: pillar i 'scientific excellence', pillar ii 'industrial leadership', and pillar iii 'society challenges'. in addition, special attention has been paid to smes in order to facilitate their access to the programme, but also to guarantee them at least 20% of the combined budget of the 'leadership in generic and industrial technologies'. europe is thus participating in investment and in the industrial and scientific recovery.
in writing. i voted in favour of the riera madurell report bringing together all european funding for research and innovation. this framework programme focuses investment on excellence in european research centres. in the face of the major societal challenges facing the european union, the horizon 2020 programme aims at scientific outcomes and technological innovation. the competitiveness and growth of european economic actors depend on it.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text, which sets out an ambitious overall vision for european research, serving our competitiveness and jobs in europe, with particular attention to smes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which sets out the ambitious horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation, aimed at european excellence in research and development. i particularly agree with the aim of this text, which is to strengthen the competitiveness of industry in europe, while paying particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). this measure then helps to stimulate economic growth by encouraging the development of innovation in smes through a set of specialised and personalised programmes and instruments such as access to grants, tutoring and support services, or access to r & d networks and groups.
in writing. i abstained on the reports relating to horizon 2020, although i believe that research is one of the few legitimate areas of cooperation at eu level, such as the erasmus, iter, galileo programmes or the financing of certain transport infrastructures. the european framework programme continues to allow funding for research on embryonic stem cells. nevertheless, the commission seems to have wanted to give guarantees as to compliance with european and national ethical rules, as evidenced by the declaration attached to the legislative text. it even seems to want to take into account the citizens' initiative 'one of us', which has collected almost 2 million signatures across europe, but whose final validation will have to wait several months, and will coincide with the renewal of the college of commissioners, which makes it impossible to integrate it into the current text. if she had not made that statement, i would have voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' (2014-2020). the programme brings together all the union's research and development funding actions, with a total budget of €70.2 billion. it is one of the largest research and innovation funds in the world. this is an increase of 15% compared to the previous period 2007-2013. i am pleased to see that european funding is focused on smes, whose potential for innovation and development is crucial to ensuring sustainable growth in the european union. the aim is to facilitate their access to the programme's funds through simplification mechanisms and to guarantee them at least 20% of the pillars 'industrial leadership' (pillar ii) and 'societal challenges' (pillar iii). in order to ensure that innovative enterprises can fully benefit from this programme, a special instrument to support smes has been set up. this instrument will be financed by the allocation of 7% of the budget over the entire duration of the programme. in addition, a single contact point for smes has been set up to facilitate their administrative procedures.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this programme because, despite a limited budget, it will ensure a balance between innovation and basic research, or strengthen the mobility of researchers through the increase of marie curie actions. other highlights: the new mechanism, the 'innovation expressway', will speed up the marketing and distribution of products by reducing the time between design and market launch; smes will benefit from facilitated access through shorter and simplified procedures and the establishment of a single point of contact and a support process throughout the innovation cycle. in short, these are all assets for improving european competitiveness, more than indispensable to support the recovery of the european economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague teresa riera madurell, which amends the main proposal of the horizon 2020 package, which is based on three pillars: scientific excellence, industrial leadership and societal challenges. particular attention has been paid to smes to facilitate their access to the programme and to guarantee them a share of the budget. the report also supports open access to research publications that have received eu funding, while the results and data of research projects should be disseminated efficiently but with respect for the protection of commercially sensitive data. finally, in the field of ethics, research will have to respect national, european and international regulations, such as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. − the funding for the horizon 2020 programme, of around €70.2 billion over the next seven years, is certainly important for funding european technological research and innovation. the european parliament would have liked to have had even more money for this programme, but we are pleased with what has been achieved and that legislation has been adopted in a common perspective by including other programmes in the framework programme for research and innovation, thus underlining the will to proceed with a strategic approach. horizon will help to maintain high competitiveness in sectors where italy is still a leader and, on the other hand, to acquire know-how and improve in those areas which do not represent our 'core business'. the 20% increase in the share of finance allocated to smes, the heart of the european and italian economies, is also noteworthy.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a framework programme for research and innovation called horizon 2020, which will have a budget of €70.2 billion from 2014 to 2020. several european programmes that funded research and innovation have been merged in order to simplify the rules and to increase the coherence and effectiveness of this policy. horizon 2020 focuses on excellence in research and innovation, as well as addressing societal challenges and enhancing industrial competitiveness. we have identified three pillars for this policy: scientific excellence, industrial leadership in key technologies such as nanotechnology or biotechnology, and societal challenges in key areas such as food security, sustainable agriculture and energy. we have made it easier for smes to access eu funds by simplifying and reducing the time needed for procedures. smes will benefit from at least 11% of the horizon 2020 budget. i voted in favour of this programme, which will help to coordinate european research and promote innovation, particularly in smes, in order to stimulate our economy.
in writing. this framework programme for european research aims to strengthen the links between research and innovation. the model proposed is that of a forced convergence between research and the economy, of a system with the autonomy of universities (which must increase their external revenues in particular) and the contracting of researchers, etc. the programme thus aims to concentrate resources for the purpose of bringing new products to the market. research, particularly fundamental research, cannot and must not be subject to such a commercial and short-term view. i vote against it.
in writing. horizon 2020 is the european union's framework programme for research and development for the period 2014-2020. with €80 billion of funding, it aims to boost european innovation in order to move towards a knowledge-based economy. the commission will also be supporting the development of the european innovation strategy (eis) and the european innovation strategy (eis) to support the development of the european innovation strategy (eis). although i regret that the budget allocated is not larger, the boost to innovation is undoubtedly one of the keys to reviving the european economy and i therefore voted in favour of this report, while opposing the report on the conditions for allocating funds under this programme which are not sufficiently favourable to project financing in the outermost regions.
in writing. i voted for horizon 2020, which will fund research and innovation for the next seven years. with a budget of eur 79 billion, the programme is structured around three main priorities: scientific excellence, industrial leadership and societal challenges. horizon 2020 thus supports the work of research and innovation actors. i welcome the adoption of this programme by the european parliament and in particular the eligibility of the overseas countries and territories (octs) which will allow new caledonia, french polynesia and wallis and futuna to benefit from aid on more specific research topics.
in writing. europe's support for scientific projects is not just financial. by providing support, europe is offering much greater visibility. it is therefore essential that europe should support projects for the future. i therefore welcome the efforts being made to address societal challenges and to strengthen the competitiveness of industry, particularly towards smes. i regret, however, that this programme is only a supplement to national funding programmes. it is high time that europe built a common research strategy. this is also true for industry. it is true that old habits will be difficult to break, but i very much hope that one day we will see a european research strategy based on four or five major priorities. we are succeeding because many initiatives are now european by definition, transnational.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the rules for participation in horizon 2020 as it is the proposal for rules for participation and dissemination of results containing specific provisions for participation in projects or activities undertaken under the h2020 programme and rules on dissemination of results. the rules apply to all elements of the h2020 programme as well as, in certain cases, to initiatives undertaken under articles 185 and 187 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and to the activities of the eit.
in writing. the adoption of this text simplifies the allocation of funding for research and innovation in europe, to the benefit of all european businesses. the measures contained in this text demonstrate europe's strong ambition to remain at the forefront of innovation. i welcome the fact that we have managed to reach an agreement which will support growth and jobs in europe and will support europe's efforts to compete internationally.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text encouraging the harmonisation and simplification of the modalities of participation in the horizon 2020 framework programme. i therefore approve in particular the measure which simplifies and clarifies the financing of research. the report recommends that a single funding rate be applied to each type of action funded under horizon 2020 without any distinction between participants. in addition, clear and transparent rules for participation and dissemination also encourage the development of innovations in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague christian ehler which sets out the rules on participation and dissemination of results of projects funded by the horizon 2020 programme. a simplified financing model has been adopted, guaranteeing attractive reimbursements for smes and industries, enabling them to participate in the programme. an accelerated procedure for financing innovative projects close to the market has also been set up. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. as israel is the only third country participating in the european framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020', the european commission is obliged to negotiate a specific agreement with israel which defines the practical, legal and financial terms and conditions for the participation of israeli entities in this framework programme. we have learned that this agreement, still under negotiation, called the 'eu-israel memorandum', will not be submitted to the european parliament for its consent. today, thursday 21 november, the european parliament voted on the legislative package (five different legislative reports) horizon 2020 without being able to take a decision on the 'eu-israel memorandum' once it has been signed by the parties. we also know that israel refuses to refer to the european commission's guidelines in the eu-israel memorandum, which could make it difficult to strictly apply them from january 2014, when the horizon 2020 framework programme will come into force. i therefore voted against the ehler report on 'the rules for participation in horizon 2020', which does not explicitly require the full and effective implementation of the guidelines on the eligibility of israeli entities for all european funding from 2014, including the horizon 2020 framework programme.
in writing. in the framework of the 2014-2020 research and innovation policy, horizon 2020 , the european parliament has defined new rules for participation and dissemination of results for the beneficiaries of funds. the new research policy should be more accessible to small research centres, thanks to simplified participation procedures. from now on, a single funding rate will be applied to each type of action funded by horizon 2020 . the rate of financing may be up to 100% for research and development activities and up to 70% for activities close to the market. the eligible costs have been better defined to provide participants with better information. we managed to reduce the deadline for grant awarding to eight months, which was a deterrent for potential applicants for european funds. we have also defined a new procedure to support innovative projects, based on calls for proposals without a mandated theme with shorter grant procedures. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it clarifies the rules applicable to participants and facilitates access to european funding for small structures.
in writing. this technical text on the rules for participation in horizon 2020 reveals the true face of the research and innovation programme. under the guise of simplifications, large private companies will get subsidies at the same level as universities, which are already struggling to survive the lmd reform that is supposed to bring them new funds through the private sector. worse, as the right-wing rapporteur himself admits, the average level of reimbursement of project promoters will fall for universities, "the surplus benefiting mainly participants in the industrial sector" (+46.8%). of course, this encourages the capture of patents by companies as they will sponsor universities to do the research. i cannot support such a system of subsidies to large industrial groups and i am voting against it.
in writing. participating in a joint project with so many partners can often be tedious and ultimately frustrating. all because of the paperwork. it is therefore necessary to simplify the rules. nevertheless, i am glad to see that my political group has managed to avoid the worst. the commission was keen to ensure that publications and the results of european-funded research were made public. of course, science is much better off in a cooperative environment. but it is unthinkable that a scientist would publish the results of his research in such detail. it's his trading fund! so we have got publications, but we have got results disseminated more efficiently, while respecting intellectual property rights and the laws in force.
in writing. i voted for the strategic innovation programme of the european institute of innovation and technology. this is the eit's strategic innovation agenda: the eit's contribution to a more innovative europe. the strategic innovation programme (sip) is the commission's proposal for the eit for the coming years. the aim is to significantly amplify the impact of the eit's activities in europe
in writing. the european institute of innovation and technology is a key instrument in european research and innovation policy, and has the potential to develop europe's image as a centre of innovation and excellence on a global scale. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which will enable this institute to extend its activities and take on the full scale that it should have, in order to contribute to the influence of europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which will considerably increase the impact of the eit (european institute of innovation and technology) activities in europe. in particular, i welcome measures to strengthen and stimulate the growth and impact of existing kics, such as encouraging kics to offer a wider variety of education and training activities and to raise awareness of the existence of such activities. in this way, communication with our fellow citizens about this european institute will be strengthened.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague marisa matias, which aims to strengthen collaboration between the knowledge and innovation communities by facilitating the sharing of experience, establishing a fellowship programme and an alumni network. these measures will be complemented by the establishment of a system of monitoring the results of the institute and the communities in order to measure the achievement of the set objectives. this report will lead to a considerable amplification of the impact of the activities of the european institute of innovation and technology in europe, and i therefore welcome its adoption.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a development strategy for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) until 2020. we wanted to encourage the development of the activities of the eit, which brings together higher education institutions, research centres and businesses in cross-border knowledge and innovation communities (kics). these communities facilitate research funding, exchange between participants to advance research faster, and bring scientific innovations to market. we have stressed the need to strengthen the participation of smes in these communities. we also plan to set up new kics on the themes of food for the future, value-added manufacturing and urban mobility. the links between kics and regional policy will also be strengthened, so that research and innovation are integrated into the territorial development strategy. i voted in favour of this report because the eit is a very useful instrument for encouraging innovation in europe and for promoting synergies between scientific research and business. for 2014-2020, the eit will have 3.52 per cent of the european budget for research and innovation, or €2.39 billion.
in writing. the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) has been developing partnerships between the worlds of research, education and entrepreneurship since 2010. the work of the rapporteur, marisa matias, from the portuguese bloc, is geared towards the challenges of tomorrow, in particular the ecosocialist question of the sustainable use of the seas, water and maritime issues. the fact remains that the weight of industry in these research activities is too large. especially since they can fund this institute. as for own funding, it is dependent on the successful achievement of the objectives of horizon 2020, all in accordance with the bologna process and in an entrepreneurial spirit allowing for close sectoral mobility between universities and businesses. i abstain
in writing. i voted in favour of the report amending regulation (ec) no 294/2008 establishing the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the eit was established in 2008 on the initiative of the european commission as an autonomous european body supporting global innovation. it brings together higher education institutions, research centres and companies of excellence to achieve its objective through an innovative concept of cross-border public-private partnerships called the 'knowledge and innovation community' (kic). 6 new kics will be created by 2018. finally, a regional innovation strategy aims to expand innovation capacity. this is also the way to get out of unemployment.
in writing. with the new resources allocated to the european institute of innovation and technology, and above all with the reinforcement of the european ambitions attached to it, the measures contained in this text should make it possible to consolidate its capacity for innovation and to spread european excellence for research and innovation. i particularly welcome the strengthening of the link between its activities and those of the knowledge and innovation communities, which are key players in our ambition to see research become a real tool for competitiveness and employment in europe.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague philippe lamberts, who is preparing the institute for innovation and technology, which brings together higher education institutions, research centres and companies of excellence, for the period 2014-2020. it will play a key role in this by combining cutting-edge research, education and innovation through the knowledge and innovation communities, which will increase by 6 by 2018 in a variety of areas: raw materials, healthy living and active ageing, food for the future, smart and sustainable development, etc. in parallel, a regional innovation strategy is being developed to increase participation in the activities of these communities and to strengthen the innovation capacity of the centres of excellence that will emerge. i therefore welcome the broad adoption of this report.
in writing. with the horizon 2020 programme and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit), the eu aims to become a leader in science, technology and innovation, by promoting human capital. but here we find the same purely market-oriented conception of knowledge that the eu has been defending since the lisbon strategy and its 'knowledge economy', which aims to do without knowledge when it has no market value and thus favours the competition of the public with 'private sector' actors. the eit institutionalises more private-public partnerships in research. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted for the report on the competitiveness of enterprises and smes, which is called cosme. the draft regulation establishing the cosme programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes for the period 2014-2020 succeeds the current cip (competitiveness and innovation) programme, with the exception of the innovation strand covered by horizon 2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the creutzmann report which provides for more than €2 billion to be allocated to entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) between 2014 and 2020 through the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) mechanism. in the face of emerging economies, the union has a duty to contribute to the growth of european enterprises. with cosme, 60% of the funds are allocated in the form of direct loans to smes and 21.5% are intended for the establishment and economic development of these same companies within the single market.
in writing. this programme sets out a clear and ambitious overall vision for european smes, in support of innovation, competitiveness and employment in europe. i welcome the emphasis on highly leveraged actions, which reflects the european ambition to make the best possible use of the funds available, with actions having the widest possible impact. i also welcome the fact that this text really takes account of the diversity of smes, thus ensuring that the measures taken are as close as possible to their needs. this is therefore an important step in the effort to make the eu more competitive, not only at home but also internationally.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that we need to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainable development of eu enterprises, particularly in the tourism sector, as well as to encourage an entrepreneurial culture and to promote the creation and growth of smes. i agree in particular that the tourism sector, which contributes significantly to the union's gdp, should receive special attention. therefore, smes in this sector should be given special support.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague jürgen creutzmann, who is creating a new successor programme to the competitiveness and innovation programme for the period 2014-2020 and has a budget of €2.3 billion. the majority of this amount will be used to enable smes to access finance and markets, in order to facilitate the expansion of businesses within the union and in the rest of the world. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which approved the proposal for the cosme programme, currently the only eu spending programme specifically targeted at smes. with over €2 billion over the next seven years, it will finance and promote the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, which create around 80% of european employment. i believe that this is an important element which, together with the other policies and initiatives promoted by the eu in this field, can play its part in our economic recovery.
in writing. the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) adopted by the european parliament has a budget of €2.03 billion for 2014-2020. unlike horizon 2020, which will focus mainly on company creation and start-ups, cosme focuses on growth. these funds will be used for financial instruments (loan guarantee mechanism and equity mechanism), for actions to facilitate access to markets for smes, for assistance to member states to reduce bureaucracy, and for the promotion of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship training. the financial instruments will help smes to expand into foreign markets. i voted in favour of this text because smes account for about 85% of job creation in europe, and support for the development of these enterprises is essential to create growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes (cosme) is a new programme with two objectives: to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainable development of enterprises in the union, particularly in the tourism sector, and to encourage an entrepreneurial culture and to promote the creation and growth of smes. the activities funded by the cosme programme are: improving the conditions for the competitiveness and sustainability of enterprises; strengthening entrepreneurship (particularly among young people); improving access to finance for smes; and improving market access for smes both in the eu and globally. although the problem of smes is real and important in the eu, the cosme programme will not be able to overcome these difficulties. this is a report full of good intentions, but the amounts proposed are far too low and the systematic use of self-employment is not a solution for young people. for these reasons, i shall abstain on the cosme programme.
in writing. parliament's text makes the commission's text more difficult. thus, references to reducing the excessive administrative, financial and regulatory burdens on enterprises are multiplied. in other words, the idea of reducing business taxes and deregulating labour market legislation is being reinforced by parliament. similarly, as regards access to capital for firms, none of the problems in the commission's text are resolved, and parliament is likely to want to place smes even more in the hands of shareholders, banks and pension funds. however, it is a public banking centre which would enable smes to obtain loans at reduced rates for socially, ecologically and/or technologically useful activities. the capital market will only worsen the situation of companies, placing them in a situation of financial vassals, whether they opt for bond or shareholder financing. the provisions of the parliament's text are bad and even worse than those of the commission's text. i vote against it.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the cosme programme to promote the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union. this policy is an essential link in european policy as it will facilitate access to finance for smes, create an environment favourable to business creation and growth, encourage entrepreneurship in europe and strengthen the sustainable competitiveness of european companies and help smes to operate outside their home countries and facilitate their access to markets. with a budget of eur 2 billion for the period 2014-2020, i welcome the opportunity for the overseas countries and territories (octs) to benefit from this programme and that their specificities are duly taken into account.
in writing. this text makes it possible to adopt a strategy aimed at smes, while at the same time meeting their expectations. some €2 billion is allocated to guaranteeing loans, reducing administrative burdens, and facilitating access to markets and the enterprise europe network. although there is still a long way to go, europe is pursuing a dual objective: on the one hand, to make life easier for smes in administrative and financial terms and, on the other, to promote the "erasmus" type of mobility of young entrepreneurs. it's a victory for our political family and i'm proud of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of this cosme programme, which introduces a financial instrument specifically dedicated to the competitiveness of smes for the period 2014-2020. this funding was previously part of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip), which, despite its unflattering name, mixed the competitiveness and innovation strands. competitiveness will now be supported by cosme and innovation by horizon 2020. the largest part of the budget will be devoted to providing smes with access to finance in the difficult start-up and growth phases, through a venture capital investment facility and a loan guarantee facility. eur 1.4 billion is earmarked for these financial instruments, which will raise much larger amounts. it is essential to support our smes in their launch and i am delighted that our union is taking part in this support. the other three components of the programme will be to simplify the administrative conditions for businesses - this is what our assembly has been working on - to promote entrepreneurship and business culture and to improve access to markets, in particular through the funding of the enterprise europe network, which continues to provide advice to european businesses.
in writing. smes account for more than 95% of european enterprises and are a particularly important source of employment in our territories. unfortunately, they are also the ones who suffer the most in times of economic downturn such as the one we are currently experiencing. it is particularly difficult for them to obtain bank loans to finance their establishment or expansion. and when they cannot obtain bank credit and investors are reluctant to take risks, a great deal of potential for employment and innovation is often lost! to remedy this situation, we have just adopted the sme support programme (cosme). now, businesses struggling to finance themselves with banks will be able to ask for the eu guarantee to get the credit they need. and the youngest and most promising of them will be able to benefit from direct eu funding. in total, almost €1.4 billion will be mobilised to support 400 000 smes in the eu from 2014 to 2020. proof that the eu is putting finance at the service of the real economy!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which is a proposal for a specific programme which specifies and implements the horizon 2020 regulation for research and innovation. this is the only case where there is consultation and not codecision. this report was negotiated at the same time as the madurell report and the points to be emphasized are the same, namely: the definition of the three pillars, the budget breakdown, smes, open access, ethics. it's a good report for our innovation and competitiveness.
in writing. the aim of this text is to ensure the highest possible efficiency of the horizon 2020 programme, in particular through better coordination with the structural funds and scientific coordination. i particularly welcome the attention paid to the issue of gender balance in research: i am committed to supporting the increased integration of women in science, and the ambitions set out in this text are in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation requires a specific programme to ensure its proper implementation, allowing for the full effectiveness of the measures undertaken. in particular, i support the establishment of incentives open to a wide variety of participants and to the participation of less innovative regions to enable researchers across our territory to benefit from horizon 2020 tools, networks and funding. this is a step towards a resumption of growth in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague maria da graça carvalho which sets out and implements the framework programme for research and innovation, following its three-pillar structure and the principles of budget allocation, open access and ethics. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this decision sets out the research and innovation objectives of horizon 2020 and contains the same challenges as its framework programme of the same name. this report emphasises the participation of the greatest number of people and facilitates international scientific cooperation with africa and latin america and other regions. but the utilitarian view he develops is to do research solely for the purpose of bringing new products to market. the european parliament's usual schizophrenia is not to be counted, which endorses all the austerity cuts and then laments the effects. it therefore calls for the support of national and regional funds for european research projects which may lack funding. did they not just decide on a multiannual financial framework for the downturn? has not access to european funds for public research teams been reduced to the benefit of private investors? i am, for my part, maintaining a certain political consistency and voting against, just as i voted against the horizon 2020 framework programme.
in writing. strengthening our scientific research means giving europe the means to strengthen its best advantage over the rest of the world. because know-how and high value-added products remain our greatest competitive assets. however, it was necessary to ensure that the funds were used effectively. it's done today. i would like to welcome some successes which now allow us to give smes a better place, to increase participation in programmes and to combine the structural funds to complete the horizon 2020 intervention on the material and human aspects.
in writing. i voted for the report on european statistics because an increasing number of citizens do not trust european statistics. yet, reliable and accurate european statistics fulfil two key functions as a public good: they are the basis on which policy-makers make their decisions, and they serve as a barometer of the state of our economy and society and provide assurances to other governments and financial markets. the european statistical system therefore deserves special attention in order to make the targeting of our policies more effective.
in writing. the independence of statistical data is the key to judging the effectiveness of public policies, and an essential tool in the development of new measures. this is why this text is important: it aims to strengthen the confidence we can place in statistics by making them clearer, by making the process of producing them more transparent, and by putting in place the necessary measures to guarantee the independence of the bodies in charge of them. it is therefore a set of measures which are essential to the confidence which we europeans have in ourselves, and that is why i support this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of guaranteeing the independence of the statistical authorities from political pressure that could be exerted at national and european level and of ensuring high quality of statistical data. especially in times of economic difficulties, it is essential that users of these statistics can be sure of their reliability. that is why i am particularly in favour of producing easily accessible statistics which are regularly updated to take account of european realities.
in writing. i enthusiastically supported the report by my colleague liem hoang ngoc to strengthen the independence of the national statistical institutes, of eurostat and to introduce strong sanctions in case of attempted manipulation of statistics. member states need to have a new instrument, the 'statistics confidence commitments', to implement the 'statistics code of conduct' and to put an end to certain practices which have seriously undermined the confidence of all in the real health of some european partners. it is in this sense that the council and the commission, which do not seem to share these objectives, should nevertheless return to the negotiating table and join the european parliament's efforts to achieve ambitious reform.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague liem hoang ngoc. this report concerns the revision of the regulation governing the european statistical system. in terms of european statistics, the objective remains to strengthen the reliability of data, the independence of statisticians and the transparency of the studies carried out. one of the important points of this report is the consultation of the european parliament during the process of appointing the director-general of eurostat. the report was adopted by 517 votes to 20, with 65 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on european statistics, which make it possible to assess the economic and social situation in europe. some errors or political pressures in the past have led to inaccurate statistics, so we have reiterated the need to guarantee the independence of the statistical authorities and asked eurostat and the national statistical institutes to respect a code of good practice. national statistical institutes and member state authorities will need to coordinate better with eurostat to ensure the transmission of accurate data. we have also asked the director-general of eurostat to report to the european parliament, in order to strengthen the democratic control of statistics. i voted in favour of this text which will make statistics more reliable and increase public confidence in these statistics.
in writing. the hoang ngoc report provides positive elements on the evaluation of european statistics to meet policy needs and the challenges created by recent economic developments. it advocated safeguarding the independence of the national statistical institutes, coordination between the national statistical offices and eurostat, and cooperation with the courts of auditors. however, i shall abstain because, while i support the principle of the independence of the national statistical offices, statistics need a complete revision to reflect current socioeconomic problems, which unfortunately are not covered in this report.
in writing. this report amends a european regulation which strengthens the independence of the european (mainly eurostat) and national statistical services to address the fraud and manipulation of statistics recently observed. the report recommends that european statistics be produced in the economic and social fields as a whole and not just for the data needed for budgetary surveillance under the stability pact. for example, he advocates the excellent idea that statistics on private debt should be published in the same way as those on public debt. the increased powers given to the commission to investigate possible statistical manipulation by member states are much more questionable, as are the proposed european fines. national administrative and judicial sanctions exist and could be strengthened rather than inventing a new european enforcement apparatus in the hands of the commission. applied in the context of the troika's austerity plans, these new powers of investigation and sanction could seriously undermine the sovereignty of states. i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept this amendment.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on the revision of the regulation governing the european statistical system. to make good decisions, parliamentarians need reliable data, produced in a transparent manner and by independent statisticians. this text makes three improvements. it reinforces the code of conduct by commitments between the commission and the member states. it gives the commission extensive investigative and coordination powers. it improves the independence of eurostat by consulting parliament on the appointment of its director-general. i regret the commission's resistance, however. eurostat is the european statistical office and requires greater transparency and independence. unfortunately, the commission is opposed to parliament's demands and is trampling on its prerogatives. yet the memory of the emergence of the sovereign debt crisis persists and reminds us of the long way to go. a number of reforms to european economic governance are needed for a proper assessment of economic policies under the six-pack.
in writing. progress, eures and the microfinance facility: these three tools are now grouped together in a single programme for the period 2014-2020. the programme for employment and social innovation is part of the context of the crises we are experiencing. the idea is to support actions to increase social innovation, notably through experimentation with social policies, but also to develop the eures network to become a real european employment service and to encourage social entrepreneurship through easier access to finance. the grouping of three social instruments under one programme should allow for better coordination and thus greater efficiency in supporting those on the ground and those seeking employment or setting up a business.
in writing. as rapporteur for the epp group on this issue and having actively participated in all the negotiating meetings with the council, i voted in favour of this first european social programme for the period 2014-2020. this programme will provide practical support for actions in the field of employment and the mobility of workers. parliament strengthened the crossborder partnership component of eures to facilitate the exchange of information between public employment services in different member states and to encourage the mobility of workers and jobseekers. the management of this programme, as parliament has requested, will be simple and well coordinated, with a percentage of the budget devoted to youth-oriented priorities. finally, it should enable the creation of enterprises by strengthening the possibilities of microfinance and by a financing system open also to social enterprises, with particular attention to enterprises identified as socially virtuous. with this programme, member states and their governments have in their hands the tools needed to mitigate the social consequences of the economic crisis and to enable, by supporting socially ambitious projects, a revival of employment and growth.
in writing. i welcome the fact that this new programme will enhance the effectiveness of three existing programmes for employment and social inclusion, by strengthening their synergies and their positive impact on europeans. i support the emphasis in this text on the importance of continuing to pay close attention to gender equality issues, which will be included in a new separate programme.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which fills in the gaps in the commission's proposal for the establishment of the new programme for social change and innovation. it is necessary to provide a clear framework for the establishment of this programme with objectives relating to clearly defined concepts in advance. i am also in favour of improving financial transparency by specifying how funds are to be distributed between the various lines of this programme.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague jutta steinruck. this report deals with the social change and innovation programme which brings together three existing programmes: progress, eures and the microfinance facility. the new programme is thus intended to support social and employment policy in the member states of the union. the report was adopted by 527 votes to 31, with 48 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the social change and social innovation programme, which merges three existing programmes. we have strengthened the cross-border dimension of the eures programme, which promotes worker mobility by allowing public employment services in different member states to exchange information on jobseekers and vacancies. we have also strengthened the progress programme to better coordinate member states' policies in the fields of employment, social inclusion, working conditions and the fight against discrimination. finally, we have maintained the european progress microfinance instrument, which offers micro-credits of less than eur 25 000 for the creation or development of small businesses, especially social enterprises. i am also pleased that parliament has obtained simplification of the management of this programme and that we have been able to reserve a percentage of the budget for youth employment. although the harmonisation of the social policies of the member states is still too limited, i voted in favour of this programme, which sets the stage for improved european cooperation in the field of social and employment policies.
in writing. this is the eu programme for social change and innovation. it combines three existing programmes - progress, eures and the microfinance facility. during the trilogue, the european parliament's negotiating team gave in to the commission and the council on the more progressive positions of the steinrück report. the text is therefore devoid of any measure that would actually promote social change. the eu's ridiculously small budget (€131 million per year) is a good indication of the eu's commitment to social innovation. i abstain, not to support but not to sanction what remains of the social ideal.
in writing. i voted for the life programme for the environment and climate action. life is the european union's main funding mechanism in the field of the environment. the priorities of the new programme include nature and biodiversity, energy efficiency and climate change mitigation and adaptation. the financial envelope for the implementation of the life programme for the period 2014 to 2020 is set at eur 3 456 655 000.
in writing. i voted in favour of the haug report establishing the environment and climate action programme (life). through this programme, the european union is establishing a mechanism to support european projects promoting biodiversity, energy efficiency and adaptation to climate change. this report balances the economic development of european enterprises with the protection of the environment.
in writing. i welcome the compromise reached for the life programme 2014-2010. by voting for a budget of 3.4 billion, an increase of 50%, the european parliament recognises the need for europe to support more environmental projects. the european logic will now be fully operational, since projects will be selected on the basis of their intrinsic qualities and not on the basis of their national origin.
in writing. with the adoption of this text, i welcome the importance which the european union attaches to environmental issues and the fight against climate change. i particularly welcome the opening up of the life programme to the whole of europe's overseas countries and territories, to protect these areas which are real reservoirs of biodiversity. the text specifically encourages synergies between european programmes and funding to ensure maximum impact for biodiversity and the environment.
written. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that integrating environmental and climate action objectives into all the eu's main instruments and actions is a strategy relevant to the eu's environmental policy. nevertheless, i regret that the budget forecast for the life programme does not live up to our expectations and does not allow it to fully achieve the objectives it has set itself.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of the environment and climate action programme (life), which will have a budget of €3.457 billion, or 0.3% of the eu budget, and will make it possible to change the way projects are selected for this programme, so that the quality of proposals is better taken into account. this strengthened programme will better equip public authorities to address the challenges of climate change and improve resource efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jutta haug which renews the life programme for the period 2014-2020. the programme is the european union's main funding mechanism in the field of the environment. the new programme for 2014-2020 focuses on nature and biodiversity, energy efficiency and climate change mitigation and adaptation. it will be based on a budget of €3.5 billion and will include a number of mechanisms to ensure balanced use between the different member states. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. − achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy requires a greater operational effort by the european and national institutions. with this programme (life), the need to achieve tangible results in environmental protection and climate change mitigation has been raised once again. the life programme sets ambitious medium and long-term objectives for both agriculture and industry. i believe that more effort is needed by the member states to implement them effectively and, on the other hand, that bureaucratic procedures for implementing them must be simplified.
in writing. the european parliament has renewed the budget for the life programme for the environment and climate action, which covers the period 2014-2020. the programme has been promoting investment in environmental and climate projects for over 20 years and has notably funded the european network of nature protection areas natura 2000. i voted in favour of this new version of life, which aims to make eu environmental policy more effective and better geared towards climate action. the establishment of multiannual work programmes will make it possible to use the funds more targetedly, giving priority to actions related to the protection of biodiversity, the rational use of resources and environmental information. we have been able to introduce into the new life programme the possibility of setting up 'integrated projects' which will make it possible to introduce environmental protection and the fight against global warming into other policies, in particular by mobilising other european or national sources of funding. finally, i believe that the simplification of procedures, in particular through the development of electronic tools, will make the programme more effective.
in writing. i am voting against this report which sets budgetary restrictions for the life programme for a period of 7 years. life has been one of the most successful eu programmes in addressing environmental and climate-related challenges. life has been running for 20 years and has been highly appreciated by local, regional and national public administrations, ngos, research institutes and smes. the budget allocated to life will be 0.318% of the eu budget, i.e. €3,456,655,000. this part is particularly weak in relation to the challenges and opportunities of the transition to a biodiversity-rich, resource-efficient and low-carbon society.
in writing. this text proposes a development on the margins of european environmental policy, whereas a real revolution in the field is needed. it does not abandon the liberal illusion, but persists in this course by not proposing any major policy of ecological bifurcation of our ways of life and production. it does identify some negative points such as geographical inequalities but does not offer anything convincing to solve them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also satisfied with the budgetary surpluses which the european commission is willing to allocate to environmental matters. finally, it simply bypasses the member states in order to promote a europe of the regions. i vote against it.
in writing. the life programme is an instrument to address the environmental and climate challenges. the objectives of this programme are very positive, as are the results it has produced in the past. i regret, however, the very modest amount that will be allocated to it, while the challenges it is facing are increasingly complex. the total budget for the life programme represents only 0.3% of the total budget of the union, or about eur 3 billion. i consider this amount to be a flagrant lack of ambition on the part of the eu to tackle the real problems faced in terms of biodiversity erosion and climate change. the ors are almost excluded from this programme and participate only in a very small way, although they are the hubs of european biodiversity. it's not justifiable. for these reasons i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new european environment programme 'life' with a budget of €3.46 billion for the next 7 years. the priorities of the new life programme are many and include nature and biodiversity, energy efficiency and climate change mitigation and adaptation. one of the major advances in this new programme is that our overseas territories, in particular new caledonia, french polynesia and wallis and futuna, will now be able to participate and receive european funding. this new opportunity is part of the continuity of my parliamentary action which led to the creation in 2011 and for 3 years of a preparatory action entitled best, to finance actions to protect biodiversity and enhance ecosystem services in overseas regions and communities. overseas holds more than 80% of europe's biodiversity, so it was necessary for europe to protect and enhance this wealth under the new life programme. so i am very pleased that this extension is extended to all our overseas communities.
in writing. since 1992, the european funding programme life has supported many good environmental protection initiatives. i am thinking, for example, of the eco-camps project in aquitaine, which is concerned with the eco-design of buildings in campsites, the aware project to reduce water pollution in languedoc-roussillon, or the reclionbat project, which is concerned with the construction of an innovative heavy metal recycling plant in the midi-pyrénées region, to mention only my constituency. at the time of the renewal of the european funding programmes for 2014-2020, i gave my full support to this new life+ programme, which shows the persistence of european ambition in the field of the environment. this ambition is first manifested at the quantitative level, since a significant increase in the budget is proposed, in favour of the opening of a sub-programme "climate action". the programme also creates new measures such as the creation of 'integrated projects', which aim to implement environmental strategies on a wider territorial scale and to mobilise other european, national or private funds. the success of these small initiatives should not make us forget the need to set up a large environmental project at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new european programme for financing environmental projects, the famous life programme. this agreement, which was supported by a very large majority in the european parliament, is the result of several months of negotiations with the governments. life was set up in 1992 to finance environmental projects and to combat climate change. i welcome its renewal for seven years and the increase of its budget by 50%, from the current eur 2.2 billion to eur 3.4 billion. but the most notable advance is in the philosophy of the programme. the projects will be financed by the european union on the basis of their qualities and not according to a breakdown by country. the explicit recognition of the overseas territories is also to be welcomed. they alone represent 85% of biodiversity in europe and will benefit from these funds. i am glad that the commitments made continue to give the environment the importance it deserves. the development of europe's environmental wealth cannot be achieved without adequate funding.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european life programme, a budgetary programme for projects in the environmental and climate fields. while the overall budget for the life programme is less than 1% of the eu budget, as requested by the european parliament, it has been increased from €2.2 billion for the period 2007-2013 to €3.1 billion for the period 2014-2020, an increase of almost 50%. the european parliament's battle against the council will allow more projects to be launched with eu support to safeguard biodiversity and protect nature. the selection will be based on their quality and thus their potential to achieve environmental and climate objectives. that's a good thing. the programme also introduces a provision on integrated projects aimed at improving and strengthening the integration of environmental and climate objectives into other eu policies. they will be able to receive other european funding in the context of the application of european environmental legislation. despite this paltry funding in the face of climate issues and the urgency of taking action against certain pollutants (water, air), this is a step in the right direction, which is not so common today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an action programme for taxation in the european union for the period 2014-2020 (fiscalis 2020) and repealing decision no 1482/2007/ec. this will allow the continuation of the fiscalis 2013 programme which was very favourably assessed by all stakeholders (in particular national tax authorities' staff) in the mid-term review carried out in 2010 and which the national authorities have requested to be continued after 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of the stolojan report on strengthening cooperation between customs and tax authorities in the member states of the union. while preserving the specific features of customs and taxation, the introduction of a single programme - fiscus - will help to combat tax evasion and will be beneficial to taxpayers engaged in cross-border activities. it will allow for more rigorous control of compliance with european rules on international trade.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this ambitious action programme for taxation, which should provide the union with increased means to combat tax fraud and evasion and to strengthen its cooperation with third countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which sets up the fiscalis 2020 programme to strengthen cooperation between national tax authorities in order to increase their efficiency and avoid obstacles to the functioning of the internal market. i am therefore in favour of strengthening the protection of the financial interests of the european union and the member states. i support in particular the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud, which are depriving the eu of valuable resources in these times of crisis.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague theodor dumitru stolojan. this report shall cover the commission proposal adopted under the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. parliament's work has resulted in technical amendments to the text, particularly as regards the definition of the different types of controls. the report also stresses that the specific objective of the fiscalis programme should be to support the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, alongside the traditional improvement of the proper functioning of tax regimes in the internal market through cooperation between participating countries. the report was adopted by 555 votes in favour, 27 against and 28 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the action programme for taxation 2014-2020, called fiscalis 2020, which aims to improve the efficiency of tax authorities and better coordinate the tax policies of the member states. the fiscalis 2020 programme includes activities such as the development of a european information system, training and other joint actions for tax administration officials. the fiscalis 2020 programme covers harmonised taxes at eu level, as well as mutual assistance in the recovery of tax claims. we have set as our priority objectives the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, in particular through increased transparency and reinforced controls on the use of tax havens. i voted in favour of this programme because i believe that we cannot effectively combat distortions of competition within the european union without coordination of the tax policies of the member states.
in writing. the fiscalis programme aims to combat tax fraud and evasion. these represent more than €1 000 billion in losses per year for the member states of the european union. i am therefore surprised that it is not proposed to increase the fiscalis budget more strongly and to introduce the possibility of financing human resources. i denounce the silence in this report on the european factors that contribute to the development of tax evasion: liberalization of capital movements, european transfer pricing regulation that allows large groups to avoid taxation, the eu's complacency towards tax havens and banking secrecy. the union cannot afford to ignore the austerity policies it decides on, which have a serious impact on the tax services of the member states and thus undermine the fight against fraud. i therefore vote against this text, which ignores the real means of combating tax evasion.
in writing. i voted for the report by my colleague mr baldassarre on the customs action programme. the economic situation and international traffic which benefit from the opening up of trade routes require greater firmness and better controls. in view of these new customs challenges and the need to protect citizens from the safety and security risks posed by international trade in goods, greater attention should be paid to the approximation and standardisation of customs control and anti-fraud procedures. it is through better cooperation that the fight against trafficking will improve. i would like to take this opportunity to express my full support and appreciation to the customs officers who are doing a remarkable job, given the resources at their disposal and the enormous task they face every day.
in writing. i voted for the baldassarre report guaranteeing better surveillance of the union's customs borders. intensive operational cooperation between the customs authorities of the various member states of the union is aimed at protecting european citizens and controlling trade. this report thus ensures that financial flows within the union are transparent. for more effective cooperation between european customs, i also support simplification and reduction of administrative and computer procedures.
in writing. this text provides the union with a major action programme for its customs. providing it with a more ambitious anti-fraud plan is an essential step towards guaranteeing the protection and security of europeans. this action programme will be implemented through enhanced collaboration with national and international actors with a view to more efficient cross-border cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text establishing an action programme for customs in the european union for the period 2014-2020. i particularly support the objective of this programme, which is to combat fraud and improve competitiveness, safety and security through cooperation with international organisations, third countries, other government authorities, economic operators and their organisations. i also think it is important to help customs to protect citizens in terms of the safety and security of products entering our territory.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague raffaele baldassare. article 33 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union allows the union to act in the field of customs cooperation and the customs union of the union. during the negotiations, parliament proposed amendments concerning the specific and operational objectives, the verification of the attainment of the objectives and the fight against fraud, and the allocation of the budget. a large part of parliament's positions were accepted, leading to a satisfactory final text. the report was adopted by 585 votes to 18, with 4 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr baldassarre's report, which amended the draft regulation on the fiscus programme proposed by the commission. the project combined the two existing programmes on tax regimes (fiscalis 2013) and customs (customs 2013) in line with the commission's objectives of simplification and cost reduction. i believe that the amendments proposed by the rapporteur on the operational objectives, their verification and the allocation of the budget have improved the draft submitted by the commission.
in writing. the customs action programme adopted by the european parliament should strengthen cooperation between the customs authorities of the member states and complete the customs union. european customs authorities must manage ever-increasing trade volumes, guarantee the free movement of goods and ensure the safety and security of trade. the customs 2020 programme has a budget of €548 million for the period 2014-2020. we have asked for this budget to be spent more on strengthening the fight against fraud. i voted in favour of this programme because customs activities are by their nature cross-border and cannot be effective without coordination and exchange of information between the various customs services of the european union.
in writing. this draft legislative resolution establishes an action programme for customs in the european union for the period 2014-2020 (customs 2020). this could be an opportunity to affirm an objective of combating fiscal, social and environmental dumping and a serious public programme for the management of goods entering the union by sea. it's not. the policy priorities in customs policy described relate to facilitating global trade and enhancing competitiveness. the only concrete measure mentioned is that of replacing the general shortage of resources (human and material) caused by the crises in the public finances of the member states by a strengthening of electronic management, which cannot replace the human competence of knowledge of flows, the capacity for physical control which must remain the pivot of customs work. the text therefore again promotes a liberal framework for international trade, which is opposed to an effective customs policy geared to the solidarity-based protectionism we need. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new customs programme. the stakes are high, since customs contribute to the collection of tax revenues for the budgets of the member states and the eu. our customs must also strike a delicate balance between facilitating trade and ensuring that goods from third countries comply with european legislation, which is the indispensable corollary of free movement within the european territory. with a budget of over half a billion euro for 2014-2020, it should further strengthen cooperation and harmonisation between customs administrations, and thus improve the fight against fraud, which is one of our priorities. the national it systems remain very different, so it was high time to harmonise and develop these systems together and i am glad that a substantial part of the programme budget is being devoted to this objective. on the human side, the exchange of good practice between officials will continue, to the benefit of better expertise and greater trust between member states, which are essential for the smooth functioning of the customs union.
in writing. customs are a vital element in the international trade process: they help to collect tax revenues for the member states' and eu budgets and support eu citizens and businesses, whether in the form of blocking illegal or unsafe imports or in the form of trade facilitation. this programme covers the period 2014-2020 and has a budget of eur 547,3 million, which will be divided between cooperation and networking of eu customs authorities; and joint actions and training. in particular, a budget is allocated for the purchase of computer systems: a practical detail since national customs often use different, and sometimes incompatible, systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of amending directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) as regards its dates of transposition and application and the date of repeal of certain directives. it is a significant but rather technical change in the legislation governing insurance and reinsurance activities.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague sharon bowles. this report concerns the solvency ii directive which modernises european supervision. the text proposes, in the light of the current negotiations on omnibus 2, to amend the dates for transposition and entry into force of the directive. this report does not affect the actual content of the directive. the report was adopted by 589 votes to 10, with 8 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the solvency ii directive (2009) introduced a system of supervision of european insurance and reinsurance undertakings. its aim is to ensure the soundness of the insurance sector and thus to finance the real economy. the report before us is purely a matter of procedure. the aim is to validate the implementation of the omnibus ii directive. this is in addition to the solvency ii directive. this is to take account of the new supervisory architecture for insurance, namely the establishment of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority - eiopa). this validation is essential for the application of solvency ii from 1 january 2014 in order to avoid a legal vacuum following the late publication of the omnibus ii in the official journal of the european union. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted for the moreira and zalba report, with a view to the 9th meeting of the doha round in bali in december. launched in 2001, the doha round of conferences aims to ensure economic development on all continents and poverty reduction. in the run-up to the bali conference, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the integration of the least developed countries into the world economy.
in writing. i am in favour of this text which emphasises development, the removal of non-tariff barriers and trade facilitation. i support the idea that the democratic legitimacy of the work of the wto should be strengthened, for example by creating a permanent delegation of the european parliament to the wto.
in writing. in this resolution, adopted ahead of the 9th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation (wto) in indonesia, the european parliament addresses the ongoing negotiations on trade facilitation, food security and a package of measures for the least developed countries. we have stressed the need to facilitate trade with developing countries by reducing bureaucracy, increasing legal certainty and shortening the time taken for customs procedures. we also called for the liberalisation of services, of which the european union is the world's largest exporter, particularly in the fields of telecommunications, financial services and electronic commerce. we have called for structural reform of the wto to ensure a fair and non-discriminatory trading system. finally, we have asked for better information from parliaments on the state of the wto negotiations in order to strengthen democratic control. i voted in favour of this resolution because it proposes measures to improve the european union's place in world trade, in particular by calling for greater attention to be paid to the interests of smes, which do not enjoy the same access to world markets as multinationals.
in writing. the doha round launched in 2001 aims to redress the existing imbalances in the trading system by putting the needs and interests of developing countries, and in particular the least developed countries (ldcs), at the centre of the negotiations. the resolution proposed to us has not taken account of these initial objectives. the aim is to contribute to trade openness, in particular by initiating liberalisation and modernising rules and disciplines in areas where the wto is less involved. that is to say, the plundering of the countries concerned. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on the 'doha programme'. the doha agenda consists of the objectives set out in the doha round of multilateral negotiations under the auspices of the world trade organisation, which was launched in november 2001 and formally suspended in july 2006. the aim of the agreement was to "correct existing imbalances in the trading system" by putting "the needs and interests of developing countries, and in particular the least developed countries, at the centre of the negotiations". this resolution sets out a state of play of the doha agenda in preparation for the 9th wto ministerial conference in december 2013. as usual, the liberal doxa is working at full speed - for example: 'the liberalization of trade is an important instrument to ensure sustainable economic growth and development'. as usual, they are not stifled by bad faith: at a time when the eu is negotiating a considerable number of bilateral free trade agreements, including the one with the united states, this resolution 'reaffirms its full commitment to multilateralism'.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan. the resolution draws the attention of the european commission to the coordination between this action plan and the european small business act, to the need to encourage and assist member states in implementing measures to promote entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship education, and to the need for an integrated strategy to reduce the administrative and regulatory burden on smes. in short, it represents what our businesses and smes need: attention, listening, funding, strategy and flexibility in particular.
in writing. this resolution marks the strong ambitions set by the european parliament to support enterprises in europe. i support the overall view taken in this text that supporting competitiveness and employment is not only about creating a favourable regulatory environment, but also about developing the entrepreneurial spirit of europeans, starting from school age.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to draw the attention of the european commission to the coordination between this action plan and the european small business act, to the need to encourage and assist member states in implementing measures promoting entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship education, and to the need for an integrated strategy to reduce the administrative and regulatory burdens for smes. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution to encourage entrepreneurship in europe until 2020. we have expressed our concern at the declining number of european union citizens setting up their own businesses in the current climate of economic uncertainty. we have proposed various support and advisory measures, such as mentoring by experienced entrepreneurs and the establishment of one-stop shops for all business support services. we also called on the european commission and the member states to step up efforts to reduce the administrative burden on smes. finally, we have asked the european commission to take account of the wide variety of business models in the measures that will be proposed. i voted in favour of this action plan because i believe that the current legislative framework does not make entrepreneurship attractive enough and that we need to provide better support to entrepreneurs to reduce the rate of bankruptcy of new businesses. however, these measures are not sufficient to boost employment in europe. this is why we have also asked the commission and the member states to evaluate other measures, such as tax breaks, to encourage smes to hire young people.
in writing. the main focus of the resolution is to strengthen the overall framework for entrepreneurship. it recommends reducing the administrative burden on businesses and spreading the entrepreneurial spirit through education, both in educational programmes and in the link between universities and businesses. it is true that it stresses the need to develop new technologies and to include older people, young people and women in working life. but all this is part of a general logic of reducing regulations and taxes on european companies and of adapting higher education to the needs of companies, a set of absurd concepts, an aberrant educational project. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the aim of this report is to present the european parliament's positions and proposals for the december european council on security and defence matters. it is an important meeting which will show whether the member states are prepared to make savings for the benefit of an ambitious european defence policy. this is the first time since 2008 that a european council has been devoted to these issues: it is therefore an important, if not decisive, meeting for the future development of the csdp.
in writing. i voted in favour of the koppa report setting out recommendations on the common security and defence policy for the european council in december. the european parliament has adopted a united, strong and realistic position on the future of the european union's common security and defence policy. for the european union to be recognised and to have an influence on the international scene, the union's strategic autonomy in security and defence matters is paramount. europeans must be the actors of their own security.
in writing. i support this report, which assesses the progress of the csdp over the past year and sets out our ambitions for the european defence council in december. it is essential to give the union the means to achieve its ambitions on the international scene, and this requires the establishment of a clear and comprehensive strategy which should be set out in a white paper on defence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of strengthening the common security and defence policy (csdp) in europe. i would argue in particular that it is important to strengthen the european defence industry if the european union is to be able to consider itself as a guarantor of global security. only with a strong defence industry will the eu be able to enjoy strategic autonomy in international security matters. it is time for the european union to exploit the various instruments of the common security and defence policy introduced by the lisbon treaty to strengthen its position as a key player on the international scene.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague maria eleni koppa. the aim of this report is to present the european parliament's positions and proposals for the december european council on security and defence matters. this will be the first time since 2008 that a european council will be devoted to these issues. like the december council, the report covers three distinct aspects: the visibility of the common security and defence policy in its operational dimension, its capability dimension and its industrial dimension. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the european parliament adopts an annual report to assess progress on the common security and defence policy and to make recommendations to the council, which will meet in december on this subject. we have stressed the need to give the european union real defence capabilities, by providing it with a permanent military headquarters, by transforming the eu's tactical groups into defence units that are immediately available and mobilisable in various crisis situations, and by stepping up support for the development of new military technologies. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a strengthening of european cooperation in security and defence, which the recent international crises such as those in mali and syria have shown us is necessary to enhance the effectiveness of crisis management and maintain france's position as one of the world's great powers.
in writing. i am against this report, which favours military solutions over conflict resolution. i would remind you that my group supports the disarmament of the eu, its separation from nato, respect for the un charter and international law, the strict separation of civil and military capabilities, and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. the report by maria eleni koppa gives the armed forces a central role in securing energy supply routes and trade routes and advocates further militarisation of the eu by calling for increased military missions and capabilities under the common security and defence policy, as well as 'permanent rapid reaction combat forces' (i.e. a european army). the report, which was published and voted on in parallel with the gahler report on the technological and industrial basis of european defence, sets the objective of militarizing the eu and strengthening ties with nato. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. this report is part of the next european council, which will be de facto a defence council, to which it is intended to contribute. this report advocates a pooling and integration of european military capabilities to the detriment of our national sovereignty and in favour of 'european military capabilities' defending an unlikely 'european interest' on the international stage. the report calls once again for support for the nato-concocted smart defense project, taking for granted that the eu and nato have the same interests. we demand a strict separation between the eu and nato. the report also calls for greater financial support for research and the defence industry. countries accustomed to limited sovereignty may be interested in this project. but the french have nothing good to see in this enslavement in the usa. i vote against it.
in writing. the international crises and the current budgetary difficulties are pushing us towards a europe of defence. to do this, we need to take realistic steps. the first of these is, of course, the pooling of our european defence industry to give europe the means to act and influence the future of the planet. for example, it would be better to buy european drones rather than american drones. these shared european defence tools would give europe the ability to ensure its own security and to deal with internal crises, those taking place at its borders, or in its vicinity. it is high time that member states take decisions in this direction to strengthen our common capacity to face the security challenges that our continent is facing and will face in the decades to come.
in writing. the disagreements over the conflict in libya and the purely formal support for france's intervention in mali have highlighted the absence of a common defence policy. the own-initiative report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp) recalls the need for coordination between member states and i welcome its adoption. it is based on three objectives. firstly, it is a question of increasing the effectiveness and visibility of the csdp. the second is to stimulate and increase the defence capabilities. finally, it is a question of strengthening the european defence industry. although decisions are taken by the ministers of the member states, the european parliament plays a substantial role through interinstitutional meetings and the vote on the community budget, which determines the budget allocated. the initiative report on the european defence industry, which was voted on the same day, also stresses that the goods produced can be used both for military and civilian purposes. many sectors would therefore benefit.
in writing. i voted against this report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. i cannot support a mercantilist and warmongering view of defence which gives the armed forces a central role in securing energy supply routes and trade routes. the logical consequence: further militarization of the european union - also aligned with nato - in particular through a request for increased military missions and capabilities of the csdp (common security and defence policy) as well as "permanent combat forces with rapid reaction". in the gue/ngl group, we will always give priority to the means of peaceful civil settlement of conflicts. military means must be used only as a last resort, within the strict framework of the un charter and international law and respecting the separation between the european union and nato. we can only regret the development of european policies in this area, which are now following in the footsteps of its most bellicose member states, france being the first among them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the technological and industrial base of european defence. the aim of this call is to strengthen the industrial and technological base of european defence in order to guarantee the strategic autonomy of the european union and to preserve the defence sector in europe, which is an important source of innovation and growth (400 000 jobs).
in writing. i voted in favour of the gahler report which aims to guarantee the union's strategic autonomy by strengthening the european defence industrial and technological base (edtib). the bitde group includes all european companies (research, armaments, etc.) which enable the armies to conduct their operations. the report calls on the member states to coordinate their actions, particularly in the conduct of research programmes, so that the union's operational, technical and capability sovereignty becomes a reality.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of the common security and defence policy benefiting from a solid technological and industrial base for european defence. i would argue in particular that the reductions in defence investment are worrying and have far-reaching consequences for an industry which is a source of innovation and jobs. that is why i agree that the european union should aim to optimise the capabilities of the member states when implementing its defence industrial policy. finally, i think it is also important to try to include our smes in the defence market.
in writing. strengthening our defence capability at european level requires first of all clear ambitions, but also a european defence industry that lives up to these ambitions. this strategic sector is a source of innovation and has the potential to generate growth and jobs not only in itself but also through its influence on other related sectors. civil and military research can indeed feed off each other and the development of synergies should be encouraged. we will only succeed in adopting an overall vision for the defence industry when we have defined a clear strategy for european defence, and that is why i support the ambition set out in this text to publish a white paper on security and defence.
in writing. for years, defence has been the first victim of budgetary savings. in france, the 2008 military programming law, like the one that is about to be adopted, constitutes a real sabotage of our defense tool, and therefore of national security and the defense of our interests in the world. it is a dangerous utopia to believe that salvation will come from the european level, by pooling human, financial and material resources, by creating a single arms market or the very hypothetical european defence industrial base. the industries that brussels has been interested in have been destroyed. and never has a combination of weaknesses made a strength. there are no free countries without national defenses. and each nation must put into it whatever means it deems necessary for its own interests. this does not preclude research or production cooperation or any joint action. but the less these processes are subject to the brussels bureaucracy, the better off we will be. i could not vote for the gahler report, much less for the koppa report, which, without saying so, wants a european 'army' to serve the non-politics of the commission bureaucrats who are subservient to washington.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague michael gahler, which calls for strengthening the european industrial and technological base in defence to guarantee the strategic autonomy of the european union and preserve a sector that is a source of many jobs and innovation. it also encourages member states to coordinate their defence budgets more closely in order to avoid duplication and to strengthen joint research programmes. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the technological and industrial basis of european defence to set out the position of meps ahead of the european council on defence which will bring together the member states in december. we stress the need to pool resources for military research in the context of declining military budgets in the member states. member states could avoid duplication of research programmes by launching joint programmes. the maintenance of military research activities is essential to guarantee the strategic autonomy of the european union and the 400 000 jobs in this sector. we also called for greater synergies between military and civilian research to enable the adaptation and commercialisation of cutting-edge technologies developed initially in the military field. i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes a rational approach to research and industry for military purposes in order to ensure the effectiveness of european defence despite the necessary budgetary cuts.
in writing. i am voting against this report which advocates the militarisation of the eu and a stronger link with nato. my group supports the disarmament of the eu, its separation from nato, respect for the un charter and international law, the strict separation of civil and military capabilities, and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. the gahler report stresses the importance of the eu's strategic autonomy (despite increasingly close ties with nato), criticises the ongoing fragmentation of the sector, and advocates the establishment of a european defence industry and a military-industrial complex. it also calls for the merging of civilian and military research and its funding, in order to use civilian capabilities and budgets for military purposes. it called for an increase in defence capabilities to defend european interests, called for the launch of an armaments policy and for massive investment in armaments and military research, and thus advocated the pursuit of a militarised union.
in writing. under the guise of 'harmonising european defence', we are being offered a purely market-based vision of defence. european defence is thus seen in terms of submission to nato and the financial interests of the large companies in the sector. the aim is to increase defence budgets, but only in the field of armaments, thus promoting the development of a european military-industrial complex (mic) through the establishment of a european defence market. i vote against it.
in writing. in the treaties, the union is a social market economy. in fact, we are still a long way from that. the social dimension of economic and monetary union is missing. it is, however, indispensable if we want european citizens to regain their confidence in the european construction. with over 26 million people unemployed, the european union continues to suffer the economic and social consequences of the crisis. with its communication of 2 october, the european commission shows that it is finally recognising the importance of the social pillar, but that it is now time to put it into practice. the difficulty of reaching agreement, particularly in the council, on all social programmes is a reflection of the lack of political will in some member states to move social europe forward. progressive social and fiscal harmonization is a prerequisite for 'living together' in europe. i therefore support this resolution, although i regret that its ambition has been reduced by negative votes in the plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i think that the social scoreboard proposed by the commission in the margins of the european semester is a good step forward for member states to feel obliged to take account of the social consequences of the economic measures taken. the analytical grid for the social data to be transmitted during the european semester together with the economic data could, however, be improved.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution on the social dimension of economic and monetary union (emu). in order to combat unemployment and reduce poverty, the european union emphasises the shortcomings of certain emu policies. i believe that some of the proposals in the report are essential to strengthening the social dimension of emu. for example, the important role of social entrepreneurship is affirmed and the relevance of the european commission's checks on member states' commitments to poverty reduction and employment is emphasised.
in writing. while the employment figures in europe are alarming, it is clear that, as we have been saying for a long time, the social dimension of the economic and monetary union needs to be strengthened. in the summer of 2013, almost 27 million europeans across all 28 member states were unemployed, of which just under 20 million were in the euro area. at the same time, poverty and social exclusion have increased steadily since the crisis began. beyond the goals of debt and deficit reduction, emu must take into account the social dimension and the vital question of employment. the european union must affirm its commitment to social convergence, agree on minimum social standards such as the introduction of minimum wages, and act in favour of employment and social investment.
in writing. the social dimension of emu is more than necessary for several reasons: not only to offset the effects of the crisis, but also to ensure a better functioning of the euro area and to reconcile citizens with the european project. that is why i supported this resolution, which approves in particular the creation of a scoreboard of key employment and social indicators, which would complement the procedure on macroeconomic imbalances. however, this table should be enriched with indicators on the level of child poverty, access to health care and homelessness, as well as a decent work index, in order to allow a true assessment of the real social situation in europe. this approach should enable us to reduce the social disparities between member states and prevent social dumping.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution on strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union. europe continues to suffer from the economic and financial crisis, with 26.6 million people unemployed and an average of 23% of young people unemployed for the union as a whole. it is important that the social dimension of economic and monetary union be taken into account and developed. however, i would like to emphasize that the formulation and implementation of social policies remains primarily the responsibility of the member states. the resolution was adopted by 387 votes to 64, with 58 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. this resolution states some truths about the effect of austerity policy: austerity measures have compromised the quality of employment, social protection and health and safety standards but this does not call into question the liberal orientation of the eu. the proposed flagship measure to strengthen the social dimension of economic and monetary union (emu) is to create a scoreboard of key employment and social indicators. it seems a little short... the social dimension would require a radical change in the political orientation of emu, a rejection of the dictates of the troika and the commission, and the establishment of cooperation between peoples. i abstain in order to encourage the anti-austerity passages in the text.
in writing. in this report, the european parliament gave its opinion on a communication from the european commission on the 'social dimension of economic and monetary union'. the very title of this text gives me a chill when we consider the social damage caused by european policies. the european commission advocates the mobility of workers throughout the european union as a model for combating unemployment. this means that employees must increasingly conform to the law of supply and demand like commodities. the majority of the european parliament pointed to a number of shortcomings, including the absence of social impact assessments of european policies or the failure to take account of public services and social security. but they could not help but welcome this social dimension of economic and monetary union. i was therefore unable to vote in favour of this resolution of the european parliament and i chose to abstain.
author. - mr president, 42 years after its independence, bangladesh is still haunted by the massacres which accompanied its founding. the current climate of violence reflects a political life that has not yet settled its past. the court set up in 2010 has reignited tensions, including by sentencing some political leaders to death. since the beginning of the year, 160 people have been killed in protests, making it the deadliest year since independence. the atmosphere is therefore more than tense. however, this does not justify compromising human rights: the judicial harassment of certain human rights defenders is particularly unacceptable. the gue/ngl group did not sign the joint resolution, considering that strikes organised on the basis of the demand for a minimum wage of usd 100 in one of the countries with the lowest wages in the world could not be deplored. we shall vote for this resolution because we believe it is important to call for calm and for the holding of transparent and democratic elections, the only means of putting an end to the cycle of violence.
author. - mr president, i should like to begin by saying: finally a resolution on the human rights situation in qatar! there are countries that obsess some members of this parliament. there are others who are untouchable, despite the human rights violations denounced by international organizations and ngos: we do not touch the friends of the gulf. we just heard it again. we have to spare them. yet qatar has been ruled by a single family since its independence in 1971. political parties are banned. the living conditions of non-qataris - who make up 80 to 90 per cent of those living in the territory and are, of course, mainly workers in the petrochemical industry - are dramatic. kafala, the sponsorship of non-qataris by qataris, is intolerable; the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. qatar has won the right to host the 2022 world cup on conditions that are best left unsaid, and the working conditions on the world cup construction sites are such that international public opinion is mobilizing. ngos estimate that up to 4,000 people could die on these construction sites, given the appalling conditions. today the european parliament is moved by this and i hope it will do itself the honour of voting for this resolution, even if we think it is insufficient. i would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the situation of a man sentenced to life imprisonment in qatar, which was commuted to 15 years in prison. this man is a poet, who was wrong to write a poem called "the jasmine poem", in which he dared to criticize the gulf countries. what a crime, my colleagues! that is what i call freedom of expression, which we are commemorating with the sakharov prize. that is why, through this intervention, i want first of all to ask the qatari authorities to comply with their words and to release the poet mohamed rachid al-ajami immediately.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i regret that it took this pharaonic and expensive world cup project, with its disastrous environmental impact, to admit that forced labour is a reality both in qatar and in other countries in the region. opening our eyes to the situation of these migrant workers in the construction sector is therefore a good thing, but it is not enough. forced labour is not just a problem in the construction sector; it is a broader problem that affects the organisation of qatari society as a whole. domestic workers know this: this exploitation - of which they have been victims until now in total indifference - did not begin with the preparations for the world cup. qatar has 1.350 million migrant domestic workers, the overwhelming majority of whom are women and girls, invisible workers. this is the situation of these migrant women, who face a labour code that has remained silent on this issue, who have no rights and no social protection, and are often kidnapped and sexually abused. fifa and our governments cannot turn a blind eye to this modern day slavery. they must press the qatari authorities to ratify ilo convention 189 on domestic work, so that these workers finally enjoy a minimum of social protection. on the other hand, the qatari government must guarantee to everyone, without distinction, the fundamental right to leave the country by relaxing its unfair and unjust sponsorship system. i regret that our colleagues in the epp group are seeking to prevent the adoption of a joint resolution and want to weaken it further by removing all reference to this system.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr sógor, as we had the pleasure of working together on the mission on hungary, i know your commitment to the issue of human rights. i would therefore just like to put a question to all the members of the epp group through you. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east.
mr president, i would not like to refer to the rules of procedure, but to the application of the treaties, as i am doing now and as i have done many times before. this session is coming to an end, mr president, and it follows on from a european council meeting two weeks ago. the president of the european council did not come to us, as required by the treaties, to report on this meeting which took place in the context of an enlarged conference of presidents, in contravention of the application of the treaties. i don't think it's right that a court like ours, which is called to do right, should disrespect it. i would like to propose, mr president, that for the next european council on 18 and 19 december, which will be on european defence - we have already spoken and debated about this at length in connection with the reports which have been voted on today - that we invite the president of the european council before the european council, since parliament is then closed and will therefore not be able to report on this meeting. in making this proposal, i find it regrettable that we are not respecting the treaties. i would also add, since we have a little time, that i do not think we have enough political relations and exchanges with the president of the european council. we have no such problems with the heads of state or government of the european council. it would be natural if we could have political exchanges with the president of the european council.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be validating the reform of the common fisheries policy, on which we have been working for more than three years. these two texts are the result of long negotiations to strike a balance between the conservation of the resource and the preservation of employment in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. we have put in place important conservation mechanisms. one of the main objectives of this policy is to achieve biomass levels beyond those that can produce maximum sustainable yield by 2015. we have also approved the obligation to land all catches. i would like to say that this will be difficult for the fishermen, whose vessels are not always equipped to land everything. the de minimis threshold of 5% will still allow fishermen to adapt thanks to a realistic timetable for the prohibition of discards. we want to sort on the deck, not the bottom. i am therefore pleased that the new fisheries policy allows for the financing of more selective gear. parliament also calls for funding for data collection and controls. we want measures for fisheries that are environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. the generalisation of multiannual management plans will also provide a long-term view of the resource. i would also like to point out that the member states are free to manage quotas collectively if they so wish. it is a long battle that parliament has fought to give this freedom of choice over the management of fishing rights. we have managed to avoid the obligation of transferable fishing concessions, i.e. the commodification and liberalisation of a market in fishing rights. the common market organisation has given producer organisations a greater role. they manage the marketing of fishery and aquaculture products and must organise themselves to meet the ever-growing demand. the creation of a single european eco-label will also contribute to consumer information, which is being strengthened by this reform.
mr president, commissioner, here we are, more than two years of work coming to an end. we have had a very heated debate on resource, on rmd, on waste, on ecological aspects, and we have ended up with - i think - some good results. however, a global approach to fishing may be needed in the future. the reality of fishing does not start when the fish are caught, but more importantly, it does not stop when the fish are landed. the activity is part of a global context, with, unfortunately, today more than 65% of seafood consumed in europe being imported and sold at lower cost in the large surfaces. the cmo has partly answered these questions by encouraging the creation of a european eco-label and imposing identical marketing standards on european fishermen and imports, but many issues remain, including the control of world fisheries and the social and environmental rules applied by non-union vessels. if we do not impose a minimum of import rules, we are putting european competitiveness in great danger. it is urgently necessary, madam commissioner, that we open this file by establishing a world fleet register through negotiations within the regional fisheries management organisations.
for the greens/efa group mr president, a few months ago, in february, this parliament voted by a very large majority for a new common fisheries policy, which is geared towards the protection of resources and the selectivity of fishing techniques. i hope that tomorrow parliament will confirm this vote, which took place in february. the first application, the direct application of this new common fisheries policy is in the regulation proposed by the commission for deep-sea fisheries. it is an excellent proposal from the commission which, unfortunately, the committee on fisheries has rejected, at the heart of its target, namely the prohibition of deep-sea trawling, which is a particularly destructive technique as the whole scientific community has demonstrated. we therefore want parliament to return to its logic and consistency and to reintroduce tomorrow the commission's proposal to ban deep-sea trawling beyond 600 metres.
mr president, we had three challenges, three major issues to be dealt with in the report on the large funds. firstly, to protect vulnerable stocks; secondly, to ensure that all species in the deep sea can regenerate themselves in a sustainable way; thirdly, to preserve jobs in the fishing sector. the adoption of the compromise reached in the committee on fisheries will enable all three objectives to be achieved. i, for one, will not betray my word. the partial ban on trawling and the sanctioning of an ecological footprint in 90% of the international waters of the north-east atlantic, the setting of quotas for all species, which are therefore more stringent than the cfp, and the mapping of vulnerable areas within two years have given us the means to achieve the environmental objectives we have set ourselves. but it is equally important to say that, through compromise, we are meeting our third challenge, which is to maintain a vulnerable activity in the 10% of areas retained for deep-sea fishing. that is at least 758 vessels, according to the commission's own impact study, and therefore thousands of fishing seamen who could continue to operate. in these unemployment times, the loss of these jobs would drive some of our regions in scotland, ireland, france, spain and portugal over the edge.
mr president, i would like to speak tonight on behalf of wildlife and deep-sea fish to ask this house to put an end to an unfair and particularly destructive practice, deep-sea trawling, trawling over 600 metres. deep-sea marine plant and animal communities are very diverse and rich, but they are especially fragile and vulnerable. everything is slower in deep water: movement, reproduction, evolution. the recovery of a population of extinct species can take decades or even hundreds of years. in less than a decade, deep-sea fishing has depleted more than 80% of the deep-sea fishery in the north-east atlantic. it is not doing the fishermen or the citizens of this planet any service to allow this over-subsidised, non-selective and devastating fishing practice on our seabed. for every two to five commercially viable species, hundreds more are sacrificed, needlessly destroyed. i therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the amendment tabled to end and ban deep-sea trawl fishing, in order to contribute to the coherence of an ambitious reform of our common fisheries policy.
madam president, i am one of those who believe that mr arsenis' compromise provides the means to preserve the environment, but also economic activity and hence jobs. the freezing of the footprint, for example, allows the preservation of ecosystems, whether we like it or not, and the sanctification of all other areas. the presence of observers on all vessels will also make it possible to verify and guarantee the fairness of everything that happens. we also give ourselves four years to decide whether or not to continue this fishing. i therefore believe very sincerely that this compromise is a good compromise and i hope that tomorrow common sense will prevail and that parliament will vote in favour of it.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco, which both parties have been waiting for for so long, is finally put to the vote in the european parliament. the new protocol to the agreement, initialled on 24 july, allows 126 eu vessels to fish for surplus in moroccan waters thanks to the financial contribution of the agreement, which amounts to €30 million. half of this financial contribution is for access to water and the other half is for the development of the moroccan fisheries sector. the kingdom of morocco shall be required to submit regular detailed reports on the use of the financial contribution for the development of the fisheries sector. i would like to remind you that this agreement is excellent because it is mutually beneficial. all recommendations of the european parliament's resolution of 14 december 2011 have been taken into account. this agreement is sustainable, the fishing zones have been modified to meet morocco's requirements and the opinions of the scientists of the moroccan research institute have been taken into account. the quotas for pelagic fisheries have not been increased. the agreement also contains an exclusivity clause, which avoids private licences over which the european union has no visibility. it also contains a genuine clause on respect for human rights. the obligations for moroccan seamen to be on board are higher than under the previous protocol. the financial compensation shall be spread over the whole territory; so the whole local population will benefit. i therefore look to the wisdom of this institution tomorrow to give a favourable opinion on the conclusion of this agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two years of negotiations, which you, madam commissioner, have been conducting, two years which have finally resulted in a proposal for an agreement which will actually enable european fishermen, especially spanish fishermen, and all moroccan and sahrawi fishermen to work and earn a decent living from their fishing activity. what should we say today? i appeal to my colleagues in parliament and my group. that all the complaints of the meps have been answered positively. secondly, that sustainability is ensured since only surplus fish will be fished. thirdly, that the fairness of the agreement is ensured. morocco will provide an annual report detailing the economic impact of the agreement, in particular for the sahrawis. fourthly, and finally, that international law be respected. the legal opinion of the european parliament concluded that the measure was legal, with a human rights clause. i therefore call for a vote in favour and i am very pleased that my socialist and democratic group, through the voice of our colleague capoulas santos, is calling, by a large majority, for a vote tomorrow in favour of this fisheries agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco.
for the greens/efa group madam president, other colleagues have said how much we have worked during this parliamentary term on the issue of roma inclusion, which is important for europe and its future and for its credibility. i have counted no less than 75 resolutions, including three specifically on the roma, adopted during this parliamentary term. then, above all, there is the european strategic framework and the national action plans. so what else can we do? what else can we do? the trivialization of populist, discriminatory and racist discourses is not stopped and we still see too often, as in my member state for example, evacuations without decent and sustainable solutions to housing being proposed, which creates humanitarian and even health situations that become absolutely catastrophic. there is the question of the structural funds, which are allocated but which are badly spent, or not spent at all, and which the local authorities do not appropriate. we must, as our resolution demands, ensure that the council adopts the recommendations put forward by the commission since last june. but i also think that the european commission must show its determination to initiate infringement proceedings whenever the non-discrimination directives or the directives on freedom of movement are not implemented or are even directly violated in the member states. there is the structural fund carrot, and then there is the infringement procedure stick. then, we also need to value all the field initiatives that work, because there are many of them. we need to evaluate them and see what the ingredients are. in these ingredients, of course, there will be local political will, but there will also, and always, be the participation of the populations in the search for solutions. this is a path which we could improve further in the next parliament.
mr president, we are hearing some astonishing things in this house. the problem of roma integration in europe is not simply - i believe it has been said - the amount of european funds available. in addition to the esf, since 2009 parliament has authorised erdf funding for housing for marginalised communities. however, this possibility - it has also been said - has hardly been used. the european commission said in its recommendations to the council last june that the solution requires, i quote, a 'change of mentality in the majority population and among the members of the roma communities'. we must therefore work on two fronts: reducing discrimination against the roma, but also changing the mindsets of these communities by empowering them. the report by lívia járóka gives an example: roma women are subject to patriarchal and sexist traditions which prevent them from exercising their free choice, which hinders their integration. we must be aware that the mobility of the roma is economic and not cultural. because integration is very difficult in their home countries, roma seek a better future in other european countries. we have to act. the priorities are known: access to education, employment, health and housing, combating discrimination, empowering individuals, and protecting women and children. the commissioner spoke of efficiency. we'll see! the question now is whether the member states, behind their speeches, have the political will to put in place genuine integration strategies, thanks in particular to european funds.
mr president, this is not a blue card, it is an item on the agenda. we have just heard in this debate some very obvious hateful and racist remarks, particularly from the efd group. this isn't the first time this has happened. in our debate last october, commissioner reding expressed regret and shame at having to listen to certain things in this house. i think it is absolutely necessary that this matter be referred to the conference of presidents and that the president of the european parliament should propose to us what action we should take on these remarks made in this house.
mr president, the directive on the posting of workers is a major danger to the future of social democracy in the european union. far from promoting what is supposed to be free and unbiased competition, it is, on the contrary, creating unfair competition between peoples and social systems. in dunkirk, near my home, a tender for a methane terminal project, estimated at eur 16 million, is to be awarded to an italian company, 25% cheaper, with the difference being the amount of social security contributions. 75% of the employees who could work on the site should be posted workers in a region where the unemployment rate is between 15 and 18%. this competition only benefits the 21st century businessmen and slave traders who are the traffickers of labor. if we want people to be able to look at europe again in a different way than as an octopus that is suffocating them a little more every day, we must urgently repeal this social dumping directive and guarantee every resident of the union a foundation of social rights.
in writing. the eu has chosen to negotiate a comprehensive and in-depth trade agreement with canada, which it will complement with a revision of the association agreement that has bound it to this country since the mid-1970s. it is on this draft revision that we have voted in plenary. i believe that this project is in line with the european commission's guidelines for our transatlantic relations. the commission and parliament want to organize our cooperation with canada more closely. but just as in the context of the trade agreement, we must take into account and value our cultural, legal and regulatory differences, rather than seeking to equalize them at any cost.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if i tell you that the automobile industry is going through an unprecedented crisis, it will probably sound familiar. yet, it is a very serious reality. the sector recorded barely 12 million units sold in 2012 compared to around 17 million in 2007, just before the crisis, a decline from the 1990s. the car is a pillar of our economy in many ways: a pillar of our growth, because it represents almost 4% of gdp; a pillar of the regional economy, as it is the main economic activity in dozens of regions in europe; the second pillar is the social pillar, with 12 million direct and indirect jobs. but above all, it is a technological pillar, because 80% of private investment in research is made by the automobile. all of this allows us to say one thing: the automobile industry, by its position at the heart of industry, is an undeniable indicator of the state of our economy. today, the peoples of europe are wondering about the future of this production. it was therefore inconceivable that the members of the european parliament, the only direct representatives of the people, should not take part in the debate. we have addressed this issue and we have done well. with this report, we have examined the cars 2020 action plan, which the commission launched in november 2012. this action plan, i must say, was an excellent starting point, and i would like to thank vice-president tajani for all the work that has gone into it. i would like to welcome the cars 21 process, which has been a long but fruitful process of consultation with industry. however, the action plan sometimes fails to be as succinct as it should be. so we had to add real value to it to be heard. the report i am presenting to you today has only one ambition: to propose innovative solutions to get back to growth in the automotive sector, innovative solutions because we have two challenges to face. in the very short term, the urgency must prevail, the urgency of getting this sector out of the vicious circle of crisis, and in the medium term we must have the ambition to bring our policies in the motor industry closer together so that we can act as one rather than as divided. in the end, we must fight for a europe that acts, but above all, a europe that protects. this report emphasizes a number of points. firstly, to improve the commission's approach considerably by identifying more precisely overcapacity and restructuring as the main points of the crisis in the sector, which are too little present in the action plan. the report will then call for the gradual introduction of clearer and more predictable regulation for industry. it will encourage investment. we must first let the industry get its head out of the water before we impose new standards on it which will only make it a little more vulnerable. the report also points out that technological advancement and know-how are europe's only competitive advantages over the rest of the world. we must therefore concentrate on what we do best to ensure that we are competitive in the long term. we welcome and encourage flexibility of work based on social dialogue and reorientation and the improvement of employee know-how in the light of market developments. finally, we call for a strengthening of our legal arsenal and our practices to combat unfair competition within europe and in external markets. ladies and gentlemen, here are the main lines of the report. it reflects a good compromise, which was supported by a very large majority of the votes in the industry committee. so tomorrow, by voting in favour of this report, you will be demonstrating that just because a fight is difficult it does not mean that it cannot be won.
i am glad that these two financial programmes have been adopted. they will allow us to move not only towards better law enforcement in general, with easier access to justice, but also towards a wider awareness of the rights and freedoms of individuals in the european union, promoting children's rights and making the principles of non-discrimination and gender equality a reality. thanks to the commitment of my colleagues, whom i also wish to congratulate here, i will be able to record several advances, in particular on the programme entitled 'rights, equality and citizenship', which was advocated by kinga göncz. first, the broadening of the programme's objectives to include the rights of disabled people and the fight against racism and xenophobia. when we talk about rights, it is essential to deal with these dimensions for the cohesion of our societies. secondly, a reference to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights was also added, although the council was strongly opposed to it. i hope that this reference will help to prepare the ground for the adoption, finally, of the anti-discrimination directive. finally, there is the inclusion of a reference to gender identity as a possible future ground for discrimination. through these funds, we will work to deconstruct gender, sexist, homophobic and lesbophobia prejudices in order to combat the violence and discrimination they engender, particularly in schools and, in the long term, throughout society. in a context of social tensions and the rise of populism, it is necessary to invest in the defence of fundamental rights and access to justice for all. it is the face of an open europe, concerned with equality issues, which is here reinforced, at the service of european citizens themselves and to respond to their concerns. finally, we should commend the work of those who are behind these programmes, those who are struggling every day in the world of associations and who need our support more than ever, need these funds to continue their work, especially the associations that work alongside the victims of violence.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the 'rights, equality and citizenship' programme is one of the european union's fine programmes and the text submitted to the european parliament for a vote is a substantially improved version of our discussions. i would like to thank mrs göncz and all the fictitious rapporteurs in particular for the positive reception of many of my amendments. i particularly welcome the addition of the word 'equality' both in the title of the programme and in its general objective, because fundamental rights only really have their full meaning as an objective to strive towards equality for all those who live in the territory, and citizenship is the means, the best tool to achieve this. citizen participation is the key to democracy, and we too often forget this in the european union. we in the gue/ngl group will vote for this programme. but how can we not ask whether it is up to the challenge, especially at a time when many rights, especially economic and social rights, are being eroded within the european union? in terms of the budget in the strict sense, as has already been said, we have avoided the worst since this budget is maintained in general. so we have not been scissor-whipped by the council, but half a billion, compared with almost 1 000 billion for the budget of the european union, is one thousandth of the european budget. different programmes have been grouped together. we can welcome this in terms of consistency, provided that rationalization does not lead, in the long run, to a reduction in appropriations. finally, i regret that companies are put on the same level as citizens. i believe that they are sufficiently central to the european union's concerns without needing to allow them to be outsourced to one of the eu's smallest budgets.
mr president, commissioner, at a time when we can follow the international funeral of mandela, this brilliant man who fought for human rights and therefore for justice, at a time when in kiev ukrainians are eager to turn to our values, i am pleased at this moment of concretisation of what is essential for our fellow citizens and which can restore confidence through these two programmes, which i welcome, of course, through their rationalization and through what already exists in terms of procedures that work - the e-justice portal, the distance learning platform for all officers and the interconnection of criminal records. all of this is important progress towards restoring trust. however, it also seems to me important to put three or four elements into practice: in addition to the procedures, the administrative simplification of the programmes, the conditions for managing calls for tenders and advertising, so that it is less opaque and more readable and therefore easier to access; access to the programmes by public bodies, but also private bodies, universities, research, ngos and non-ngos; finally, visibility and - fourth element - access to training not only for judges but also for judicial assistants and all judicial staff, so that these elements, which are practical and serve the citizen, are the best antidote to all forms of populism. even if the road is long, let us make as much of what europe is doing as practical as possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, at the outset i would like to thank ms gardini and all the members of the european parliament who have worked tirelessly over the years to shape the legislation presented to you today. the decision you will be taking is about providing better protection for our citizens and for our economies against a clear trend of more frequent and more devastating disasters. it is also about our ability to offer better assistance to disaster victims worldwide. you are aware that in the last decades we have witnessed a very clear increase in the frequency and intensity of disasters here in europe. we have lost in 10 years 100 000 of our citizens to summer heat, to floods, to summer and winter storms, and this has also affected significantly our economy with a cumulative cost of over eur 150 billion. this is a trend that we are experiencing worldwide. in just the last three years, for the first time in human history, we have damage costs that exceed usd 100 billion a year and we know that this is only a fraction of the costs because what it reflects is the insured damage, and not the damage overall. here in europe this summer the floods in the central part of our continent have cost us over eur 12 billion, and for germany this has been the highest damage cost on record. so there is not a day to be lost in acting against this trend and with the new legislation we are taking a leap forward in creating a robust disaster management system for europe: one that focuses on preparedness and prevention, and one that delivers a pre-planned predictable coordinated response. for the first time in european history, our member states will accept a legal obligation in the field of preparedness and prevention, and we will set up a voluntary pool of eu assets and experts on standby for immediate deployment should a disaster overwhelm one of our countries or a country overseas. this legislation responds to a call by parliament that i have personally heard many times: that we need europe to be as one in the face of disasters. the european emergency response capacity that you have asked for many times will become a reality with this legislation. we have followed a bottom-up approach, one that is based on voluntary contributions by member states to the pool and that respects the principle of subsidiarity. i would like to finish by saying that just weeks ago in the philippines i saw with my own eyes what it means to have europe acting as one and i am very proud of this achievement. in the future, implementing the legislation would again require your support and i very much count on it.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a decision on the union's civil protection mechanism clearly strengthens the current system of european cooperation in this field, with a view to responding much more effectively and quickly to disasters and improving prevention and preparedness. in recent years, the majority of eu civil protection interventions have taken place outside the union, mainly in developing countries, which are proportionally more affected by severe and increasingly frequent natural disasters. however, 70% of the budgetary envelope will go to civil protection actions within the european union and therefore only 30% to actions outside the union. i therefore regret that the agreement reached on the distribution of financial resources is not really consistent with reality and with our desire to prevent disasters in developing countries.
madam president, it is true that these natural disasters are increasing all over the world and that climate change will only increase the risks in the years to come. these disasters, whether man-made or natural, have a tremendous human and economic impact. in france, it is estimated that these natural disasters have killed nearly 15,500 people and caused losses of nearly 30 billion euros in ten years. this european civil protection mechanism had to be simplified; it was urgent. we need a mechanism that is more ambitious, more responsive, because in the face of these emergency situations the european union cannot afford to improvise, and the council's initial reluctance was all the more incomprehensible. cooperation and coordination between member states is therefore being strengthened. finally, i would like to say that since the barnier report in 2006, we have waited for many years before we had this ambitious project. so, yes, we have an emergency response centre - that was important - with a real european response capacity. this is an important step towards pooling resources and an example of the concrete way in which europe can bring its real added value. civil protection cooperation is widely supported by the public, with 82% of europeans polled believing that coordinated action in the event of a disaster would be more effective than action by member states in isolation. it is therefore a pragmatic and protective europe at the service of its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall confine myself to a purely procedural question based on rules 172, 175, 159, 46 or 47 of our rules of procedure. the last time, by a very large majority, the house decided to refer the report back to committee. this naturally meant, in spirit and in letter, that the committee debate was to be reopened, that the right to table amendments was to be reopened and that a new debate in plenary was to take place before the vote. otherwise, the referral to committee is purely formal. unfortunately, that is what is being imposed on us here and i wanted to protest against this violation of the majority of parliament. i hope that will be taken into account when the votes are taken.
in writing. i voted in favour of this 'justice' programme for the next multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. these objectives are to promote the effective, comprehensive and consistent application of union legislation in the fields of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters; to facilitate access to justice; and finally to prevent and reduce the demand for and supply of drugs. the appropriations for the implementation of the programme for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020 shall be eur 472 000 000.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'justice' programme for the period 2014-2020. the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice remains a priority for the european union and it was right to review the union's framework for action by simplifying and rationalising it. for example, the prevention of drug use was dealt with from the health perspective, while the justice programme dealt with the strategy for the fight against drugs from the point of view of crime prevention. the amount of just under half a billion euro for the period 2014-2020 seems appropriate. it is good news that the creation of a genuine area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters is being achieved.
in writing. i voted for the justice programme for the period 2014-2020 because this programme submitted by the commission under the next multiannual financial framework (mff) sets out the general objective of creating a european area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. it will allow, for the sake of simplification and rationalisation, to focus on three specific objectives: promoting the effective, comprehensive and consistent application of union law in the fields of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters; facilitating access to justice; and preventing and reducing the demand for and supply of drugs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the berlinguer and claeys report on the effective implementation of union law in the judicial, civil and criminal fields. with a budget of €377 million for the period 2014-2020, this report supports cooperation between judicial systems to ensure access to justice for all european citizens. this report facilitates access to justice, in particular by promoting and supporting the rights of victims of crime, while respecting the rights of the defence. raising public awareness and information about eu law and policies is the cornerstone of this new programme.
in writing. this text establishes the justice programme for the period 2014-2020. this programme has the merit of merging several european programmes. this will allow for a significant simplification of the financing mechanisms and thus facilitate access to justice for greater efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it is now essential to coordinate actions in the field of justice at the level of the european union. like eurojust, which acts in the field of judicial cooperation between the 28 member states through a network of european prosecutors, i support the establishment of this justice programme, which also helps to encourage the effective application of eu law. in addition, one of the aspects of this proposal is to better guarantee access to justice for citizens of the union, which i believe is essential today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues luigi berlinguer and philip claeys which establishes the 'justice' programme for the period 2014-2020, replacing the 'civil justice', 'criminal justice' and 'preventing drug use and informing the public' programmes. it aims to promote the comprehensive and effective application of european legislation in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. the report was adopted by 383 votes to 69, with 11 abstentions. i am very pleased with this result.
in writing. the justice programme adopted by the european parliament for the period 2014-2020 aims to improve judicial cooperation between member states in civil and criminal matters. the priorities of this programme are access to justice and the fight against drug trafficking and use. we have also strengthened the requirements for transparency and efficiency of the programme. i voted in favour of this text because respect for the rights of citizens must be guaranteed in all member states. i also believe that it is essential to coordinate our actions in order to combat crossborder criminal networks effectively.
in writing. this report deals with the justice programme, the general objective of which is to contribute to the creation of a european area of justice by promoting cooperation between member states in civil and criminal matters. unfortunately, this programme is not without its faults. it suffers from two major shortcomings: it is based on an 'all-judicial' approach and it does not take the trouble to clearly define what is covered by the idea of the exchange of judicial data between member states. these two negative points have prompted me to vote against this report.
in writing. the adoption of this programme, which i voted in favour of, makes it possible to rationalise the financing instruments. the fund, which is entrusted to the justice dg, is aimed at promoting the rights of european citizenship, non-discrimination and data protection. it thus succeeds and replaces three different current programmes (daphne iii, progress and fundamental rights and citizenship).
in writing. i voted for the rights and citizenship programme for the period 2014-2020 as it aims to promote the rights linked to european citizenship, the principles of non-discrimination and equality between men and women, the right to the protection of personal data, the rights of the child, the rights deriving from the union's consumer protection legislation. as a member of the committee on petitions, and as someone who is very much involved in the issue of transnational divorces and the rights of children and parents, i receive a considerable number of petitions relating to the objectives of the programme. some petitioners and organisations stress the importance of funding and express concern about the difficulty of accessing funds. therefore, a sound, accessible and transparent allocation of funds is necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the göncz report for the protection of human rights as enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the european union is committed to a society which respects the exercise of the rights of its citizens. the report focuses in particular on the situation of disabled people and the rights of the child. finally, the report recalls the fundamental principle of equality between men and women.
in writing. the aim of this text is to merge several existing programmes, in particular those supporting the objectives of non-discrimination and combating violence against the most vulnerable people, such as women and children. the reason for this is the desire to streamline the instruments of the european union. this makes it easier for european projects to access funding. i particularly support the objective of ensuring the protection of personal data, a fundamental right of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is intended to ensure that the rights of eu citizens are better enforced in accordance with the treaties. moreover, the union's desire to have a simple and transparent budget to deal with the complexity and multiplicity of programmes is part of a logic of transparency which i fully support. finally, as enlargements have taken place, it has become clear that there are shortcomings or inconsistencies in the implementation of certain rights within the union, and i therefore strongly hope that this proposal will make sure that these problems, which constitute a real obstacle to access to justice, are overcome.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague kinga göncz which proposes to establish a new programme entitled 'rights and citizenship' for the period 2014-2020. the programme aims to promote and protect human rights as enshrined in the european treaties. the report was adopted by 430 votes to 34, with 38 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the rights and citizenship programme for the period 2014-2020 aims to ensure the implementation of the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and to promote citizens' participation and information. it brings together three existing programmes to make the policy more coherent and effective. i voted in favour of this text because it will help to protect citizens against all forms of discrimination and will in particular strengthen the protection of children. for example, pan-european services of a social nature, such as the telephone service for reporting missing children, will be able to benefit from european funding.
in writing. the general objective of this programme is to contribute to the creation of an area in which the rights of individuals are promoted and protected, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights. in concrete terms, this programme aims in particular to improve the exercise of the rights linked to european citizenship, to promote the integration of the principles of non-discrimination, to contribute to ensuring a high level of protection of personal data and to improve respect for the rights of the child. although i regret that the budget allocated is lower than in the previous period, this programme is moving in the right direction and i have therefore chosen to support it.
in writing. i voted for the agreement on autonomous trade preferences with the republic of moldova because in the current context of ukraine, which is under heavy pressure from russia, we also need to keep moldova, which is also under heavy pressure, in our sphere of influence. this agreement will mainly concern moldovan wine, which was banned from export to russia in order to weaken the country, but which has now been liberalized with the eu. it's a powerful symbol sent to moldova.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague iuliu winkler, who supports the liberalisation of moldovan wine imports into the european union, because of its status as the poorest european country and its geographical vulnerability. the text was adopted by 503 votes to 14, with 17 abstentions. i am very pleased with this result.
in writing. i voted in favour of full liberalisation of wine imports from moldova within the eu under the autonomous trade preferences. eu support is important as political pressure is being exerted by russia on this very vulnerable country.
in writing. the commission's proposal aims to guarantee trade advantages to the republic of moldova and to liberalise without delay the import of wine from that country. moldova is facing serious difficulties in exporting its wine production to its traditional markets (russia in particular), whereas the sector alone employs 300 000 people and the agricultural sector as a whole accounts for 40% of the moldovan economy. in view of the serious economic problems which the wine crisis is causing throughout the country, i decided to vote in favour of the proposal in order to bring some relief to a country which is already in great difficulty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because its consequences are mainly symbolic, given the quota retained. this openness is a political signal to the eu's eastern neighbours, which are currently under heavy pressure from russia, as is the case with ukraine. this is a direct response to a threat of trade retaliation made by moscow this summer.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco. this will allow european vessels to fish again in moroccan waters. the agreement allows 126 vessels flying the flags of 11 european countries - including france - to fish in moroccan waters for the next four years. in return, it provides for an annual payment of €30 million from the eu, including €14 million to support the development of the moroccan fisheries sector. i voted in favour of this important fisheries text because it was balanced for both sides.
in writing. after being rejected last year in the european parliament's plenary session, the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco has been revised and improved considerably. as in the previous vote, i supported this agreement. in a context marked by the arab spring and the urgent need for economic development in the countries of the southern mediterranean, this agreement aims to support moroccans, and in particular fishermen, while respecting the eu's sustainability criteria. morocco is our neighbour and it is important that the eu shows its support, in a concrete way through the financial compensation granted under the agreement, for the development of this neighbouring country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement because it is mutually beneficial. it will allow 126 eu vessels to fish in moroccan waters in return for €30 million to develop the moroccan fishing industry. it also complies with all the requirements of parliament set out in its resolution of 14 december 2011 on human rights, protection of resources and the obligation to take moroccan seamen on board european vessels. it will also benefit local people, as the coastal ports will each receive their financial counterpart. i would add that moroccan scientists took part in the negotiations on this agreement, which has made it possible to reduce certain fishing quotas for the preservation of fisheries resources.
in writing. i welcome the approval of this fisheries agreement by the european parliament. it authorises 126 eu vessels to fish in moroccan waters in exchange for a financial contribution of eur 30 million, half of which is allocated to the sectoral development of fisheries in morocco. this agreement is mutually beneficial. it complies with all the requirements of parliament set out in its resolution of 14 december 2011, in particular with regard to human rights, protection of the resource and the obligation to take moroccan seamen on board. moroccan scientists also took part in the negotiations for the agreement. finally, the adoption of the new protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco will avoid the development of opaque private licences over which the european union has no visibility.
in writing. i welcome the approval by a large majority in the european parliament of the protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement. it is a fair and strong protocol that will benefit the european union as well as morocco. european fishermen will once again be able to fish in moroccan waters and the eu's financial contribution will be used to support the development of the moroccan fishing sector.
in writing. the ratification of the protocol to the fisheries agreement will strengthen the economic partnership between the european union and morocco. fishing activities are vital to the moroccan economy. the agreement is therefore essential to support the country's economic transition and will directly benefit the local population. in exchange for fishing authorisations for the european fleets, morocco will receive a budget of €30 million, half of which will be allocated to the development of moroccan fisheries. european programmes will therefore help the country to establish a sustainable and competitive fishery. economic development and political progress are intrinsically linked. in this respect, the agreement recalls the democratic principles and values by which both parties are bound to the association agreement. a clause also provides for the suspension of the protocol in the event of violations of fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens cooperation between the european union and morocco in the fisheries sector. this proposal is only a prerequisite for the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy with the kingdom of morocco. i therefore welcome the efforts being made with the sole aim of preserving fishery resources in the moroccan fishing zone. moreover, the financial compensation granted to morocco is fair and allows for a balanced trade. finally, the obligation imposed on morocco to provide periodic and detailed reports on the use of the financial contribution, including its economic and social impact, particularly on a precise geographical basis, is part of a financial transparency which i can only welcome.
in writing. look for the mistake: two years after the plenary rejected a fisheries agreement that was unacceptable to the majority of meps, the european parliament has just given its approval to a similar agreement. the three main reasons (ecological: poor state of stocks; economic: poor profitability; geopolitical: access to water and resources of western sahara) that had caused the rejection of this agreement in 2011 still exist. this agreement will give the union a right to fish in western sahara waters despite the fact that under international law the moroccan government has no legal right to sell western sahara resources. this neocolonial fisheries policy of the union is disastrous and will tarnish its image and the values we defend internationally. we're stepping on the head. beyond the issue of western sahara, the approved agreement still raises the same concerns about its dubious profitability and the sustainability of fisheries. the greens/efa group clearly opposed this, but the socialists and the conservatives voted for the union to sign the worst fisheries agreement in its history and to violate international law against the saharawi people.
in writing. the fisheries protocol between the european union and its moroccan partner expired in february 2011 and the protocol that should have succeeded it was rejected by the european parliament on 14 december 2011. the new proposal has considerable advantages for both partners and appears more balanced, as the cost to the european taxpayer is reduced by 30% and fishing opportunities are increased by 33%. the european fleet is facing a serious economic and social crisis, and the income from fishing under the agreement could be €2.5 for every euro invested. such a benefit cannot be overlooked, especially since environmental criteria are also required. finally, many concerns have been raised about the distribution of the economic and social benefits of the protocol to the general population. i heard them. and that is why i would like to point out that a provision on respect for human rights has been included. the two sides have reached a very acceptable agreement and i therefore wish to commend the efforts and conciliatory spirit of the moroccan authorities.
in writing. i supported the recommendation of my colleague carmen fraga estévez to renew the protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries agreement. the previous protocol had been the subject of a number of criticisms which prevented its extension. the new partnership, on the other hand, has made significant progress in environmental, economic and financial terms. the text was adopted by 310 votes to 204, with 49 abstentions. i am very pleased with this result.
in writing. on 10 december, the european parliament adopted a fisheries agreement between the european union and france, which affects 11 countries, including france, and more than 1500 fishermen. european vessels will be able to fish in moroccan waters in exchange for an annual payment from the european union of €30 million, including €14 million to support the development of the moroccan fishing sector. the previous agreement was criticised for its cost, but the terms of the agreement we have approved are very satisfactory, its cost has been reduced and fishing opportunities have been increased by one third. the agreement also stipulates that the local population must benefit from the money paid by the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement, which offers new fishing opportunities to european vessels while respecting and supporting local fishermen.
in writing. as a member of the eu/morocco friendship group, i have been interested in the renewal of fisheries agreements with morocco. renewing these agreements was essential if the european union was to remain the leading partner in the region more generally. i am therefore pleased that the agreement was voted for.
in writing. under this fisheries agreement, 126 vessels will be able to fish in moroccan waters in return for a four-year allocation of €30 million to morocco. compared with the old protocol, this allocation is down by 17%, while fishing opportunities are up by 33%. but the fisheries agreement with morocco does not respect international law, since it does not exclude the coastal waters of western sahara, and the sahrawi population has not been consulted. the kingdom of morocco is therefore not entitled to issue fishing authorisations in those maritime areas. in addition, the protocol raises concerns about the sustainability of fisheries. it is stated that: the eu will have to ensure that morocco respects the economic and social consequences for the people of western sahara, and a suspension mechanism is also provided for in the event of violations of human rights and democratic principles. but these clauses remain subject to the commission's discretion. i voted against this fisheries protocol, as the openings cannot compensate for the violation of international law.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement which brings improvements over the agreement rejected by the european parliament in december 2012. the agreement allows 126 eu vessels to fish in moroccan waters in return for €30 million to develop the moroccan fishing industry. the agreement respects the parliament's demands on human rights, the protection of resources and the obligation to take moroccan seamen on board european vessels.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to establish a partnership between the eu and morocco on fisheries. although it is very economically beneficial for the union, i cannot accept that it should also apply to the fishery resources of western sahara. the population of this territory, whose moroccan occupation is not recognised by the un and the international court of justice, was not involved in the negotiations and was therefore unable to assert its claims. a vote in favour of this agreement is therefore de facto to approve the illegal occupation of this territory and to turn a blind eye to the repression suffered by the sahrawis, which i cannot accept. i therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. on this international human rights day, parliament approved by 310 votes to 204 the fisheries agreement between the eu and morocco, whose extension had been rejected by the same parliament a year ago by 296 votes to 326. however, morocco has no sovereignty over western sahara and therefore no competence to sign international agreements, as the hague court pointed out in 1975 and as has been reiterated in numerous un resolutions. during the debate, the european fisheries commissioner justified this agreement by referring to the respect of human rights in western sahara. that was amazing. the repression of peaceful demonstrations is still as violent in the occupied territories and the condemnations of sahrawi activists are still as heavy. nothing's changed since last year. but the economic concerns of an agreement that would be beneficial to the eu won out this time. the european parliament, under pressure from the member states, has renounced its prerogatives and a key means of pressure to secure respect for the rights of the saharawi people. i have not changed my mind: i voted against.
in writing. after several years of negotiations and despite many lies and delaying manoeuvres, i welcome the conclusion of the fisheries agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco. our moroccan friends are privileged partners of europe and it was incomprehensible that some would try to block this agreement, which is mutually beneficial and meets all the conditions we had set: the sustainability of fishing activities and real economic and social benefits for the local populations. the renewal of this old fisheries agreement will allow european vessels to sail and fish in moroccan territorial waters, including those off western sahara, which i consider to be an integral part of the kingdom of morocco, despite what some ill-informed and ill-intentioned members of parliament would have us believe. this is therefore a further step towards deepening the euro-moroccan partnership and strengthening our economic relations on both sides of the mediterranean. as a strong advocate of further integration of eu-morocco relations, i see this as a source of great satisfaction and a very promising step forward for the future.
in writing. the adoption of this recommendation enables parliament to give its support to the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the ilo convention on the safe use of chemicals at work. it was important to vote to make these ratifications possible, because this ilo convention, the international labour organization, is a vital instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society from chemical-related harm.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole. in order to guarantee health and safety at work, member states should therefore be encouraged to ratify convention no 170 as soon as possible.
in writing. with this text, we are giving member states the opportunity to adopt a useful instrument for the protection of workers. the increased use of chemicals required appropriate measures. while promoting the health and safety of workers, the text also aims to be adapted to society as a whole in the interests of environmental protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, as i believe it is vital to ensure the safety of workers using chemicals. the latter are exposed daily to products which can pose high health risks. i am glad that the european union is taking these steps. furthermore, the obligation on importers and exporters to provide information only reinforces the safety objective, which is a positive aspect, both for the workers handling these products but also for the consumers, the whole chain will benefit from these reinforcing measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which gives its approval to the ratification of the ilo convention which will have to be ratified by the member states. the convention is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society. it aims to reduce the incidence of occupational diseases and injuries due to chemicals.
in writing. the international labour organisation (ilo) convention on the safety of chemicals at work (convention no 170) is an important instrument for strengthening the protection of workers, the environment and, more broadly, society as a whole. i have therefore decided to support this report which gives its approval to the council's decision to allow the member states to ratify it.
in writing. the aim of this recommendation, which was adopted by parliament and which i supported, is to enable the council to conclude, on behalf of the european union, the protocol against the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. this additional protocol to the united nations international convention against transnational organized crime provides for measures to confiscate arms which have been illicitly manufactured or trafficked, and for measures to prevent the illicit reactivation of deactivated firearms. the adoption of this protocol is part of the wider fight against terrorist organisations. the gun trade is a source of income and material for terrorist groups.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs véronique mathieu houillon, on the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. it also benefits criminal groups and terrorists by providing them with an additional source of income and by increasing their destructive potential. the protocol improves the prevention and fight against illicit trafficking in firearms by enhancing controls on weapons through their marking, import and export authorisations, and by strengthening cooperation and the exchange of information between states parties. information and exchanges are the key to better coordination in the fight against criminal networks by our customs, police and military forces.
in writing. the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms knows no borders and requires international action. with this text, we are giving a new impetus to the fight against transnational crime and the illicit trafficking of firearms in europe and thus to the protection of our fellow citizens. the aim of this text is to improve cooperation between the member states in this field by sharing information.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it is essential to strengthen the fight against organised crime in the european union through the united nations convention specific to this matter. the figures for firearms in the european union are alarming to say the least. almost half a million of them are lost or stolen in the eu and are still unaccounted for. in france, the authorities reported a 40% increase in seizures of stolen civilian and military weapons between 2010 and 2011. moreover, in view of the arrival of large quantities of powerful weapons for military use in the union, in particular from the western balkans and the former soviet bloc, it is time to have a legislative arsenal that addresses this issue.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague véronique mathieu houillon which supports the ratification of an additional protocol to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime. the agreement will allow for more effective control of weapons through their marking and will strengthen cooperation and the exchange of information between member states. this text was adopted by a very large majority, with 578 votes in favour, 5 against and 18 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. when a member of the world trade organisation (wto) has negotiating rights in a state which joins the european customs union by acceding to the eu, the eu is obliged to enter into negotiations with those wto members to counterbalance the effects of accession which bring previously concluded wto agreements into disarray. the eu-china agreement, for which i voted, is a direct consequence of the accession of bulgaria and romania and provides for mutually satisfactory compensation vis-à-vis china.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-china agreement on the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the context of the accession process to the european union. the products covered by the eu-china compensation agreement are mainly garlic, mushrooms, chocolate, confectionery and biscuits.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to restore trade rights with the people's republic of china. due to the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union and de facto to the customs union on 1 january 2007, chinese trade duties had been reduced to a certain extent. by signing this agreement, the european union is once again demonstrating its commitment to the rules-based multilateral trading system, of which the wto is the heart. i can therefore only encourage the continuation of such agreements with the people's republic of china.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague helmut scholz which adapts the compensation agreements with china following the entry into the customs union of bulgaria and romania. the accession had indeed caused a trade loss for china, necessitating this adaptation of the agreements. i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report calling on the council to adopt an eu-china compensation agreement. these are necessary changes under wto rules, following the enlargement of the eu's customs union following the accession of bulgaria and romania. the products covered by the compensation agreement are mainly garlic, mushrooms, chocolate, confectionery and biscuits.
in writing. i voted for the report on beef imports because the memorandum of understanding signed between the european union and the united states has allowed for the gradual lifting and suspension of sanctions imposed by the united states on agricultural products from the union in return for the opening of an autonomous tariff quota with zero duty for high-quality beef from non-hormone treated bovine animals. parliament approved an amendment to increase the annual amount of the autonomous tariff quota for high-quality beef to 45 000 tonnes on the basis of the most favoured nation principle.
in writing. i supported the recommendation of my colleague, mr vital moreira, that an agreement be concluded with the united states on beef from animals not treated with growth hormones. the signing of this agreement has allowed the gradual lifting of us sanctions on european agricultural products. i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. − the european union and the united states signed a memorandum of understanding in 2009 on imports of us beef not treated with growth hormones and on increased us duties on certain eu products. by voting in favour, i express my willingness to extend this protocol until 2015. with this extension we intend to further increase the climate of mutual trust, which will lead to greater economic integration between the united states and the european union, also promoting the definition of the ongoing negotiations for the transatlantic trade and development partnership (ttip).
in writing. in 1988, the european union imposed an embargo on american beef, much of which was treated with growth hormones. the united states retaliated by imposing very high customs duties, which led to the closure of the american market to many european products. after 20 years of unsuccessful proceedings before the world trade organisation (wto), the european union has reached an interim compromise with the united states, which has allowed us to maintain the ban on the import of hormone-treated cattle in exchange for increased import quotas for high-quality beef from the united states and canada and the lifting of us sanctions. unfortunately, no final solution has been found with the united states and the agreement is coming to an end. as of february 2014, the united states could have imposed sanctions on the european union of up to $116 million per year. this solution was not acceptable to european producers, so i voted in favour of extending the deadline to put an end once and for all to a trade conflict that has lasted for more than twenty years and which has had serious effects on a large number of european agricultural products.
in writing. the agreement in the moreira report is a follow-up to what was put in place in 2009 to resolve the long-running trade dispute between the us and the eu over beef. the dispute led to the imposition of customs duties by the united states, following the european blockade on the use of growth hormones and the conditions of farming. the text adopted aims to allow the import of 45 tonnes of beef free of customs duties, as 'high quality beef' (without hormones in particular), until august 2015. this extension of the agreement does not contain any amendment to the current legislation, but given the prospect of a transatlantic trade agreement with the united states, which is implicit in the proposal, i refused to support the proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which sets out, through a revised memorandum of understanding, the modalities for the opening of a phase 3 in the framework of the measures on meat and meat products (hormones) which is the subject of a dispute between the eu and the us before the wto.
in writing. while waiting for the eu-us free trade agreement to enter into force, despite my wishes, and thus for the arrival on the european market of us food products treated with hormones or chlorine, i decided to support the parliamentary report which wants to limit the import of us beef to beef not treated with growth hormones. i am voting to confirm my commitment to offering quality food products to european consumers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the application of this decision, which is the second step in the implementation of the agreement signed between the us and the eu to settle the trade dispute over hormone-treated beef. while the agreement is working well in our trade relations with the united states, i regret that it has been much slower to implement with canada, which had concluded the same type of memorandum in a similar dispute. for reasons of consistency, and at a time when our trade agreement with canada is undergoing legal revision, i hope that the two agreements, the american and the canadian, will be able to apply together quickly.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the agreement between the european union and côte d'ivoire. this will allow european vessels to fish in ivorian waters. the agreement allows vessels flying the flags of european countries - including france - to fish in ivory coast waters for the next five years. in return, the eu will pay €5 million for these five years. i voted in favour of this important fisheries text because it was balanced for both sides.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fisheries agreement between the european union and côte d'ivoire as it is about renewing the protocol to the fisheries agreement from 2007 to 2013 until 2018. the fisheries partnership agreement provides for fishing opportunities for 28 freezer tuna seiners and 10 surface longliners from france and spain. the overall financial contribution from the european union amounts to eur 680 000 per year and has increased, also benefiting côte d'ivoire.
in writing. i voted in favour of the cottigny report allowing 38 european fishing vessels access to the exclusive economic zone of côte d'ivoire. with a substantial annual financial envelope of eur 422 500 for access rights and eur 257 500 for the sectoral development of small-scale fishing in côte d'ivoire, the adoption of this protocol to the fisheries agreement satisfies both parties. the introduction of a control mechanism and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing are the key to ensuring that the agreement is implemented successfully.
in writing. the renewal of this fisheries agreement represents a significant opportunity for job creation in europe and côte d'ivoire in the aquaculture sector. this agreement will facilitate sustainable development in côte d'ivoire by aiming at responsible management of fisheries resources. i am also in favour of fisheries management through fishing limits in accordance with the quotas set by the union and the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is intended to strengthen cooperation between the european union and côte d'ivoire in the fisheries sector. this proposal is only a prerequisite for the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy between the union and côte d'ivoire. i welcome the efforts being made with the sole aim of preserving the fishery resources in the ivorian fishing zone. it is important for the european union, as it did in the fisheries agreement with morocco, to be present in these waters, because if it were not, there is no doubt that these markets would be taken over by new competitors, which would weaken the european position in this area. finally, the financial compensation granted to côte d'ivoire is fair and allows for balanced european action, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague jean louis cottigny to renew the eu-côte d'ivoire fisheries partnership by increasing the level of cooperation. so i welcome the adoption of her.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a fisheries partnership protocol between the eu and côte d'ivoire which should strengthen cooperation between the two partners. the agreement sets out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation for developing a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the ivorian fishing zone.
in writing. the report concerns the signing of a partnership agreement between the eu and côte d'ivoire. the agreement will grant 38 european vessels exclusive fishing rights for five years in the exclusive economic zone of côte d'ivoire. while economically beneficial to both parties, this agreement is very damaging to the sustainable management of fisheries resources and to the fishing capacity of the territories in the area. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement on the import of certain fishery products into the canary islands from 2014 to 2020. the spanish authorities have benefited from zero-duty tariff quotas for the import of certain fishery products into the canary islands, considered to be the outermost regions within the meaning of article 349 tfeu, for the period 2007-2013. following consultation of interested parties and the formal request submitted by the spanish authorities, the commission has made a proposal to renew these quotas for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. the european union has a duty to take account of the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands, which makes it difficult to supply a number of fishery products. by extending the tariff quotas to imports of certain products for a further seven years, the canary islands are thus in a position to stabilise their economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to extend the agreement already in force with the canary islands for a further period of seven years. this proposal is in line with the measures proposed with other union actions in favour of the canary islands, notably in the framework of the commission's proposal for a european maritime and fisheries fund. in addition, the possibility of the commission being regularly informed of the volume of imports in question would make it possible, where necessary, to take measures to prevent any speculative movement or diversion of traffic, which is commendable from the point of view of transparency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr gabriel mato adrover, which proposes an extension of the suspension of customs duties on products destined for the canary islands, in order to compensate for the economic disadvantages caused by the geographical situation of these islands. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report by 611 votes to 10, with 20 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of extending the current tariff suspension regime for imports of certain industrial products from the canary islands. as the outermost regions of the eu, this type of measure is envisaged in order to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and to promote employment in the canary islands.
in writing. the import of fishery products is essential for the canary islands' internal consumption, but places a heavy burden on the region. to remedy this, specific measures should be adopted to lay down the conditions for the application of the treaties to the outermost regions (ors) of which the canary islands form part. the report proposes to suspend customs duties on imports of fishery products from third countries under community tariff quotas. this was already the case between 2007 and 2013, and this report proposes to extend the tariff quotas for the canary islands for the period 2014-2020. the canary islands are part of the united kingdom, so naturally i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. faced with the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) can help the workers affected by providing additional support. it seemed to me essential to grant the request to finland in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of nokia workers and its dismissed subcontractors. the amount of this mobilisation is eur 9 810 000.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report authorising the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this demand in favour of finland will benefit the employees of the nokia company.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the naranjo escobar report mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 9 810 000 to help finnish workers made redundant in the mobile phone sector who are looking for work. in times of economic difficulty, european solidarity - the founding principle of the european union - must be recalled. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument to support the reintegration of workers into working life.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which is intended to help the finnish telephone industry, because of the redundancies in this sector. nokia workers are directly affected by a series of layoffs that indirectly affect an entire local economy living around these factories. the competitiveness of europe and the ability to maintain a certain level of production in a sector with high added value are at stake, as is the possibility of helping finnish workers through this fund. europe must above all stand by its citizens when they face a crisis of the magnitude of the one we are facing today.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague juan andrés naranjo escobar, which supports the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for nokia in finland, for an amount of eur 9 810 000. the report was adopted by 565 votes to 64, with 17 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for workers made redundant by nokia and its suppliers. following finland's request, 3719 workers could benefit from measures co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund for a period of 4 months.
in writing. this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 9.810 million was requested by finland. the aim is to support measures to reinstate workers made redundant by nokia, nokia siemens networks (nsn) and 30 of their suppliers, totalling 3712 employees. nokia and nsn alone employed 20% of the people working in the finnish ict sector and these redundancies are therefore profoundly disrupting this sector of the labour market. i therefore voted in favour of the release of these funds to enable all these employees to find a job as quickly as possible, in particular through training and mobility schemes.
in writing. faced with the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) can help the workers affected by providing additional support. i believe that in these economically difficult times the eu must also support the workers of its member states such as those in the frankfurt-on-oder region where unemployment is as high as 1%. i therefore voted in favour of this mobilisation of the egf, which amounts to eur 2 305 357.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report authorising the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the neynsky report mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for 875 workers made redundant in the solar energy production sector in germany. the financial contribution is a supplementary aid to the search for a new job.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to help germany in the face of the crisis in the photovoltaic energy sector. the factories specialising in this energy, established in europe and more specifically in germany, face strong asian competition from taiwan and china. thus, between 2005 and 2011, the share of chinese revenue in this sector increased. the german rate fell from 64% to 21%. i therefore think it is logical that the european globalisation adjustment fund should help this sector across the rhine. the competitiveness of europe and the ability to maintain a certain level of production in a high value-added sector such as renewable energy are at stake. moreover, this energy is part of the green growth logic of the european union, which is commendable. europe must above all stand by its citizens when they face a crisis of the magnitude of the one we are facing today.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague nadezhda neynsky, which supports the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for first solar in germany, for an amount of eur 2 305 357. the report was adopted by 560 votes to 68, with 19 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for 875 workers made redundant by the company first solar manufacturing . the european solar energy sector is dependent on structural changes in world trade in this field.
in writing. germany is requesting eur 2,305 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 875 employees by first solar. the company has been producing solar panels in frankfurt since 2007 and in 2010 started construction of a second plant at an estimated cost of €173 million. however, the sharp fall in prices and the fall in global demand forced the company to review its investments in germany and first solar finally decided in july 2012 to stop its expansion and to close these two sites. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund therefore seems to me essential to support these employees in their conversion and their search for a new job in view of the major difficulties facing the solar panel industry at the present time. i therefore voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. faced with the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) can help the workers affected by providing additional support. denmark has requested that this fund be mobilised, amounting to eur 6 364 643, to provide additional support for the workers laid off by vestas who are undergoing a major transformation in the wind turbine manufacturing sector and i have chosen to vote in favour of this request.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report authorising the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this claim for denmark will benefit the employees of the vestas company.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the kozłowski report mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to a total of eur 6 364 643 to support workers made redundant in the wind energy production sector in denmark. the fight against unemployment must remain one of the european union's priorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text to support the wind turbine construction industry in europe. the figures for this area indicate a decline in production in europe in favour of asia and north america. due to the high costs of transporting the large wind turbine parts and in order to benefit from cheaper labour, european producers were therefore forced to start a gradual migration of production outside the european union. so in order to keep the industry producing in europe and more specifically in denmark, i support the mobilisation of funds for wind turbine manufacturers. this type of activity is a real added value for the union and the economic fabric of our territory must be preserved, especially in times of crisis. europe must above all stand by its citizens when they face a crisis of the magnitude of the one we are facing today.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague jan kozlowski, which supports the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for vestas in denmark, for an amount of eur 6 364 643. the report was adopted by 572 votes to 67, with 16 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for workers made redundant by vestas. following denmark's request, 611 workers could benefit from measures co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund for a period of 3 months.
in writing. the measure requested by denmark provides for the mobilisation of eur 6,364 million to support the reintegration of the 611 employees of vestas dismissed between 18 september and 18 december 2012. vestas is the largest wind turbine manufacturer in the world but the arrival of new competitors has melted its market share. more generally, europe's historic number one position in this sector has been under threat since 2006 with the rise of north american and asian competitors, causing a shift of production from the old continent to these regions. given these structural difficulties, i have therefore voted in favour of this mobilisation in order to help these employees (and especially the older ones) to reconvert and thus to find a job as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted for a strategic partnership agreement between the eu and canada. we have been trading partners for a long time and have had a framework agreement on economic cooperation since 1976, which will be renewed shortly. the aim was also to deepen our cooperation in several sectors (environment, climate, justice and home affairs, science and technology, education and training) and to negotiate a strategic partnership agreement (spa) to strengthen our economic, political and cultural relations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the jeggle report with a view to signing the strategic partnership agreement between the european union and canada. strengthening economic, political and cultural relations will be mutually beneficial. as regards the movement of citizens, i am pleased that the question of the total visa-free regime between the member states of the european union and canada is on the agenda for the negotiations.
in writing. relations between the european union and canada are based on strong historical and cultural links. their long-standing partnership is based on a common approach to democratic principles, human rights and good governance, and a shared vision of major global issues. the new strategic partnership agreement replaces the 1976 framework agreement and thus modernises the political and bilateral framework. this renewal of political relations with our canadian partners must be separate from the parallel free trade agreement negotiated and signed last october. the european parliament will have to ratify this new agreement shortly, and at that time particular attention will have to be paid to the agricultural chapter, and in particular to ensuring that products imported from canada comply with european health standards. it will also be necessary to ensure that the investor protection provisions contained in this agreement are adequately framed and do not contribute to restricting company choices on both sides of the atlantic. this agreement, which will serve as a precedent for the forthcoming major negotiation with the united states, must be negotiated in the interests of the european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text to strengthen relations between the european union and canada. i therefore welcome this political agreement on the key elements of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement, with a view to continuing negotiations for a strategic partnership agreement. that is why i encourage the proliferation of such agreements, which have the effect of contributing to the economic influence of the two powers. in concrete terms, the agreement signed between the european union and canada should find expression in international forums and organisations, which will provide an opportunity to increase trade.
in writing. i was unable to vote for mrs jeggle's report on the future partnership agreement between the european union and canada. as the rapporteur has pointed out, this agreement is complementary to the overall economic and trade agreement with that country, which is only a draft of the future trade agreement with the united states. it is therefore an integral part of the creation of the great transatlantic market. the text calls for 'the involvement, information and consultation of civil society'. you chick ! moreover, since we are talking about transparency, has the commission's negotiating mandate for the tafta agreement finally been officially made public? and where exactly are the negotiations, which you refused to interrupt after the nsa's all-out spying scandal?
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague elisabeth jeggle which stresses the complementarity of the agreements being negotiated with canada and recalls that such agreements must include conditionality and political clauses on human rights and democracy. the report was adopted by 509 votes to 111, with 39 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. on 10 december, the european parliament adopted a resolution to encourage the european union and canada to sign a strategic partnership agreement to strengthen their economic, political and cultural relations. the agreement will complement the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, for which negotiations were concluded on 18 october. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that cooperation between the european union and canada should be strengthened. we must nevertheless remain vigilant about the terms of this agreement, which is why we have insisted on the need to respect reciprocal conditionality and to consult civil society.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the motion by mrs jeggle was adopted. some of the proposals in this report were in the right direction, such as the inclusion of a human rights clause allowing any agreement with canada to be suspended, or the involvement of civil society, but it is still a vote that steers the union towards a free trade without safeguards. the recommendation calls on the other institutions to sign the trade and economic agreement as soon as possible. however, the latter has been negotiated in total opacity so far, including for parliamentarians, and the main point that has emerged is the strengthening of the right of investors, who will now be able to attack the member states on their legislation. this is very dangerous for the community acquis and for the precautionary policy, particularly as regards shale gas or gmos. i voted against this agreement, which, despite its positive aspects, is the seal of an economic and trade agreement of which we know very little.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the negotiations for a strategic partnership agreement between the eu and canada, historic trading partners. the eu and canada have negotiated a strategic partnership agreement to strengthen their economic, political and cultural relations. it is important for this agreement, as for others, that there are reciprocal conditionality clauses on human rights and democracy.
in writing. canada and the european union have started negotiations towards a strategic partnership agreement. an agreement in principle was reached between the two sides but canada rejects certain passages which refer to human rights and efforts to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. these two elements appear to be essential and are the most important points of this agreement. i therefore decided to vote against the report because it supports the conclusion of the agreement. indeed, apart from being opposed to free trade agreements of this type, the fact that canada does not wish to recognise human rights and does not participate in the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction led me to vote against the report.
in writing. i voted against this report on the negotiations on the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement. the agreement is part of the extension of the "comprehensive economic and trade agreement" concluded on 18 october 2013 between the eu and canada, the content of which is still unknown but which, according to the commission, represents a full-scale test for the great transatlantic market. moreover, if the status of strategic partner is an empty shell (it confers no special rights or duties if such a country is only supposed to "help the european union to enforce its external policies"), it seems in the present case that even filling out such an unambitious specification would be too much to ask. the negotiations between the eu and canada are aimed at including elements in the text of the agreement which would refer to the importance of affirming human rights and efforts to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. free trade at the heart of the partnership, the absence of safeguards which should be taken for granted: the union could do without this kind of agreement.
in writing. as part of the global effort to make the financial system more resilient, there is a need for all market participants to have a clearer understanding of the impacts that financial markets can have on their functioning and business model. the report acknowledges that there are many other non-bank entities that must nevertheless be considered as financial institutions, including insurance companies, asset managers and payment systems. however, as international work on these areas is not yet completed or is under negotiation, this report i supported focuses on the next steps to be taken to ensure that the european banking system becomes one of the safest in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the recovery and resolution framework for non-bank institutions. the financial crisis has revealed the extent to which the global financial system is integrated and how contagious a failure in a risk management procedure in a major market player can be. as part of the global effort to strengthen the resilience of the system, all market players need to understand better how to operate or orderly shut down their business in a stressed situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the swinburne report, which aims to make the european economic market work more efficiently by strengthening controls on the activities of non-banking actors, including insurance agencies. the report calls on the financial authorities to monitor closely the financial health of these institutions and, if necessary, to take appropriate measures to avoid exposing the european economy to collateral risks.
in writing. in view of the current economic difficulties, it is essential to ensure an effective recovery and resolution framework for non-bank institutions. such european harmonisation of responses to financial difficulties makes it possible to overcome the economic weaknesses of certain non-bank institutions. the measures proposed in this text therefore strengthen these institutions and in particular restrict the potential contagion effects between financial institutions which are damaging to our european economies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to clarify the situation concerning non-banking institutions. i support any action by the european union which stresses the importance of drawing up european legislation based on the principles adopted at the level of the world bank and the international monetary fund. however, i believe that non-bank financial institutions themselves should develop comprehensive recovery plans, which identify the core activities and services in order to clarify this situation as much as possible. there is no room for such ambiguities in the economic and financial context in which the european union and our citizens find themselves.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague kay swinburne which stresses the need for operators of market-critical infrastructure to demonstrate good governance and strong risk management to avoid contagion effects in the event of a global financial crisis. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the recovery and resolution framework for non-banks which recommends the establishment of comprehensive arrangements for the recovery of non-banks, including protection against all foreseeable circumstances.
in writing. currently, only banks need to develop recovery and resolution plans in order to have the capacity to react in the event of a financial market crash and thus avoid systemic impacts. this owninitiative report aims to establish a similar framework for non-bank financial institutions, as their failures can, like banks, have disastrous consequences for society. the report covers, for example, the shares of insurance companies and asset managers. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it is essential to frame and increase the stability of non-bank financial institutions in order to avoid new financial crises and the disastrous consequences this can have on society.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union's space industrial policy which aims to improve the competitiveness of the eu's space industry. it must be able to exploit its full potential as china revives the idea of a race to the moon. better coordination and efficiency in industry are at the heart of this report.
in writing. i supported the adoption of the niebler report for a competitive european space industry. in the face of growing competition from new emerging powers such as china and india, this report stresses the need for an integrated european space policy. the galileo and copernicus programmes need to be further developed. i welcome the investment of €1.5 billion for space research and innovation for the next programming period 2014-2020.
in writing. i support the development of a strong space industrial policy in the european union. article 189 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union gives the european union the competence to develop this potential. an ambitious space industrial policy can generate jobs and growth. i support in particular the priority given to the copernicus programme in the establishment of this industrial space policy. to ensure its full effectiveness, this programme needs a clear framework.
in writing. space technology, one of the cornerstones of the european economy, is of particular importance for the competitiveness of the european union. today, the total revenue of the space industry is in the order of 5.5 billion euros a year. at the same time, the space sector in europe represents 30 000 direct jobs in some 2 000 companies. the growth potential of this sector must therefore be unlocked by putting it at the service of the telecommunications, transport, environment and agriculture sectors. in other words, it is a question of giving it a genuine european orientation. this approach is part of a wider logic of reindustrialisation of the european continent. europe must support sectors in which it is at the forefront, such as space technologies, while working towards the emergence of new industrial production sectors, especially in innovation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because a european review of space policy is now indispensable. as a member of parliament from a constituency where aerospace is a major economic driver, with major players such as airbus, thales and the national centre for space studies, i am trying to defend this sector of the future in the european parliament. i therefore consider that supporting research and innovation in the space sector is essential for this sector, which represents a high added value for the union and the region i represent. what was once the driving force behind the construction of europe must now be continued. that is why i fully support these initiatives to modernise the european space industry.
in writing. the european parliament has just adopted a report on the european space industry. the industry employs 35,000 highly skilled workers. a multitude of services depend directly or indirectly on space technologies, making this industry a driver for growth and innovation (satellite communication services, for example). the european parliament has always advocated an ambitious european space policy, as does this report, which calls for better cooperation between the european space agency and the national agencies. with eads just announcing the elimination of 5 800 jobs in europe, including a thousand in france, we need ambitious policies more than ever. we must build a european public hub for scientific, industrial and military space and make the european space agency sustainable, while guaranteeing its missions of public and scientific utility. let us continue to defend european cooperation, without falling into the trap of an internal market in the space industry. it would be a death threat to this industry.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague angelika niebler, which aims to improve the competitiveness of the european space industry, a sector that is a driver of growth and innovation. this requires better coordination of space activities of the eu, the european space agency and the member states and an acceleration of the development of the galileo and copernicus programmes. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which aims to create a genuine internal market for the space industry, a vehicle for growth and innovation. it is important for the eu to remain competitive and to continue to lead in this strategic area.
in writing. the success of the european project is measured by the public recognition it receives. in the industrial field, aeronautics and space are by far the best examples. our constituency is also at the forefront of this, since it is the seat of very large companies. it is therefore essential that europe should have an industrial policy and major industrial projects for space. space still offers us enormous prospects.
in writing. the space sector is crucial for europe in many ways. the industry generates an annual turnover of almost eur 6.5 billion and employs 34,500 highly qualified people. citizens use a multitude of services in their daily lives that depend directly or indirectly on the space sector (television, high-speed internet, navigation systems and the european automatic emergency call system). finally, the space industry, which creates high value-added jobs, has great potential for growth and innovation. we all know that the space industry requires heavy investment and particularly long development cycles, and in the face of increasing competition from new space nations such as china and india, the efforts of the individual member states of the union are no longer sufficient to meet the challenges of the future in this sector. a strong european space policy is therefore needed, strengthening coordination between member states and allowing synergy effects with efforts developed by each in this field. that is the spirit of this resolution, which i supported.
in writing. the european parliament has just voted on a report on the space industry. a multitude of services depend on space technology. many sectors outside space benefit from the technical discoveries made in this industry, which plays a leading role in many areas of the european economy (satellite communication services for example). the european parliament also called for a european space policy to be ambitious, while the united states remains the world's leading space nation and other nations such as china and india are also making progress in this field. i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which rightly recalls the usefulness of european space policy from both a strategic and an economic point of view. the imminent launch of galileo, the european satellite navigation system, will thus enable us to free ourselves from dependence on the american gps system, which, it should be recalled, is controlled by the american army. european space policy is also a source of innovation, which is abundant in the economy. eu-funded space technologies offer many opportunities to increase the competitiveness of our companies in the fields of transport, telecommunications and health. and to make the most of these benefits, it seems to me particularly appropriate, given the size of the investments, to give priority to the european scale to continue our progress in this area. it is also a great opportunity for the eu to develop major mobilizing projects, which allow all european citizens to look up at the stars!
in writing. i voted for the report 'unlocking the potential of cloud computing in europe' because companies all over the world are becoming increasingly aware of the productivity gains they can achieve by easily accessing the best performing business applications and/or by significantly increasing their infrastructure resources at a reasonable cost. in this regard, the european commission estimates that by 2014, cloud computing revenues could reach €148.8 billion and 60% of server workloads will be virtualised. the report simplifies the current chaos of standards; the commission will continue to support the development of the european cloud computing platform, which will be a key enabler for the development of the european digital single market.
in writing. the introduction of new technologies into the professional world is essential. the possibilities of cloud computing are endless in this sense. the principle is to make it services available on the internet for many users. it thus reduces the administrative burden on businesses, which is a sure step forward for their competitiveness. the vote on this text encourages the development of widespread cloud computing, ensuring that the data protection issues raised by such technology are addressed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it is important that the european union makes a shift towards the digital age. to this end, cloud computing has the potential to reduce it expenditure and to foster the development of many new services. thus, a clarification of contractual conditions combined with the establishment of a european market for cloud computing will undoubtedly lead to strong growth in this sector of activity. the trade with the united states, india and japan also promotes dialogue between the great powers, which i can only encourage. however, i will ensure that data protection is always guaranteed in order to offer the beneficiaries of this technology complete security.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague pilar del castillo vera which highlights the economic potential associated with cloud information, both for users and for the competitiveness of smes. the text stresses, however, that in the absence of globally applicable infrastructures and standards, the full potential of this tool cannot be exploited, and that this technology may present risks in terms of computer security and the protection of personal data. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because we need to take into account the economic potential and efficiency gains associated with cloud computing, both for providers and users and for the competitiveness of european industry and smes. in addition to the potential for growth and jobs, cloud computing could reduce costs for public administrations and provide more efficient services to citizens.
in writing. as cloud computing is growing, europe now has the potential to become the leader in this future sector. this own-initiative report thus points out the main directions to be taken to achieve this goal, while underlining the necessary speed of action that europe must show. the main emphasis is on the harmonisation of existing standards, the creation of a specific legal framework and the role of the public sector as a driver. convinced of the economic potential of this new technology and aware of the lines of progress we must follow, i have chosen to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. it is vital for our union to make the digital single market a reality as quickly as possible. this report, which i supported and which makes recommendations in the field of cloud computing, will help to do that. cloud computing is the term used to describe the remote storage of data - texts, images, music, videos - which can be accessed via the internet using the terminal of one's choice. this technology is already a reality for many users (smartphones in particular), and it saves considerable time, space and efficiency. i am thinking in particular of the possibility of automatically transferring personal data from one terminal to another. however, significant obstacles remain in the field of harmonisation of technical standards, data protection and financial and price transactions. the report offers answers to these problems. it suggests, in particular, that secure and fair contractual terms be drawn up for cloud computing contracts, that clear standards be set to ensure the technology works in a harmonised way, and that a european cloud computing partnership be set up, bringing together businesses and member states. i welcome these proposals and have supported them.
in writing. cloud computing is one of the main challenges for the protection and security of personal data stored and used by it services. it is in full development and offers many economic and social prospects. it's also a hot topic. the european parliament calls for the eu to take these prospects into account and to give the public sector a leading role through a european partnership for this service. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of national and regional inspection and enforcement authorities. the nsa-prism scandal, including the spying on internet service providers, and the cooperation of certain member states with the us intelligence agency, make us extremely cautious about the development and use of the 'cloud'. i voted for this report because, in the context of setting standards to ensure the highest level of security, the protection of personal data and respect for privacy are essential.
in writing. i voted in favour of the opinion on the evaluation report concerning berec and the office because berec (and its predecessors) seems to have gradually increased mutual trust between nras, which has contributed to the effective achievement of berec's objectives. nevertheless, these positive aspects should not prevent the possibility of considering a more ambitious set of objectives for berec and its structure, with a greater focus on the internal market.
in writing. the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) and its office were established in 2010 to enhance the independence and efficiency of national regulatory authorities. this report highlights the satisfactory activities of this body and its potential scope for improvement. in particular, the role of its office needs to be clarified.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague salvador sedo i alabart which evaluates the results of berec (body of european regulators for electronic communications). the text gives a positive feedback on the activities of this body which has played a role in the harmonisation of electronic communications markets by disseminating good practice to the competent national authorities. it stressed, however, that the independence of berec vis-à-vis the various stakeholders should be strengthened. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which takes stock of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec), which has been operational since 2010. lorece has played a role in the harmonisation of electronic communications markets through the dissemination of best practice among national regulatory authorities. the independence of berec could nevertheless be improved.
in writing. the common fisheries policy (cfp) has been thoroughly reformed in recent months. parliament and the council reached consensus on maximum sustainable yield (msy), quota management and the principle of no-discharge. i voted in favour of this new version of the cfp, which should therefore enter into force on 1 january 2014, as it will make the eu one of the world's leading models for sustainable fisheries.
in writing. i voted against the amendment in order to support the recommendations for second reading because the report makes it possible to: ensure environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries and aquaculture; apply the precautionary approach to fisheries to achieve biomass levels above those achieving maximum sustainable yield; eliminate discharges into the sea by means of the landing obligation; adapt fishing capacity to fishing opportunities; continue to guarantee a fair standard of living for those who depend on fishing; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aquaculture sector is not left behind.
in writing. i voted in favour of the basic regulation of the new common fisheries policy for the period 2014-2020. this regulation aims to strike a balance between the protection of the resource and the preservation of employment in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. a realistic timetable will allow the progressive reduction of discards at sea. i think, however, that the obligation to land all catches will be difficult to implement. the vessels are not equipped to land all their catch. with this regulation, i support the construction of more selective instruments and the generalization of multiannual management plans which allow a long-term view of the resource. finally, i welcome the abolition of the obligation to grant transferable fishing concessions, which would have resulted in the commercialisation of fishing rights. the new common fisheries policy provides a structural framework for environmentally, economically and socially sustainable fisheries.
in writing. with this text, we are taking an important step towards avoiding overfishing by encouraging controlled and sustainable fisheries. in other words, it gives us the means to ensure responsible management of fisheries resources. finally, this text will allow for the regionalisation of decision-making, which will give member states greater latitude and stimulate local development.
in writing. today, europe's fish stocks, particularly in the atlantic and the mediterranean, are threatened by overfishing. with over 350 000 europeans dependent on fisheries and the processing industry, a lasting reform of the common policy was needed to preserve this important sector of the european union's economy in the medium and long term. under the new common fisheries policy, the annual renewal criteria will help maintain fish stocks. traditional fishing techniques will also be recognised and preserved. conservation of fish stocks and an end to discards - more than a quarter of catches are wasted each year - are also key elements in the continuation of small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing. this new common fisheries policy is a major step forward for france, which is europe's leading maritime interface.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal because the conservation of the seabed and fisheries resources are major issues for the coming decades. as a member of parliament representing a constituency stretching from the mediterranean sea to the atlantic ocean, i am a strong advocate of the need to implement future programmes to preserve marine diversity. in this respect, i support the general objective of the proposal to ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities create long-term sustainable environmental conditions that contribute to food security. this sector is one of the main strengths of our regions and requires special attention.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague ulrike rodust, which amends the common fisheries policy by introducing measures to make it more sustainable. this is achieved by requiring vessels to retain all quota fish caught instead of discarding the least profitable species, by establishing protected areas because of their sensitive ecosystem and by establishing maximum sustainable ceilings to ensure the recovery of fish stocks. i therefore welcome the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. on 10 december, the european parliament adopted the new common fisheries policy for the period 2014-2020. some of the measures in this policy are moving in the right direction, notably efforts in the area of labelling and consumer information, which will help to favour quality products and local artisanal fishing. nevertheless, i regret the adoption of this text, whose very restrictive measures will put even more pressure on an industry which is already experiencing great difficulties. i particularly opposed the radical nature of the measures to prohibit discards, which will oblige fishermen to land at least 95% of the fish caught, even if they cannot be sold for human consumption. while fishermen have already made a lot of efforts to limit overfishing, i believe that these rules are not flexible enough and that we need to give the sector more time to adapt to environmental requirements.
in writing. the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) addresses the problem of the constant overexploitation of the seas and proposes to put an end to overfishing. the proposal covered two important parts of the reform: the basic regulation reforming the cfp and the regulation on the common organisation of the market (com). the reform adopted provides for a ban on discards at sea by 2019 (despite exemptions) and for a european fisheries sustainability policy. the union will have to create protected areas for their biological sensitivity, and fishing levels must not threaten the reproduction of stocks (maximum sustainable yield). the new cfp also provides for a strong decentralisation of decision-making, but the general framework and other standards, principles and objectives will still be defined by the european legislator. the two main changes for the cmo are that producer organisations will receive financial support for storage and that information to consumers will now be mandatory: production method, gear category used, catch or farming area, etc., pending the possibility proposed by the commission to create an eco-label award system. in view of these developments, i supported these reports.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the common fisheries policy which amends many cfp rules such as provisions to combat overfishing and the fact that the sustainability principle will apply to european vessels fishing outside eu waters.
in writing. this vote is a good compromise, the result of long negotiations. the fisheries policy is still subject to heated debate, and the arguments are sometimes not rational. we had to preserve the resources, of course, but we also had to ensure that our fishermen, particularly in france, had a certain visibility so that they could maintain and develop their activities and jobs.
in writing. i supported this report on the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy (cfp). after long and difficult negotiations, the objectives of the cfp are now clearly defined and reflect the values of the european union: the establishment of sustainable management and a stronger framework for fisheries practice in eu waters for the 28 member states. this reform will increase the traceability of fishery products and ensure the sustainable use of marine resources by significantly reducing waste. in parallel, i welcome the introduction of a human rights clause in fisheries partnership agreements, which is already present in many eu trade agreements and which may lead to the suspension of the agreement. by introducing this clause, the european union continues to ensure that its values are disseminated and respected internationally.
in writing. after tough negotiations, the eu council of ministers confirmed political agreement with the european parliament on the final compromise text on the common market organisation (cmo) for fisheries and aquaculture. the agreement includes the mandatory information for the labelling of fishery and aquaculture products. i voted in favour of this text which reforms the role of producer organizations by making the existing intervention mechanisms less administrative.
in writing. i voted for this report because it simplifies procedures, strengthens the role of producer organisations, attracts market support measures and provides better information for consumers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the stevenson report on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. this report enables the union's trade potential to be strengthened and sustainable production practices to be supported through the increased role of producer organisations. the labelling standards for products placed on the market are specified and detailed. the commission will propose a single european ecolabel for fishery and aquaculture products, following strong demand from parliament. in line with the new fisheries policy, this report sets out the conditions for efficient and innovative marketing, while at the same time enabling a sustainable and competitive european fisheries.
in writing. this text provides a framework for stock management and eco-responsibility in the fisheries sector. it provides for the introduction of an eco-label on 1 january 2015. it also promotes better access to data on this sector for professionals. finally, the measures taken will encourage job creation, including for young people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to organise and sustain the fisheries and aquaculture sector. this text will help to improve the situation of union production on the market and to strengthen the commercial potential of the products. the proposal also aims to promote better governance within the union, which i actively support. in addition, these policies need to be given a new impetus in order to support the fisheries sector towards a sustainable activity linked to environmental constraints.
in writing. i supported the recommendation by my colleague struan stevenson to require consumer marking and labelling for fishery and aquaculture products, including information on catch equipment and fishing areas. i welcome the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products, which provides for more accurate information to be given to consumers about the fish they buy.
in writing. the various food scandals that have made headlines in recent years have strongly aroused the distrust of our citizens who demand more transparency and information about the products they consume. fishery and aquaculture products are no exception. after two years of long, long debates illustrating the importance and sensitivity of the subject, we have managed to vote on the regulation on the common organization of the market (com). the latter is based on two pillars. on the one hand, it is a question of strengthening the competitiveness of producers who have to face global competition. it also encourages greater transparency. the commission has also proposed that the european ecolabel be established, and that additional information be provided in the form of labelling standards. finally, it imposes additional requirements on the products we import into europe. this was essential when we know that over 65% of the seafood we consume is imported. i therefore welcome the vote on the report by my colleague, mr stevenson.
in writing. the european parliament recently rejected a total ban on deep-sea trawling beyond 600 metres. i have personally supported and worked to bring an end to it, but in vain. although the ban was not voted on, i supported the report in the end because it still provides more scope for this disastrous practice than before by incorporating a clause for a review in four years' time to perhaps finally ban it for good.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it is a compromise, so by definition it cannot bring total satisfaction. nevertheless, we have succeeded in oblige ing the commission to carry out impact studies on deep-sea species and vulnerable marine ecosystems. moreover, through a number of binding measures, it has the merit of preserving ecosystems and maintaining economic activity, if consumer demand persists. i voted in favour of this compromise because it guarantees that no new fishing areas will be allowed and that trawls can only pass through the areas they have already passed through. this will help to preserve cold-water corals and sponges, which are indicative of a living ecosystem that we need to preserve. the obligation for all vessels fishing exclusively for deep-sea species to take on board observers from the european union is a guarantee of precise and unquestionable scientific monitoring. these observers will be able to identify violations which will be severely punished. they will also collect data which will enable an assessment of the fisheries to be made in four years' time and a decision to be taken whether or not to stop fishing. i hope that in these four years the fishermen will be held to account in an exemplary manner.
in writing. this report, which i supported, is the result of a compromise adopted by a large majority in the committee on fisheries. through a number of binding measures, this compromise has the merit of preserving ecosystems and maintaining economic activity. the principle of freezing the trawl, which means only using trawls where they have been used and keeping the rest of the fishing areas as sanctuaries, is a fundamental principle. it will preserve cold-water corals and sponges. the obligation for all vessels fishing exclusively for deep-sea species to take on board observers from the european union is a guarantee of precise and unquestionable scientific monitoring. these observers will collect data which will enable us to take stock of this fishery in four years' time and decide whether it can be continued or stopped. this fishery involves some 350 vessels off the french coast, whose deep-sea species catch represents less than 10% of the fishery, but it often balances the exploitation account. it would have been irresponsible to ban this fishery altogether, because it would have led to the destruction of many jobs.
in writing. i voted against this text because i regret that a more ambitious policy on deep-sea trawling has not been adopted. the compromise reached by the committee on fisheries does not seem satisfactory to me, given the vulnerability of this ecosystem. deep-sea fishing is a real danger to some marine species. i regret that it will take four years for the commission to carry out an assessment of the environmental impact of this activity. i therefore supported the amendments proposing a complete ban on deep-sea trawling at depths of over 600 metres within two years. the amendments were intended to replace the compromise proposed by the committee on fisheries. since it was adopted, we were unable to vote on the amendments. for that reason i voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. deep-sea trawling is a fishing method that destroys deep-sea fisheries. between 30 and 60 percent. species picked up by industrial trawlers are thrown back into the sea, often already dead, including endangered species, but above all this practice damages ecosystems that take several thousand years to build. it is crucial for the balance of the seas and for the balance of fisheries itself - especially small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing - to allow these resources to be renewed. these are common goods and must be protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which facilitates strict controls, the preservation of vulnerable marine ecosystems and the in-depth study of the seabed. it should be borne in mind that since 2008, measures have been put in place at european level for the conservation of deep-water species that have allowed the achievement of the maximum sustainable yield for three of the main commercial deep-water species. finally, the compromise reached is balanced and allows deep-sea fishermen to prepare for a possible cessation of fishing in four years' time, leaving them the opportunity to shift their activities to another type of fishing.
in writing. deep-sea fishing is a practice whose consequences on a poorly known and fragile ecosystem are very damaging for many vulnerable species. the fisheries sector survives only with the help of substantial subsidies and aid, in clear contradiction to the eu's other environmental protection policies. moreover, the practice generates relatively few jobs compared to other less harmful techniques. meanwhile, the artisanal fishermen and local fishing businesses are dying. french and european efforts must be directed towards more conventional and respectful fishing.
in writing. dark day for the seabed... we have just lost a crucial vote on fisheries. the european parliament has just rejected a historic measure: the ban on deep-sea trawling, despite the considerable destruction of the marine environment caused by this fishing technique. the amendment tabled by the green/efa group to reinstate this ban on deep-sea trawling was rejected by 342 votes to 326. the socialists and the ump have taken up indefensible positions which run counter to the common will of the european citizens (more than 750 000 citizens called for this measure) and have thus made possible the 'victory' of industrial fishing which is destructive for the environment and for employment. two very different worldviews. even in the face of the increasing scarcity of sea resources, it is still the productivist logic of always more, farther, deeper that has prevailed. what a shame! the european parliament, however, opted for a common fisheries policy based on sustainability criteria last february. the citizens' mobilization continues and as environmentalists, we actively support it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this compromise because it proposes a balanced approach between the need to protect deep-sea species and vulnerable seabeds and the equally necessary need to preserve the thousands of jobs involved. it provides for a no-fishing zone, protecting vulnerable seabeds, and a partial geographical authorisation. the commission has already proposed a ban on fishing for deep-sea species in 90% of the international waters of the north-east atlantic. the text also allows deep-sea fish to be caught only to the extent that the fishing quotas allowed for their reproduction. i would stress that several thousand jobs are at stake here and that if we deprive our european fishermen of these opportunities, we would have to import even more to meet our food needs, which would seriously jeopardise our food independence and lead us to import products from countries whose environmental and social standards are not as respectful of people and ecosystems as those defined by this compromise. finally, these measures will have four years to prove their worth, after which we will assess their effectiveness for possible revision.
in writing. fishermen have been worried for some months about a possible ban on deep-sea fishing. that threat has just been lifted. the european parliament has adopted a less forceful position and calls on the member states to rely on better scientific and technical information to identify vulnerable marine ecosystems and to consider specific measures for these areas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this is a good thing, since arbitrary decisions for certain coastal areas are too often taken at european level for lack of information. small-scale fishing, although the most environmentally friendly, is the first to be endangered in favour of industrial fishing by unrelenting and inadequate european policies. the legislative procedure is not yet complete. the council (representing the governments of the member states) has yet to decide. next year parliament will be dealing with the regulation again, so we are keeping a close watch.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr kriton arsenis, which, without prohibiting deep-sea fishing, introduces concrete protection measures for the areas affected and calls on the commission to carry out an impact study on deep-sea fishing which could lead to a ban on deep-sea fishing and trawling. this will give european fishermen, who use trawls for the most part, including for shallow-water fishing, four years to prepare for a possible ban. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report by 567 votes to 91, with 32 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of a report on deep-sea fishing which was adopted by the european parliament on 10 december. this will allow the implementation of measures to protect deep-sea species and vulnerable marine ecosystems by clearly demarcating fishing areas where trawling is allowed, limiting fishing to areas currently fished to preserve protected ecosystems, and ensuring that a scientific observer is on board all deep-sea fishing vessels. the latter measure will allow accurate data to be collected to assess the impact of this fishery on the environment and to decide on the future of deep-sea fishing in four years' time based on these results. however, it would have been irresponsible to ban deep-sea fishing and i have spoken out against an immediate and definitive halt to this type of fishing. such a decision would have had dramatic effects on our economy, with more than 350 ships and 1600 jobs affected, including 400 jobs in lorient.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on deep-sea fishing. like my colleagues in the ump, i have more specifically approved the compromise which seems to me to be a good balance between preserving our ecosystems and maintaining this economic activity. so while we have banned deep-sea trawling in vulnerable areas, we have refused to simply ban deep-sea fishing.
in writing. i voted against amendment no 62 in order to open up the existing compromise on deep-sea fishing and amend it on the use of deep-sea trawls. the amendment i supported, co-signed by my group and supported by many environmental organisations, proposed a ban on 'bottom trawls or bottom trawls at a depth of more than 600 metres' within two years. it was not a question of banning ships with this type of equipment, but of banning the use of this heavy equipment in fragile areas - the deep sea - which are still very little known to us. the arsenis report as adopted also takes a cautious position on this practice. a list of vulnerable areas will be drawn up by the commission and bottom trawling will be prohibited. four years after the entry into force of the regulation, the commission will assess its impact and may decide to allow deep-sea fishing authorisations to expire. if our cautious approach to deep-sea fishing has not been adopted, the fact remains that this report intends to reopen the question while setting out the practices. that's why i supported his adoption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on deep-sea stocks and fisheries in international waters which sets strict limits on fishing for deep-sea species. impact studies will therefore have to be carried out on deep-sea species and vulnerable ecosystems. the principle of freezing the trail, i.e. only using trawls where they have been used and keeping the rest of the fishing areas as sanctuaries, is a fundamental principle that will help to preserve coldwater corals and sponges.
we had to maintain a balance between economic activities and environmental and resource conservation. because this balance is extremely fragile. and where to put the cursor is hard to define. in this debate, we must avoid all excesses and think rationally. i am glad to see that pragmatism has prevailed over dogmatism.
in writing. i deplore the lack of ambition of this house, which by 16 votes to none chose to adopt the amendment banning deep-sea trawling (over 600 metres), which i supported. trawling and gillneting - the two most destructive methods of deep-sea fishing - will therefore continue. only the most vulnerable areas will be preserved and mapped. in addition, european funding will be available for deep-sea fishermen wishing to convert to sustainable fishing. this is a positive result, but it is not enough to protect the seabed, and this in areas where it is urgently necessary to prevent the disappearance of rich and fragile ecosystems about which we know very little. once again europe is turning the tables and is showing its inability to take courageous measures to prevent eleven european ships - because it is only eleven ships - from ravaging the atlantic ocean.
in writing. we had to meet the challenge of deep-sea fishing, reconciling what seemed irreconcilable: ecological, social and economic requirements. i think we've got it. i particularly welcome the agreement reached on the issue of trawl fishing, which will now be allowed in an area representing about 10% of international waters. a zoning that can be reduced if it turns out that there are vulnerable marine ecosystems that are therefore protected. the compromise we voted for protects vulnerable marine habitats, preserves deep-sea species by imposing scientific monitoring and quotas on all species, and maintains fishing activity on our atlantic coasts. it is worth noting that this concerns at least 758 vessels, or thousands of jobs. it is therefore a balanced agreement.
in writing. the european parliament has missed the opportunity to ban bottom trawling altogether. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. i regret the adoption of amendment no 62, which deferred the possibility of banning deep-sea fishing to a new commission assessment in five years' time; the amendment which i co-signed with my colleague and friend younous omarjee, which aims to ban bottom trawling immediately and to use more selective fishing gear, was prevented from being put to the vote. this fishing method, which is confined to industrial fishing, has an extremely negative impact on marine fauna and flora. i regret that the european parliament has thus sent the wrong signal, preferring to give in to industry's demands and turning a blind eye to the irreversible destruction of the marine heritage. despite the rejection of amendment no 62, i decided to vote for this report because, if we could not ban it, it is important to control deep-sea fishing in order to protect our oceans.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a draft regulation on deep-sea fishing which is a compromise between ecological, social and economic requirements. to protect vulnerable seabeds, the text provides that deep-sea trawling will only be allowed in an area representing about 10% of the international waters of the north-east atlantic. this area could be further reduced if the mapping to be carried out by the member states within two years revealed vulnerable marine ecosystems. the compromise then provides for the reinforcement and extension of the requirements of the common fisheries policy on the conservation of deep-sea species by imposing scientific monitoring and quotas on all species. finally, it helps to preserve the fishing activity on our atlantic coasts. it is with this desire to strike a balance between the need to protect species of great value and the equally necessary need to preserve the jobs involved that i have supported the compromise text. but i abstained on the key amendment authorising deep-sea trawling because i think that preserving the resource is also essential to safeguarding jobs in the future, and that this amendment revealed a very short-term misconception.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the civil protection mechanism because it will ensure a high level of protection of eu citizens against disasters by preventing or reducing their effects and encouraging the development of a culture of prevention. the commission is also proposing to promote the implementation of a rapid and effective response by emergency interventions in the event of major disasters. it will also ensure close coordination between civil protection and humanitarian aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the gardini report establishing a single civil protection mechanism for the period 2014-2020. its purpose is to improve the prevention, preparedness and response capacities of the member states in the face of major disasters. the aim is to minimise human losses as well as environmental and material losses. the establishment of an emergency response centre (erc) and the establishment of close coordination between civil protection and humanitarian aid are the key elements of this instrument for better physical protection of union citizens.
in writing. in the face of the increase in natural and man-made disasters, the time has come to set up a genuine integrated european mechanism. the text takes account of the diversity of situations by providing for increased regional cooperation. it also stressed the need to improve the responsiveness of european forces, in particular by developing a european emergency capability and focusing on the union's border areas.
in writing. to respond to the increase in natural disasters worldwide, the european union must strengthen its civil protection policy. when disasters like typhoon haiyan recently hit the philippines, we need to act quickly. member states must strengthen their cooperation and allow national emergency services to be involved in the first hours after an earthquake, eruption, typhoon or flood in any region of the world. if there is one area in which european citizens want more from europe, it is this one.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is intended to streamline the european union's response to disasters. i myself am sensitive to this issue as the departments of haute-garonne and hautes-pyrénées paid a heavy price during the floods of june 2013. in future, the new mechanism will simplify the implementation of union operations. prevention mechanisms are being strengthened and the creation of a european emergency response capacity in the event of cross-border disasters will be operational. the constituency in which i am elected has a strong cross-border character with the pyrenees chain which is shared with spain. this text can provide an additional guarantee for our territories and our citizens. in addition, the role of the european commission will be increasing. it will ensure better management of programmes and more effective achievement of objectives, which can only be positive.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the civil protection mechanism which will enable the eu to respond more quickly and effectively to disasters in the eu and beyond through the establishment of the emergency response and coordination centre. i also welcome the compromise reached on the operational planning and operation of the european emergency response capabilities. all too often, european emergency aid has proved to be late, inadequate, scattered and not visible on the ground, as in the case of the haiti crisis. will the philippines be any different after typhoon haiyan? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment. the eu must become more involved in the management of international crises, including environmental crises. the creation of a genuine european civil protection force, based on the pooling of resources as proposed by michel barnier in his 2006 report, remains without doubt the most effective and supportive solution. for the period 2014-2020, only 30% of the budget will be devoted to actions outside the eu.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague elisabetta gardini, which improves europe's preparedness and response capacity for disasters, whether they occur inside or outside the eu. this is achieved by voluntarily pooling the resources of the member states and by strengthening training in crisis management. i welcome the adoption of this report by 608 votes to 78, with 10 abstentions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by mrs elisabetta gardini, whose ambitious project is the revision and regulatory adjustment of the civil protection mechanism. i would particularly stress the need to implement a european emergency response mechanism in the form of voluntary pools to make disaster response better and more reliable. as provided for in the treaties, however, civil protection remains the primary responsibility of the member states and european legislation can only support member states' actions to improve cooperation and the coherence of the various mechanisms of individual states within the eu.
in writing. the european parliament adopted by a large majority the rules to better coordinate the emergency services of the 32 member states of the european union's civil protection mechanism. additional funding will be provided to the mechanism for the prevention and response to natural disasters or serious accidents, with a budget of eur 368,428 million for the period 2014-2020. we have provided a european reserve of rescue teams ready to intervene in an emergency and facilitated the pooling of rescue teams. interventions outside the eu will also be better coordinated to make aid to third countries more effective. finally, disaster prevention will be improved and rescue teams better prepared through coordinated exercises between member states. i voted in favour of this text because better coordination at european level will make it possible to react more quickly and efficiently and to strengthen solidarity within the european union in the event of a humanitarian emergency. since its creation in 2001, the mechanism has been activated more than 180 times in the member states and the rest of the world, including after typhoon haiyan hit the philippines in november.
in writing. the proposal by elisabetta gardini is linked to the increase in the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters in recent years and aims to establish a civil protection mechanism for the union. the financial envelope for the implementation of this mechanism is €368.3 million, divided as follows: 20% for prevention, 50% for preparation and 30% for response. the framework of the new mechanism therefore covers these three periods of civil protection, and will cover not only the population but also the environment and cultural heritage. the types of disasters for which this programme can be mobilised are also broadened in the proposal, since it will deal with acts of terrorism, technological, radioactive and environmental disasters, water pollution and health emergencies, whether within the union or outside. i therefore voted in favour of the mechanism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european civil protection mechanism which provides an integrated approach to the management of natural or man-made disasters. it is important that the eu has an effective tool to deal with environmental phenomena such as floods or earthquakes.
in writing. the civil protection mechanism's main purpose is to facilitate cooperation between member states in the deployment of emergency relief following major disasters. these interventions must be explicitly requested and the mechanism is supposed to support, complement and facilitate the action of the member states without taking control of the member states' teams (which should be deployed on a voluntary basis). in addition to the great intrinsic utility of this mechanism, the choice to make humanitarian aid subject to international standards rather than to political, strategic or commercial criteria was a decisive argument in my decision to support this report.
in writing. since 2001, the eu civil protection mechanism has facilitated cooperation in disaster prevention and response (earthquake, tsunami, forest fire) between 32 countries - the eu28, macedonia, iceland, liechtenstein and norway. conscious that this is an area where citizens unquestionably want more europe, i supported this text to strengthen the current system. disaster prevention will be enhanced: member states will regularly share their risk assessments, exchange best practice examples, and jointly identify areas where additional efforts are needed. the disaster response will be improved, including: - the establishment of a european emergency response capacity (replacing current provisions with a more predictable and reliable system); - better training of civil protection staff operating outside their country of origin; - additional exercises to test the response capabilities of civil protection (search and rescue teams, field hospitals, etc.). finally, the budget for civil protection has been increased and will now amount to more than eur 368 million for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. with the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters having increased significantly in recent years, there is a growing need for european organisation or supervision of national civil protection mechanisms. at present, civil protection in the union is governed by two legal instruments: one on the union civil protection mechanism and the other on the related financial instrument covering the period 2013-2020. the preparation of the new multiannual financial framework and the entry into force of the lisbon treaty make this a favourable time for the revision of the existing legal framework. the rapporteur's concrete proposals, based on a fair analysis by the european commission, will make it possible to bring this reform to fruition. that is why i supported this report in my vote in plenary.
in writing. typhoon haiyan, which hit the philippines on 8 november, reminds us that in the event of a natural disaster, swift action is the key to saving lives. in the face of natural or even man-made disasters, which are occurring with increasing frequency, the european union must always be ready to intervene as soon as possible. i would also like to congratulate the commission on its rapid response in the philippines. i therefore welcome the adoption of the gardini report, which aims to improve the effectiveness of systems for preventing, preparing for and responding to natural and man-made disasters of all types, inside and outside the union, through an integrated approach to disaster management. it was important to strengthen cooperation between the member states and the union in the field of civil protection. i call on the commission to set up the emergency response centre (erc) and to work with our member states to create a european emergency response capacity as envisaged in the report as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to create a pan-european mortgage market that is responsible, efficient, healthy and competitive. it introduces important conditions for lenders and credit intermediaries to ensure a high degree of professionalism in the provision of mortgage credit, such as the obligation to act in the best interests of consumers. it also adds knowledge and skills requirements for the practice of this profession and introduces the obligation for creditors and, where appropriate, credit intermediaries, to provide personalised information for the consumer.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on credit agreements for residential immovable property. mortgages are often the largest and longest financial commitment a family makes. they are essential for access to property (about 70% in the eu) and are of great economic importance. in 2009, mortgage lending was up to €6.126 billion, or 52.3% of eu gdp. the market grew between 1998 and 2009 in almost all member states, although due to the crisis, there has been a decline since 2008. we therefore need an internal mortgage market which is stable, sound, efficient and open to competition. this requires sound lending practices, symmetrical relationships between parties and good consumer information; those conditions are also necessary to promote financial inclusion and ensure a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the sánchez presedo report setting out a framework for loans to private individuals on residential property. debts of european citizens are constantly increasing across the union, so it is essential that credit institutions inform individuals of the terms and conditions of contracts in a clear and transparent manner. the 7-day cooling-off period for consumers to consider the implications of such loan agreements will ensure that consumers are less financially fragile. this report promotes the responsible operation of mortgage markets.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that a high level of protection should be guaranteed in the field of credit agreements relating to residential immovable property. at a time when the consequences of the crisis are particularly acute, it is our duty as members of the european parliament to promote financial stability so that our fellow citizens can secure loans for residential use. i am therefore in favour of a high level of consumer protection, in which consumers are entitled to all the information they need before they conclude a contract.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the financial reform undertaken by the european union since the beginning of the economic crisis. the economic environment has led to a loss of confidence in the current banking system by many consumers and has seen an increase in seizures and defaults. it is therefore essential for the commission to find a solution. i therefore believe that this proposal for a directive will help to achieve this by empowering both lenders and borrowers, which will reduce the harm suffered by consumers. i also support the obligation to assess the creditworthiness of consumers, to ensure that these credit agreements cannot further disrupt financial stability in europe.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague antolin sanchez presedo which aims to regulate the credit agreement market in the eu as regards residential real estate. the report stresses in particular that consumers must have sufficient time before entering into a credit agreement and be able to repay the credit contracted in advance. i welcome the adoption of this report by 596 votes to 31, with 65 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on credit agreements for residential immovable property in order to give better protection and information to consumers in choosing a mortgage that suits their needs, while being informed of the credit risks.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on rice imports from bangladesh, which concerns preferential access for products from the least developed countries (ldcs), in particular the preferential import regime for rice, which is a result of the uruguay round of gatt (general agreement on tariffs and trade, the predecessor of the wto).
in writing. the special arrangements for rice imports with the least developed countries (ldcs) are a result of the uruguay round. agriculture, mainly rice, accounts for a major part of bangladesh's gdp. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest people in the community.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which allows the european commission to adopt delegated acts in this area. in practice, the commission is here given the power to supplement or amend non-essential elements of the basic legislative act. the means of determining the origin of the product covered by the preferential import arrangements and the management method to be applied for the management of the preferential import arrangements will be strengthened.
in writing. the aim of the report is to align the old comitology rules with the new ones following the introduction of the lisbon treaty. with regard to preferential treatment for rice imports from bangladesh, a developing country, the report refers to social and economic conditions and decent work, which should be respected in bangladesh.
in writing. this report was presented by my irish colleague and friend from the gue/ngl, paul murphy, and concerns a measure to adapt certain provisions of the european treaties. this text will have no real impact on the arrangements for imports of rice from bangladesh into the union. however, my colleague took the opportunity to recall that it is time for the eu to take account of the development needs of the countries with which it deals. in concrete terms, bangladesh should not be seen as a mere supplier of raw materials and consideration should be given to how the country could benefit from sustainable economic development, including decent working conditions and eu relations contributing to poverty eradication in the country. we have little hope, given the evolution of the eu's relations with third countries, of taking concrete action, because we know that the eu's trade relations with the countries of the south contribute to the destruction of their local production and to the increase of their dependence on exports. we have voted for this report, however, and we have taken it to its letter.
in writing. the european carbon market has been paralysed for many months by both the economic crisis and a structural surplus of allowances compared to the reality of emissions. in view of this situation, i have supported this backloading measure from the beginning of the legislative process, because it will allow a certain rebalancing of supply and demand on this market (for artificial gas, which was created to achieve a political objective) and thus save the climate policy of the european union. that is why i have called on my colleagues to vote for this measure. this is a first step towards a more thorough reform of the european carbon market and the setting of targets for 2030.
in writing. by reaffirming our support for the text voted last july on 'backloading', we are enabling the european commission to make progress on the issue of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme (ges). the measure voted on here is an emergency measure: it is to allow the commission to change the auction timetable, to postpone the placing on the market of 900 million tonnes of co2 and thus give the ets a little breathing room even as the price of a tonne of co2 is approaching zero. this is a response to the urgency but it must be coupled with structural reform of the system. if the eu is to maintain the leadership it sometimes has on climate change issues and give itself the means to really steer development towards a low-carbon economy, it must now accelerate the long-term reform of the system.
in writing. i voted against the possibility for the european commission to take a share quota on the co2 trading market, which is an opportunity to reduce europe's carbon footprint at a lower cost. however, this system was not designed to make green investments profitable. other incentive mechanisms are much more effective in this respect. above all, the increase in carbon prices targeted by the commission through a short-term intervention on the ems (backloading), will lead to an increase in energy prices in europe. this increase would be contrary to the strategy adopted by competing countries, such as the united states, which are benefiting from a strong re-industrialization movement brought about in particular by a reduction in the cost of energy. the european union must not contribute to raising the price of energy in times of crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of a system of trading eu emission allowances, i.e. the controlled sale of 'rights to pollute'. the aim is to ensure a gradual reduction in greenhouse gas emissions within the union. the report as adopted ensures greater flexibility in the market for polluting rights and allows for a slight increase in the price of greenhouse gases per tonne. however, this measured increase in the price of greenhouse gas will not be an obstacle to the competitiveness of european industry. this is a balanced report, it will not help to slow down industrial activity but will help to combat air pollution.
in writing. globally, tackling the effects of climate change is probably one of the biggest challenges of all time. since the 1990s, the european union has taken bold steps in this regard, including the establishment of a carbon market to limit emissions from the most polluting industries. but the european system of trading quotas is now facing a crisis that threatens its existence and credibility. in addition to the deteriorating economic environment, the lack of visibility into the 2030 and 2040 constraint and the weak perception by market participants of the political will to support the market today and in the longer term have a strong impact on carbon prices. backloading, i.e. the postponement of the auctioning of 900 million tonnes of carbon allowances, is a first emergency measure. but beyond that, we will need ambitious and lasting reform of the climate change system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because behind these measures is the will of the european union and the member states to respect the commitments made under the kyoto protocol. as the amendment is designed to modernise the current directive on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, i can only welcome this willingness. the european union therefore wishes to continue its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thus minimise their impact on the environment and climate, which can only be beneficial for future generations of citizens.
in writing. i rejected this text to preserve the competitiveness of our industrial sector, which is already being severely tested by the economic crisis! i regret the irresponsible decision taken by parliament, with the support of the socialist group. the emission allowance mechanism is a market mechanism. a short-term intervention will undermine the predictability our industry needs to invest. the increase in the price of carbon will have an impact on energy prices, increasing the risks of offshoring. if we move production elsewhere, our most energy-intensive industries would no longer be subject to european standards. what the ets mechanism needs is structural reinforcement, not simple tinkering! we must stop imposing unnecessary costs on our industry. we must instead lay the foundations for a clear, coherent and competitive energy policy that supports industrial growth.
in writing. i supported this report in order to improve the current european carbon trading system which has failed to do this, in particular by bringing down the price of a tonne of carbon from around €30 to €3. by artificially creating scarcity, we hoped to push up the price of the ton which has fallen dramatically this year. but with the crisis, industrial production fell, and so did the emissions of manufacturers. the weakened ets risked the emergence of new national measures (taxes and regulations) which, unlike the current policy of creating an internal energy market, would fragment it. that is why i support this proposal to temporarily withdraw 900 million co2 allowances from the market in order to stabilise and raise the price of a tonne of carbon to stimulate investment and innovation in low-carbon technologies.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague matthias groote, which will lead to an increase in the economic burden on european companies, already heavily affected in this period of economic crisis. i therefore regret the adoption of this report.
in writing. on tuesday 10 december, the european parliament adopted a text authorising the european commission to withdraw emission allowances from the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading market. the european commission justified this withdrawal by the fall in the price of co2 per tonne which was caused by the reduction in emissions of this greenhouse gas. i voted against this because imposing new constraints on companies and artificially raising the price of emission allowances does not seem to me to be useful in achieving our environmental objectives. the current emissions trading system has proven its effectiveness in combating climate change. in addition, this price increase could have a negative effect on our economy by increasing the overall cost of energy. in a context where many companies are facing cash flow difficulties, this seemed unthinkable to me.
in writing. parliament approved a revision of the system for auctioning emission allowances, with a view to potentially freezing 900 million tonnes of co2. i personally voted against this text because i cannot believe that it is a good idea to impose a measure in a time of crisis which increases the production costs of our companies by artificially raising the price of energy. this is damaging to the competitiveness of our economies and hinders growth potentials that are essential for job creation. the environmental issue is of course a major concern, but we have to adapt to the economic realities we are living in at the moment.
in writing. i voted against the freezing of co2 auctions because i believe that changing the rules of a system through the intervention of the european commission undermines the predictability that european companies want. the slowdown in growth is one element that companies have to deal with. it is better to wait for the economic recovery to hope for results from the greenhouse gas emission quota system.
in writing. the european union's emissions trading system (eu ets) sets a number of greenhouse gas emission allowances per member state, which are then distributed to a number of industrial enterprises. thus, if a company is short of allowances, it has the option of buying from an excess company on the basis of auctions. the initial objective of this instrument was therefore to raise the price of carbon on the basis that the demand for polluting rights would be greater than the supply. the price was eventually to reach a certain level that would encourage business investment in low-carbon technologies. however, industrial enterprises in the eu are in a situation of surplus quotas. in fact, 995 million allowances have accumulated due to the slowdown in activity following the economic and financial crisis, which does not favour investments in low-emission technologies. i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to introduce provisions enabling the european commission to withdraw up to 900 million allowances from the market. this is a key measure to combat climate change, in that it will raise the price of carbon and thus encourage companies to invest in technologies that emit less greenhouse gases.
in writing. i deeply regret that parliament has supported this report. the freezing of carbon emission allowances is by no means an appropriate response to the shortcomings of the market for allowances. but most importantly, it's a very bad signal that we've sent to our companies. and i'm not talking about the increased risk of carbon leakage. many already prefer to produce at eu borders rather than within the common market. many more are likely to join them. europe is exposed to a little more competition from outside. in the end, it's all about the message. in these times of crisis, is it not time to re-examine our priorities for the competitiveness of our companies rather than putting even more pressure on them?
in writing. it took a second reading before the european parliament adopted what is now commonly called a reform of the carbon market or co2 quotas under the greenhouse gas quota trading system. (ets) and this is essentially a freeze of the trading systems for the period 2014-2016 but the allowances will be put back on sale after 2019. the vote will confirm the agreement reached between parliament and the council on 20 november. this freeze should certainly help to raise the price of co2, but it is forgetting that the quotas are blocked by the manufacturers themselves. the gue/ngl is hostile to the carbon market, and the meagre reform proposed by the european commission, undermined by the dialogue with the council and the european parliament, is not up to the challenge, nor is the poor outcome of the warsaw cop. climate and the planet cannot be satisfied with marginal measures. it's an emergency. so i refrained.
in writing. i am deeply sorry that our house, which is very divided, has finally decided to freeze carbon emission quotas. this measure to save a collapsing market for polluting rights is completely contrary to what europe and our industries need. the freezing of the 'polluting rights' granted to almost 12 000 industrial sites in europe will in fact result in an increase in the energy bill of our companies, while the economy is faltering. it is not the artificial market for pollution rights that we must save, but our companies, which suffer from higher energy costs, unlike their foreign competitors. i sincerely regret the bad timing and the lack of common sense of my colleagues who are trying to save an artificial quota exchange system, at the risk of further undermining the real economy. if the desired effect of raising the price of a tonne of carbon is not achieved, i would oppose any further attempt by the commission to manipulate the situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the definition of the criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste in order to clarify recycling procedures.
in writing. i support the principle of a regulation to define the criteria for the release of waste paper. however, the european commission's proposal did not provide sufficient guarantees as regards the fate of the various components of multi-material papers, which in some cases could pose a danger to the environment. i welcome the rejection of several amendments which showed a complete disregard for the waste economy and the provisions of the waste framework directive. i now call on the commission to make a new proposal for a regulation on the basis of parliament's resolution.
in writing. as part of my daily commitment to achieve and respect gender equality, i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the wider strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015. noting that roma women regularly face multiple and intersectoral discrimination, which is more intense than that against roma men and women, parliament's resolution calls on both the member states and the european commission to take note of this situation and to intensify their efforts to remedy it.
in writing. in 2011, we adopted the european roma integration strategy. more than two years later, much remains to be done for this ethnic minority, the largest in europe and the most persecuted. two resolutions recall the challenges facing the member states. it is a priority to make the countries of origin face up to their responsibilities and neglect, so that the situation of roma in bulgaria, romania and hungary can be improved - and to this end, to ensure that european funds intended to improve the living conditions of these populations (access to education, vocational integration, combating discrimination) are used in the right way. but it will take time. we must therefore also provide them with decent living conditions in our territories and give them a chance to integrate. the eviction policy only moves the problem. the integration policy must be revived. it cannot be left to the communities alone, just as it cannot ignore the question of social acceptance. in france, part of the european funds could - and should - be mobilised in favour of such projects (reception centres, specific school and family care, etc.). the inclusion of roma is necessarily through the europe box.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the gender aspects of the european framework for national roma integration strategies because too many one-size-fits-all amendments have been adopted and are inapplicable in this area, which distorts the laudable and useful objective of roma integration.
in writing. i voted against this report because i believe that roma people have not only rights but also duties. the report calls for member states to introduce positive discrimination measures to facilitate access to employment for roma women and men in public administration. this is a serious communitarian drift. the development and promotion of the roma language and culture is also discussed. i am opposed to these measures and have therefore voted against this report. of course, roma who wish to integrate must be accompanied, but i believe that the question of the integration of these populations must first be settled in their countries of origin. the european commission allocated €17.5 billion to roma and other vulnerable groups between 2007 and 2013. it is a huge sum of money, and it is amazing how much money is being spent today. these countries must take responsibility for integrating these populations instead of driving them out of their borders.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague livia jaroka, who would like to impose a disproportionate financial burden on the member states. i regret the adoption of this report.
in writing. the european parliament has called on member states to improve the implementation of national roma integration strategies, which have so far not produced satisfactory results. i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses in particular the need to protect and include roma women by adopting measures in the fields of education, employment and health. roma integration strategies must also address violence against women, including domestic violence, sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. the european parliament addressed the issue of roma women and their discrimination this week. the adoption of the report by ms jaroka is welcome, as roma women are subject to a great deal of discrimination on the grounds of sex and ethnicity. despite the many (failed) attempts to block it by the right wing of parliament, the adopted report does provide for the inclusion of considerations on roma women in national strategies (elimination of violence against women and girls, and specific measures concerning employment, health, housing and education), strategies for which they will now participate in the development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. new tools will also be used by the european union for the implementation and monitoring of the strategies, such as the human development index (hdi) and the women's empowerment index (wea). member states are also invited to set up specific programmes for the education of roma girls and young women. i voted for this report.
in writing. the situation of roma in the european union is known to be precarious. they are, in general, victims of many discriminations. this report deals with the particular case of roma women, whose situation is even worse than that of men (inactivity, sexual rights violated, deterioration of health, etc.). the report aims to facilitate the better integration of roma women into european society. the commission is proposing to set up programmes to improve the autonomy and access to employment, housing and health of roma women throughout the union. i supported this report by voting in favour.
in writing. this own-initiative report, which refers to the first results of the european framework for national roma integration strategies, stresses that integration is a two-way process and that any integration process involves shared responsibilities. if i agree with this, i do not agree with the other analyses of the rapporteurs. i would like to see more monitoring of national strategies, because while european funds are well made available, there are still bottlenecks at national, regional and local level which limit their use.
in writing. i opposed this report, which in my opinion should never have been published. the european parliament is giving a very negative image when it creates unnecessary tensions and polemics on such a sensitive subject as roma integration and gender equality. why treat gender equality in roma communities separately when inequalities are blatant and pervasive, regardless of country or origin? we need a comprehensive strategy to end practices of another age that are unacceptable and backward, not a report of initiative that stigmatizes a community and highlights a phenomenon that is not specific to it. my negative vote is therefore not a refusal of gender equality, but a refusal of parliament to take up an issue for which its action is not relevant and does not add any value.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the international community's efforts to develop and strengthen the state in south sudan. the new state needs the support of the international community to provide for its survival and that of its citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which calls on sudan and south sudan to resolve outstanding problems through political dialogue and peaceful engagement, and to make the best use of the wealth and potential of the region's oil resources. the union has committed eur 285 million in development aid to south sudan two years since its independence, with priority given to agriculture, democratic governance, the rule of law, education and health.
in writing. in the face of the profound difficulties facing the european automotive industry, the european union must consider the conditions which will enable this industry to remain competitive while producing models which are more environmentally friendly. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which provides a good overview of the challenges and promising ways of securing the future of this industry in europe.
in writing. i voted for my colleague, mr proust's report on the future of the car. the report supports the commission's action plan to put the automotive industry at the heart of european growth, but encourages the commission and the member states to go further in their market analysis and to propose a more european approach. but not forgetting the people and their know-how, which is an asset for the differentiation of the union. the report, which stresses the importance of a robust internal market, also covers external markets and trade relations, in order to cope with increased competition inside and outside the union. all the elements are present to make this report a strong signal for the future of european industry, but also french industry.
in writing. i supported the proust report for an action plan for a competitive and sustainable automotive industry in europe. 12 million jobs depend on this sector. the report sets out concrete proposals for growth: the fight against offshoring, an export industry and a trade policy protecting the interests of these companies. to achieve these ambitious but achievable objectives, i support the call for structural reforms in the member states. the european automotive sector must maintain its global leadership.
in writing. with the vote on this excellent report by franck proust, we aim to put road mobility back at the centre of european industrial policy. committing to the increased and sustainable competitiveness of the european automotive industry means guaranteeing 270 million motorists a quality and more environmentally responsible supply. the automobile sector also represents 12 million direct and indirect jobs. it is now up to the european union to take stock of a sector which is not only a pillar of its economy but also a driver of more sustainable growth.
in writing. the automotive industry in the union directly or indirectly employs 12 million people in europe and is thus a sector of strategic importance for the european economy. the commission must therefore implement a sustainable strategy for this industry, so that it can remain efficient, competitive and able to access new markets. this also implies that the union effectively defends its enterprises against unfair trade practices by third countries. this strategy for the automotive sector must be part of the wider framework of a genuine industrial policy, which the european union needs now more than ever to support the competitiveness of its manufacturers and to encourage innovation in key sectors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it is important to support the automotive sector in europe, at a time when many factories in france are closing and manufacturers are deciding to move to countries where the labour force is more advantageous. the text promotes various initiatives which are part of the logic of green growth. to this end, this communication promotes the european green vehicle initiative and aims to reduce co2 and pollutant emissions and noise pollution, which i welcome. and this is an opportunity that our automotive stars must seize. in addition, efforts in bilateral cooperation with third countries must also be stepped up with a view to eliminating non-tariff barriers in the automotive sector which are still detrimental to the european economy. we must help our companies to export products produced in our own countries and thus revitalise the industrial network in europe. in the face of indian or chinese competitors who have already developed many technologies in this field, europe must react and apply its know-how. that is why i welcome all these initiatives.
in writing. i am afraid that the commission's action plan for the automotive industry is symptomatic of its weak commitment to a genuine industrial policy. the vision remains general, global, focused on competitiveness and competition but also lacking: subcontracting, maintenance, secondary market are forgotten. it remains ambiguous as to what it is necessary to support: the so-called 'european' manufacturers, regardless of the place of production, i.e. the shareholders, or on the contrary the jobs in the existing production areas, i.e. the citizens. i must say that supporting romanian employment at dacia by watching the renault factories in france close is not in my interest at all. this is the crux of the problem: in the current state of the european union, an industrial policy at european level, based on the commission's long-standing and outdated principles of action (no support, no protection, intra-european competition, even exacerbated and unfair) may be costly for some countries, notably france. i am not sure that it is at european level, the same one that imposes austerity and therefore contributes to the lack of demand, that solutions should be sought.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a specific action plan to support the competitiveness and sustainability of our automotive industry. this historic industry is facing an unprecedented crisis, despite the fact that it creates more than 12 million direct and indirect jobs in europe and accounts for almost 6.9% of the union's gross domestic product. it is urgent to put the automotive industry back at the heart of european growth! the report is a step in the right direction, encouraging member states to implement structural reforms to boost the competitiveness of the sector and advocating 'smart' and less bureaucratic regulation. it also stresses the importance of technological innovation in promoting the advance of european industry in future markets such as clean vehicles. finally, it does not forget the importance of human capital by emphasising the training and "know-how" of employees in the sector.
in writing. the european parliament voted on the strategy for the automotive industry up to 2020. statistics show that the number of vehicles sold has decreased significantly in recent years: minus 6.85% for personal vehicles and minus 10.87% for commercial vehicles. this is a direct consequence of austerity policies which reduce the purchasing power of households and the investment opportunities of firms. to deal with this crisis and to build a european industry that creates jobs and enables innovative and environmentally friendly solutions, we need european public cooperation in research and development. the 'cars 2020' strategy proposed to the european parliament goes in the opposite direction. all the amendments i tabled on this report in the committee on industry were rejected. the report calls for 'restructuring' and defends unbridled competitiveness, including towards third countries. i voted against this report which can only benefit the shareholders of the large companies.
in writing. the automotive sector has been particularly affected by the crisis. france has a painful memory of factory closures in this sector, as in many others. today, the automotive sector accounts for 12 million direct and indirect jobs, 4% of european gdp and generates €90 billion in gross trade surpluses per year. that is why i am convinced that we need an innovative industrial policy that is aggressive on international markets. however, it seems to me that a european industrial policy requires genuine economic cooperation within the eu and that unfair competition and social dumping must stop. i also believe that this action plan lays the foundations for the sector to regain global markets: - to focus on innovation and to concentrate research and development on cutting-edge sectors such as eco-innovation and green cars; - to encourage member states to restructure their economies in order to promote the competitiveness of the sector in the domestic and international markets; - to promote smart regulation so as not to further weaken the sector. finally, i fully share my colleague franck proust's proposal to introduce a conditionality clause in european aid to companies that relocate.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague franck proust which encourages a european approach to the automotive industry, via structural reforms to promote the competitiveness of the sector. the report also encourages innovation to make cars more environmentally friendly and the establishment of international standards. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. on tuesday 10 december, i voted in favour of measures to improve the competitiveness of the european automotive industry, which accounts for 4% of our wealth and almost 12 million direct and indirect jobs. with the cars 2020 plan, we will simplify the regulatory framework and prohibit any new legislation that would have a negative impact on this sector. the plan also aims to combat offshoring by introducing a clause requiring offshoring companies to repay money lent to invest in their sites. we will also better protect european jobs by promoting social dialogue and introducing a principle of reciprocity in our trade with third countries. i welcome the adoption of this plan which will help to maintain the european automotive industry's place in the world, as it is a key sector which generates no less than €90 billion in trade surpluses for the european union every year.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to support the commission's action plan for a european automotive industry. it is essential that we recognise the importance of the european industrial sector and in particular the automotive sector, on which almost 12 million direct and indirect jobs depend. the sector accounts for 4% of european gross domestic product and generates a trade surplus of €90 million through exports each year. the european commission must take these data into account, particularly when negotiating trade agreements with third countries.
in writing. i am proud that my colleagues supported my report by a very large majority. we had to deliver a clear message. the commission's action plan was a good start, but we needed to improve it. the aim of this text is to help the automobile out of its deep crisis by improving its competitiveness. i am particularly pleased that my colleagues have supported some of my key proposals: a moratorium on any new legislation that would have a negative impact on the sector, improving social dialogue, fighting tax dumping within the union, or introducing a conditionality clause for european aid that would require companies that relocate to repay money borrowed to invest in their sites.
in writing. i supported this strategy for the automotive industry in europe, which has suffered particularly since the start of the economic crisis, with five million fewer units sold in 2013 compared to 2007. the european automotive sector is, however, a vehicle for innovation, competitiveness and considerable employment. in the short term, the report makes proposals for conversion to support regions facing a sharp decline in employment. in particular, we advocated a complementary and ambitious deployment of all european (eib, erdf, esf) and national funds and instruments to ensure that affected automotive workers are re-oriented towards alternative jobs in related sectors, such as alternative energies. in the longer term, the report stresses the urgency of investing heavily in research and innovation in sustainable and non-polluting technologies (alternative fuels, electric and hybrid vehicles and appropriate infrastructure, mobile energy storage). to be competitive today and tomorrow, europe must take the lead.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on the eu strategy for the automotive industry. the automobile industry in europe is suffering. statistics show that the number of vehicles sold has decreased significantly in recent years: down 6.85% for personal vehicles and down 10.87% for commercial vehicles. to deal with this crisis and to build a european industry that creates jobs and enables innovative and green solutions, we need european public cooperation in research and development. the 'cars 2020' strategy proposed to the european parliament goes in the opposite direction. this strategy advocates the exclusive path of competitiveness and competition. the measures proposed range from aid to the 'restructuring' of the sector, and we know what this means for employees, to the promotion of the single market. moreover, the distortions of competition which are problematic according to this strategy concern only the 'distortions' linked to national technical regulations, but no criticism of the social dumping which may be practised in the automobile sector. so nothing new under the sun... the only interests defended here are those of the big corporations. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which provides a fair diagnosis of the european strategy to support the automotive sector. while the sector has been hit hard by the crisis, i believe that this fall in the european car market is not only due to the economic situation, but also to structural weaknesses. the crisis has revealed in particular that production sites are overcapacity and mainly focused on the european market. in this context, the eu must be a responsible and ambitious actor. it must do its utmost to assist our manufacturers in their painful but necessary restructuring. this requires the appropriate mobilisation of european funds to support regions that are highly exposed to the change in the automotive sector. the eu must also put our manufacturers in a favourable position to better capture the international growth drivers that will maintain a high level of activity in europe. to do this, it must overcome all the barriers which currently prevent european manufacturers from gaining free access to emerging markets. these are the two levers we have identified that the eu must activate if it is to boost a car sector that has been the pride of all for decades.
in writing. sexual and reproductive health and rights are essential issues. as the president of the association women at the centre, i am very involved in these issues related to women's rights and the family. unfortunately, the first version of this report was totally unacceptable because it contained references to unfounded concepts and relativised the essential role of parents in the education of children. however, following the second passage in the parliamentary committee responsible for women's rights, most of the problematic passages had been removed. i therefore preferred to continue to improve this text through a series of amendments and separate votes rather than reject it as a whole by voting for an alternative resolution. more than ever, women's rights and family rights are a political issue that must be addressed!
in writing. i voted in favour of the epp resolution so that the motto of the european union retains its full meaning: 'united in diversity'. our political commitment has helped to preserve the cultural diversity of our states. matters relating to marriage for all, abortion, access to assisted reproduction and the education of young people are the responsibility of the member states. each member state has its own cultural and religious tradition, which it is important to promote and protect within the european union. i remain convinced that the responsibility for educating children in this regard rests with the parents and the parents alone. i regret, however, that some of the passages in the resolution recalled concerns i regularly raise as an alternate member of the committee on development: the need for access to good quality and comprehensive health care and the education of girls and women in developing countries. however, the european parliament regularly reiterates its commitment to providing access to health care for developing countries in specific texts on this external policy.
in writing. i strongly opposed the adoption of the estrela report as adopted in the parliamentary committee for two reasons. first of all, i am against some of the proposals mentioned in this report. i am in favour of strict respect for the prerogatives of the member states. the european parliament cannot take over fields of action which depend on the strict sovereignty of the member states. i therefore welcome the adoption of the joint alternative resolution by the epp and ecr groups, which states that the issue of sexual and reproductive health and rights is a matter for the states.
in writing. although the text initially proposed had no binding legal force, it was nonetheless unacceptable in its symbolism and in the ideas it conveyed. the example of france is enough to make us understand that if there is to be a debate, it must be conducted in the states, without denying the culture, values and roots of each country. the text we were asked to vote on was far from satisfactory. it contained many ambiguities that could lead to overly broad interpretations. i have expressed my total opposition to this text from the very beginning. that is why i voted in favour of the alternative resolution proposed by the epp, which reaffirms the competence of the states in these areas.
in writing. while legislative and regulatory policy on reproductive health is the responsibility of the member states, the union can bring added value, including through the sharing of positive experiences and best practices in the health programmes and policies of the member states and candidate countries. beyond its legislative powers, the european parliament has always played an important role in promoting sexual and reproductive health and rights, both within the european union and vis-à-vis third countries via emergency resolutions on cases of human rights violations worldwide.
in writing. i voted against this text because i believe that it is not for the european union to legislate in this area. the member states remain competent to take the necessary measures in the field of abortion, sexual education and assisted reproduction. this text goes far beyond the sphere of competence of the european union, and it contains innumerable ambiguities which can open the door to many deviations. i therefore maintain that the principle of subsidiarity must apply in this area. i am keen to fulfil the tasks entrusted to me as a member of the european parliament by ensuring that europe does not legislate in areas which remain the responsibility of the member states. i will continue to be vigilant in reading european texts and when voting.
in writing. gender ideology is spreading rapidly in europe. this is a trend which is being promoted by the european institutions, which are remote, abstract and subject to various ideological influences. as a reminder, this estrela report calls on the european union to encourage ldcs, disorderly sex education, very early, without parental intervention and a right to abortion. these are not european but national areas of competence. the education of children is primarily the responsibility of the parents, without undue interference by the state. freedom of conscience is a fundamental right, with the corollary of conscientious objection. abortion and lmp are by no means fundamental rights. support for the alternative proposal i co-signed was the only way for french elected representatives to express their opposition to the pma, the gpa and the undue interference of the state and lobbies in children's education. the principle of subsidiarity must also be respected and the normative and ideological invasion by brussels must be stopped as soon as possible. there can be no defence of life and the family in a europe of irresponsible commissioners and technocrats. we can only defend these values in a europe of the people.
in writing. tuesday, december 10, was international human rights day. we have just witnessed an unbearable setback for women's rights in europe. the european parliament has just given in to the ultra-conservative movements. the ep has voted by a very narrow majority (334 votes in favour, 327 against and 35 abstentions) on an alternative resolution against women's rights, tabled by the european right and far right. the text leaves it to the member states to adopt the measures they consider justified. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the estrela report called for improved access to contraception, education and sexuality, as well as safe and legal abortion services. europe has long been at the forefront of gender equality, but its achievements, promoted by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, are threatened by a retrograde vision. the european citizens will be called upon, at the next elections, to choose, among other things, which conception of women's rights they wish to defend in europe.
in writing. i voted against the epp/ecr resolution which excluded any expression by the european parliament on a fundamental issue such as sexual and reproductive health and rights. this resolution is merely a retrograde statement which should be a clear signal of the dangers threatening the rights of citizens, the danger of a reactionary europe which we call for to be rejected. i regret the right-wing stance to deny the right of every woman, regardless of her country of residence, to be able to make an informed and responsible choice about her sexuality and reproductive health, and to live her sexuality freely, without violence or discrimination. the conservatives' indifference to women, including rape victims, who are denied the right to abortion in their own country, have to resort to clandestine abortion that puts their lives in danger, is a serious attack on human dignity. i protest against an aggressive, untruthful and unprecedented lobbying campaign which has resulted in the failure of a progressive resolution to pass. access to rights and the principle of non-discrimination in matters of sex are necessary for respect for human dignity.
in writing. conservative catholics have won the battle in the european parliament against a report on sexual and reproductive health and rights. this report by the committee on women's rights and gender equality, chaired by my colleague mikael gustafsson, recalls: - that women must have the freedom to decide to have children and when they want to have them, and to benefit from safe and accessible contraceptive methods; - that "public health budget cuts still restrict access to health care and services"; - that sex education is essential for young people and to combat gender discrimination. those who claim to defend family rights voted against universal access to health services, regardless of age or geographical location (rural area) and against women's rights. the report merely makes recommendations to the member states, but for some members it was an opportunity to chase the votes of the far right. this vote is a symbol of a reactionary drift which is gaining ground in europe and in the public institutions.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament, with the support of the right-wing and centre-left parties, has rejected the report on sexual and reproductive health and rights. this is a common sense approach which has unfortunately not been followed by all the political groups. the european parliament has always been a body which protects rights, and i myself defend that prerogative. however, i do not accept that this assembly should shake the principles and values of each member state, which are the responsibility of each individual's conscience, at the risk of dividing societies already shaken by the continuing economic, financial and social crisis. i am concerned about the increase in the past few months of these dangerous and senseless attempts by a few political groups to challenge the treaties and principles governing the european union. indeed, if it does not exist because it has taken historic and decisive decisions for the future of the european continent, the european parliament will be recognised as the assembly that has best promoted the eurosceptic parties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the alternative resolution tabled by the epp which was intended to replace the report by my colleague edite estrela. the report, although not legislative, dealt with subjects which are outside the competence of the european union as they concern health policies which are the competence of the member states. the resolution tabled by the epp recalls the contents of the european treaties and therefore rightly rejected the contents of the report. i therefore welcome the adoption of the epp alternative resolution by 334 votes to 327 with 35 abstentions.
in writing. i voted against this alternative resolution proposed by the conservatives. the arguments put forward by the opponents of this report are in bad faith. a transparent and democratic procedure was followed in the femm committee and the epp members participated and supported this approach through the work of amendments and compromise. it should be remembered that this was an own-initiative report and was therefore not binding on the member states. the aim was to affirm a strong position of the european parliament in favour of sexual and reproductive rights in europe. i would also like to denounce the campaign of disinformation that has been orchestrated by the ultra-conservative movements. although they are a minority, they have a very wide voice in this house. they advocate a backward vision, which runs counter to the values of equality, humanism and solidarity promoted by the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. on tuesday 10 december, the european parliament rejected an own-initiative report by portuguese mep edite estrela (s&d) on sexuality and gender. this report made recommendations to the member states on the modalities of teaching sex education to children. i am particularly concerned with education issues in my professional life. as early as october, i had opposed the referral of this text to committee, in order to avoid a second debate on it and to allow members to concentrate on other priorities. a majority of members nevertheless voted in favour of extending the debate, which led to a resolution by the centre-right political group which i supported, based on a clear argument: the development of educational programmes is the sole responsibility of the member states.
in writing. we rejected the report by the socialist edite estrela on sexual and reproductive health and rights, replacing it with an alternative resolution by my group, the epp, which annulled the report. the estrela report was strongly opposed by the meps who were members of the ump. we have already had the opportunity to express our disapproval of its content and of the very principle of its relevance. the text defended a very too wide view of sexual reproductive rights issues, and, without any discrimination, relayed the demands of some of the most militant and extremist lobbies in this cause, in particular with regard to medically assisted procreation (map) or compulsory sex education. the rejection of this report was a real coup de théâtre, since the left was in the habit of imposing a balance of power in its favour, especially in the committee on women's rights, from which the text was drawn. it was the rapporteur's dogmatism and disregard for the views of our political family that led to the rejection of her report. the adopted substitute text calls for the principle of subsidiarity to be respected.
in writing. parliament was to take a fresh vote on the report by mrs estrela on 'sexual and reproductive rights'. before the vote, the conservatives tabled an amendment replacing the proposals with a short text explaining that 'the development and implementation of policies on sexual and reproductive rights and on sex education in schools is a matter for the member states'. in october, the right wing of parliament had already made a name for itself by successfully referring the estrela report back to committee. the estrela report remained largely beneficial to women, with the right to abortion and contraception, compulsory and non-discriminatory sex education, affirmation of lgbt rights, and decriminalization of health professionals who perform abortions, as well as women who undergo them. even though the report was not binding, the conservative right mobilized en masse to overturn it. i have supported this report from the beginning.
in writing. i voted against the report on sexual and reproductive health and rights because these are matters which are not the competence of the european union but of the member states, as provided for by the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) are fundamental rights related to the ability to make one's own decisions about sexuality and reproduction. they are essential elements of human dignity, human development and social well-being. i believe that this report has positive aims such as the obligation to educate young people about sexual health and contraception in order to prevent teenagers from becoming parents at an earlier age. the report also calls for the eu to play an important role in promoting, implementing and protecting the sdgs at international level. for all these commendable elements, i have decided to support the report.
in writing. the economic crisis and successive waves of austerity measures that led to the reduction of public budgets have resulted in a decrease in access to and quality of health services for women, and a reduction in funding for sex education courses. the estrela resolution was intended to reaffirm the need for access to contraception and sex education and to recall the importance of family planning, in order to give women the choice to decide how many children they want and to reduce unintended teenage pregnancies. it is by informing and accompanying women and girls that they can be in a position to make the best decisions for themselves. i voted in favour of this resolution, although it was not enough because of the alliances and the pressure of the conservatives. i am outraged by the hard work and means developed against the adoption of this non-binding resolution. who can presume to oppose women's access to the services that can be made available to them and to the rights that are due to them to help and accompany them on the path to freedom and equality?
in writing. this is the second time in a few months that the estrela report on sexual and reproductive rights has been submitted to the european parliament. for several weeks it had been the subject of a campaign of lies by lobbyists, particularly those of the catholic fundamentalists, including those who oppose marriage for all in france. the report was, however, only a snapshot of the situation regarding sexual and reproductive rights in the eu, recalling the right to respect for the freedom to control contraception and the need for health services accessible to all. the right wing of this house has used the argument of subsidiarity to refuse to vote on this report which merely reaffirms the traditional positions of the european parliament and has instead voted on a meaningless alternative resolution with the support of the far right. the european parliament spends a great deal of its time voting recommendations to the member states. and there is no mention of any challenge to the sovereignty of the member states. this refusal is therefore purely electoral, under pressure from the most reactionary lobbies. i therefore voted against the alternative resolution tabled by the epp without hesitation.
in writing. i have decided to support the alternative resolution of my epp political group calling for the rejection of this report on the sexual education of children. beyond the approximate and even dangerous content of this report, i am opposed to the very principle that the eu can decide on this kind of issue, which is obviously a matter of subsidiarity and should be dealt with only at the level of the member states. it is high time that our assembly did a more selective job of sorting out the reports and topics it wishes to deal with. the eu's desire to be all-inclusive goes beyond its mandate, its capacity to be useful and its credibility in the eyes of its citizens. it is the responsibility of each of us not to go beyond our area of competence, because this contributes to the growth of europhobia, which we are also trying to combat.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on voluntary activities in europe. volunteering is an expression of commitment, support and active participation in social life. the creation of a european skills passport, presenting a comprehensive overview of volunteers' skills through official recognition, for professional purposes as well as for learning purposes, is a clear example of this. the current economic crisis has certainly put a strain on activities which by their nature have no immediate economic interest. however, the success of the activities carried out has shown that, even in difficult times, solidarity prevails over retreat.
in writing. i voted for the scurria report calling on the member states of the union to set up a framework which is conducive to the various forms of volunteering that exist within the european union. the report calls for the creation of a single european service responsible for coordinating the various institutions responsible for voluntary activities. as an active involvement of civil society, volunteering needs to be strengthened. i therefore support the establishment of training courses for this type of commitment. i also support facilitating access to european funding for non-governmental organisations.
in writing. the vote on this text underlines the importance of volunteering, especially for sports and leisure activities. it called for the rights of volunteers to be strengthened, in particular by asking the member states to make insurance coverage for these workers compulsory. volunteering is not only a professional added value but also a sign of solidarity between generations. the aim of the text is to promote european voluntary service in universities and other higher education institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report presented by the commission on the broad lines of the 2011 european year of volunteering, as i believe it is important to develop this type of action at european level. in many member states, this action has helped to establish a genuine legislative framework for volunteering, as was the case in bulgaria, lithuania and slovenia. the 2011 year of volunteering was also the founding element of the 2013 european year of citizens. moreover, these projects continue to spread european citizenship and membership, which i can only welcome.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report on volunteering and voluntary activities in europe. as millions of young people across europe volunteer every day in europe, it was essential that parliament conveyed its recommendations on the future of european volunteering policy in a precise and clear manner. we have thus highlighted the benefits of volunteering, whether in encouraging intercultural learning, creating a sense of european identity or developing solidarity between generations. the report also sheds light on some of the current dysfunctions and shortcomings of volunteering. we stress the need to guarantee safe and quality work for all. the house particularly wants an environment conducive to volunteering to be created, in particular by the introduction of a legislative framework which is still lacking today. among our main recommendations is the adoption of a european statute for voluntary associations to promote their legal and institutional recognition.
in writing. on tuesday 10 december, the european parliament adopted a resolution to take stock of the european year of volunteering 2011 and to outline prospects for the future. we found that this european year has enabled several member states to implement measures to develop the voluntary sector and to obtain more accurate data on voluntary activities in europe. we called on member states to step up their efforts to recognise and promote volunteering as a great school for acquiring skills that are very useful in the labour market. we have also encouraged better coordination between the european services responsible for this issue. i voted in favour of this text because i consider it very important to recognise the essential role of volunteers in european societies and to facilitate and highlight their commitment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on volunteering and volunteering activities in europe, which, following the european year of volunteering 2011, calls on member states to define a legal framework for the recognition of volunteering in the member states and to have comparable data to know the valuable contribution of volunteering to society.
in writing. solidarity is one of the pillars of the european project. i am proud to have supported this text. this is further proof that europe is a place of solidarity. it was important, after the european year of volunteering in 2011, to drastically improve the framework offered. both for the volunteers and the volunteers themselves, and for the organizations that host them. i am talking about working conditions, tasks, relations with public institutions and the promotion of volunteering among the public.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on volunteering in the european union. we are right to want to support these activities, which are beneficial in all respects: solidarity, social inclusion and innovation, local and even cross-border development, economic and humanitarian potential in particular. among the many proposals in the report, two in particular win my support. firstly, the idea of a european skills passport, which would make it possible to officially recognise the skills acquired through volunteering, both at the professional and educational level. secondly, the establishment of a european statute for associations and a training and qualification framework for volunteer trainers, integrated into the european framework of certifications, in order to develop the framework for volunteering at a multinational level. i would also like to point out the interesting idea of creating a simplified visa system for third country nationals who wish to go to the union to volunteer there.
in writing. volunteering activities experienced a significant upsurge in 2011, the european year of volunteering. but the development of volunteering activities has been far beyond the year 2011 alone. like my colleagues, i believe that a common european approach to volunteering will create more opportunities for the mobility and employability of young people, in particular by enabling them to acquire useful skills. i therefore believe that we could go further by adopting the solutions proposed by the international labour organisation in the field of volunteering, in order to make our action international, in addition to our european actions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report although i regret the choice of the english term 'voluntary' instead of the appropriate term 'volunteer'. i welcome the fact that many of my amendments have been incorporated, in particular the one reiterating the request for a european statute for associations, after the long silence of the commission on this matter and the request for clarification of the concept of subsidies to associations, with the aim of providing financial support to associations, often the first victims of budgetary restrictions. this report is a step in the right direction, as it is important to give greater value to voluntary activities. volunteering is an essential factor for individual and collective emancipation, solidarity and social cohesion. parliament also called on the member states to ensure better protection for volunteers. the proposal to abolish visas for volunteers was rejected by a large majority of members. the same anti-immigrant obsession, even though the european parliament did not want to impose any obligations in this area. a possibility to relax these visas was nevertheless maintained. this is a good thing, even if it is not binding on the states.
for the greens/efa group madam president, what my green/efa group has done, thanks to the patience and listening skills of mr kukan, whom i thank, on the neighbourhood instrument, is to try to make it a suitable instrument to support and implement the new approach that has been developed after 2011. this new approach has put the question of democracy, the rule of law and freedoms at the centre of its concerns, drawing on the lessons of past policy, which finally allowed us to see that without democratic reform, there was no possible deepening of cooperation with the neighbouring countries in all the dimensions of this cooperation. i welcome the fact that democracy and human rights are now at the heart of the instrument, and that specific indicators have been developed to allow progress to be made and to evaluate the action being taken. it will be embodied in the principle of more for more which is also a principle of less for less. it is a way of supporting democratic reforms for the most ambitious countries, knowing that under no circumstances can civil society be affected by a less for less principle. moreover, civil society - although i understand that this was the case in the other instruments of this foreign policy - is recognised in the breadth of its indispensable role in the development, implementation and evaluation of our neighbourhood policy, and i believe that it is very happy in this respect.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and the entire negotiating team of the committee on development on the development instrument. after months of negotiations, this agreement is welcome. it allows parliament to decide, on the same lines as the council, on the strategic choices for financing development cooperation and to have a democratic right of review. but we're not lying! at a time when funds are scarce, when there is a great temptation to finance expenditure outside the oda or to give the wrong preference to trade liberalization in order to combat poverty, we would have liked to have had more, more funds, more influence on their allocation by country and their distribution by area of cooperation. that is why my green/efa group decided to abstain in the vote in committee. as for the form, let me say, as chairman of the committee on development, that i am somewhat disappointed. we have always advocated a strict separation of negotiations between the external instruments under the committee on development and the committee on foreign affairs. however, as with the banana measures in 2011, my colleagues have been under considerable pressure to accept the proposed compromises, otherwise the whole of the external instruments agreement would collapse. what do we gain by dividing ourselves against the council? i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should have remained firm and united to the end if we were to make full use of the prerogatives granted to us by the treaty of lisbon.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, as every year, we are examining the report on human rights and democracy in the world. i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mr kukan, for his leading-edge approach, rejecting the country-by-country approach, and focusing on the essentials and avoiding double standards. unfortunately, he couldn't hold that line completely. some of the countries mentioned are still the same obsessive countries; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. worse still, we welcome free trade agreements, particularly the ftas, when we all know how much the clauses on democracy and human rights are flouted in the implementation of these agreements. we would have liked a more objective approach, less oriented towards the political, strategic and economic interests of the european union and especially its member states. we would like the european union to change its policies, particularly in the maghreb, by drawing lessons from the popular uprisings. it's not. the european parliament could do better, much better, be more demanding, more objective, give a more operational vision of what it expects from the union in the field of human rights. for all these reasons, we shall abstain on this report.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some member states wanted to condemn the fund. some member states wanted to think that we had got out of the crisis and that we no longer needed it. the european parliament has said from the beginning that we need to maintain this fund, that we need to maintain the 'crisis' criterion, because the reality is that too many companies are still experiencing crisis situations, and workers are the victims. we welcome the fact that the commission and the member states, including through electoral developments, have enabled us to save this fund, to make it, at the moment, the only instrument that comes directly to the aid of workers who are victims of the crisis and globalisation. we also welcome the broadening of the criteria, which allows the selfemployed to be covered by the 60% financing rate. mrs. bauer reminded us that we would have liked to go further. we welcome the fact that from now on workers will be able to be assisted in the recovery of their productive tools. we welcome the fact that, at the initiative of the european parliament, the extension of the benefit of this fund to young people has been refocused on the very purpose of the fund, namely support for unskilled young people in the regions affected by these restructurings. it is now up to the member states to make full use of this fund. this requires the full involvement of local public authorities and the social partners in order to do so effectively.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all on ukraine, we are very attentive to what is happening. i regret that the government has not signed the association agreement. this refusal has led the ukrainian people to mobilize massively to defend a free ukraine that respects fundamental rights. i also want to say to the citizens of ukraine that we stand with them and condemn any form of violence against them. this is a very serious time. this could explode and i call for a european mediation mission at the highest political level, just as during the orange revolution, to find transparent and democratic solutions. the ukrainian citizens are sending us a message. they tell us that we need a strong europe. it's a , and i regret it; i am not sorry, i am rather glad that we see more european flags there, which we see less and less in our different countries. europe needs strong ambition and in laying the foundations for a genuine economic union we have been ambitious. just five years ago, the decisions we made were unthinkable. but those decisions were good ones. on the other hand, the member states have lost none of their identity. the six-pack and the european semester are working. it's not perfect, but all over europe we are still seeing small signs of recovery and we are also seeing that we are all interconnected. so we have to work together even more, whether we like it or not. in fact, look at the economic sectors. what are they doing? they work together, and the political sector wants to get back into a little corner in each country. this is completely absurd! national budgets are not infinitely extensible and not all policies are financiable. the defence, for example, is, and i agree with mr šefčovič. i know that it is often difficult to talk about this, but some member states already spend less than the two per cent of their gdp needed for defence. if europe does not organise itself in terms of defence, we will not exist in the new world order. we were naive. the end of the cold war was a big factor. the world is changing. look at what's happening in libya, mali, kosovo, the central african republic. look at the slaughter of poor people, citizens, in the central african republic. europe has a role to play and must be present. these are tasks which europe will increasingly face. the united states, moreover, considers the balkans to be our responsibility. if we don't take it, it's all right, the russians will take it for us. just look at what is happening in our neighbourhood, in ukraine, in moldova. moreover, some of our strategic interests may be threatened by regional powers. we must be prepared - as i have said many times here in this house - not to make war, but to maintain peace. and i'm back in the central african republic, when you see these images on tv... but we will not succeed alone and we must work to strengthen our common security and defence policy in the next parliament if we are to exist in the world. if we want to protect our borders, this means that we must also strengthen our response capability militarily and with joint forces. the eurocorps is a breakthrough, but i know it's only the beginning. the nine member states contribute to our common security, but that must change or we will accept the whole of the world's misery. i would like to make no mistake about it, but we also need to increase development aid to develop these countries at home. but to do this - and i will take the example of the central african republic, because these images shocked me last night when i watched tv here - in the case of the central african republic, two things are needed: we need to maintain order now to avoid tragedies, and we need development aid worthy of the name. i will also come back to this - you took my entire speech, mr šefčovič, this morning - the equipment of our armed forces must also change. we need to pool our research and development resources. we can't afford to keep working the way we're working. we have -- you said that -- different types of hardware. i am not an expert on materials, but we must work with nato so that we can have a proper arms industry here too, which can survive in europe. otherwise, it's not viable. we have the best defense technology, we have the best left. we must act together at european level if we are to keep them and we must do so as we have approached the economic crisis. we need the six-pack of defense, because the six-pack is the new fashion, with clear commitments and goals that are not taboo. speaking of ambition, ladies and gentlemen, the question that arises today when we look at this development, which is normal, since after revolutions there are developments, is that we must also rethink - as i have already told some colleagues - the six-pack on justice, the functioning of the judiciary in europe. i know this is a difficult case to deal with. i do not mean that we have to defend mr x or mr y, but we have judicial functions that were not put in place after the accession of many countries, at the level of the european union, which were not completed to the end. we must not and cannot neglect this commitment at european level. we must think about this now when we see what is happening in some of our european countries. europe is a community of values, of shared responsibilities. europe must become stronger if it is to have a place in the new world order, and to all those who want less europe, i say: 'we will need more europe tomorrow', because those who say we need less europe are wrong and will see it very quickly. we must defend our shared values and move forward. we must do this for the future and the sovereignty of our continent.
the question is "blue cardboard". you have quoted the representatives of the french people who were right not to entrust the defence of the french nation to europe because europe was not ready at the time. do you really believe that the european union is now capable of defending its peoples? do you think you can defend europe without the states, and especially the big states, which are capable of having the best armies in the world? do you think the european union is really ready today?
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, my first words will be to express my regret at the absence of the president of the european council. i have made the proposal, mr president, that he be invited. i don't know if he wasn't invited or if he refuses to come. we no longer have relations with the heads of state or government. the european council is meeting and we are not having a debate with them. i do not dispute the competence of the general affairs council, but i regret that it is not here. defence industrial policy is a sector with particular characteristics, such as long periods of product development, obligations to maintain systems in service for several decades and a strong public procurement characteristic. we must have a european industrial policy for defence. i thank the commission for its excellent report. we - the european parliament - have proposed the creation of a status of defence economic operators in europe, to which funding would be reserved, to ensure that employment is on the continent, that the decision-making of these companies and production is on the continent of europe, and that we can develop defence industrial standards, certification and be autonomous. we were right to develop galileo - when we see the american spy - and to send our 30 satellites. we must do the same for defence and i welcome the action of the chairman of our subcommittee, arnaud danjean, on all that is being done in the field of defence. i wonder, moreover, whether we should not have more intensive interparliamentary cooperation with national parliaments on defence. we must involve our national parliamentarians and give the european defence agency a greater role. i shall end with the european semester. i have heard the proposal for a social scoreboard, but we must go much further than that. why are we not achieving greater social convergence on the basis of minimum social standards? the political agreement on the social minimum in germany is good news. the contagion must spread throughout central europe so that all the former communist countries are in fact moving towards social minimum wages and we have the political will to include them in the cost price chain.
mr president, the directive on the posting of workers is a symbol of the cynicism and folly of your european union. we are now faced with the organization of intra-european social dumping. but that was your objective, and it was twofold: lower wages and the collapse of the social protection systems of the most advanced countries in this field. we are experiencing a social levelling down and the electoral gestures of the labour ministers will not change that. everyone shouted, "victory! they have managed to agree on fighting fraud". what a deal! we thought the fight against fraud had been done for a long time. but this does not call into question the substance of the directive, which is devastating and leads to ever more unemployment, more competition between companies in the same territory and aggressive competition from certain countries which take advantage of the system to attack their european competitors. do you really believe that the electorate will accept that a foreign preference be instituted in my country to the detriment of the french and to the benefit of other european workers? i will say one thing to you in conclusion, things are now clear: your europe is at war! it's the economic war and it's the social war! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, do you think that french companies and, incidentally, french voters, perhaps, are fools? they have seen the consequences of this directive: same salary - yes, of course - but social charges in the country of origin. and the consequence of this directive, madam, is 40,000 jobs lost. 40,000 jobs lost in the building industry! (protests) ma'am, if you have something to say, you'll lift up the little blue card that you have on your desk, okay? thank you! that's 40,000 jobs lost to construction. this obviously creates a foreign preference, since companies are now obliged, in order to be competitive, to use workers whose social costs are minimal in certain european countries compared to those which guarantee additional protection, that is to say france.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, you have heard it, this parliament does not want these contracts. the reality is that the contracts you want to put in place are a kind of soft troika to impose structural reforms against the equity and cohesion of certain member states, especially since you tell us that perhaps - the council tells us that perhaps - incentives will come one day. we don't believe in that. we want both of them together. on the banking resolution, i am concerned about the conclusions of the ecofin council. this european parliament knows that. in the field of financial solidarity, we need the community method. with the european stability mechanism, you wanted a fully intergovernmental solution. this is not the way we want to go. this is not the way in which this european parliament has succeeded in tearing down the first pillar of the banking union with the single supervisory system. mr president-in-office of the council, listen to me and understand that the social dimension is not at issue. can the council representative hear me? do you mind listening to me? thank you! the social dimension is not the issue. you have received a mandate from your predecessors in previous european councils to deal with the question of the social dimension. you asked the commission to put a communication on the table. that communication is there. it tells you that you have to put indicators in place first. we're telling you that the indicators, you barely need them. they must be included in the procedure, but they must be used, because what these indicators will tell you is what eurostat says: 125 million people are today at risk of poverty and social exclusion, a quarter of the population of the european union. it's time to act! finally, on the tax aspect, i want to support my colleague kleva kekuš. we are waiting for results in this area and i hope that the developments in luxembourg will finally allow us to seriously tackle the question of revising the directive on taxation of savings, because otherwise the member states' budgets will be short of the one trillion euro needed to reduce both their public deficit and their debt.
in writing. after the 2007 crisis, the emergency mobilisation of public funds to bail out european banks was very unpopular with citizens, who rightly asked us to better regulate these financial institutions. today, i think i can say that we are meeting those demands. after adopting new capital and debt requirements for banks and giving the ecb the role of bank policeman, we are on the verge of creating a private bail-out mechanism for distressed banks. in future, rather than asking the taxpayers, it will be the bank's managers, shareholders and creditors who will be mobilized. if that is not enough, a bank resolution fund fuelled by bank taxes of around €50 billion or €60 billion will come in to help with the restructuring. the european stability mechanism (esm), originally designed to help states that are having difficulty financing themselves, may eventually be able to intervene to complete the bailout. the taxpayer can therefore only be approached as a last resort.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which extends the pericles programme until 2020. it contributes to raising awareness among eu citizens of the need to strengthen the protection of the euro. because of its importance as a global currency, the euro requires international protection, which can be ensured by providing the funds needed to purchase equipment for use, for example, by agencies in european and third countries for their investigations into counterfeiting of euro coins.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mcintyre report on an action programme for transnational cooperation between the member states of the union to combat euro counterfeiting. the monetary stability of the euro is fundamental to avoiding any disruption to the european economy. i therefore support the recommendations in this report calling for financial support for services responsible for detecting and combating counterfeiting.
in writing. in preparation for the pericles 2020 programme, this text encourages cooperation between states inside and outside the union to safeguard the euro against counterfeiting. it rightly stressed the need to concentrate this effort on the member states and third countries with the highest rates of counterfeiting.
in writing. the proposal determines the financial allocation to be granted for the four years covered by the european statistical programme 2013-2017. the european statistical programme aims to provide timely statistical information to support the development, monitoring and evaluation of union policies. the aim is to meet the needs of the wide range of users of european statistics, including policy-makers, researchers, businesses and european citizens in general. however, it is noted that the quality of european statistics is much lower than that of national statistics, especially french statistics. this is particularly so since this programme involves the transmission of national data without prior analysis, which is tantamount to preparing for the extinction of this function in the states in favour of a single body: volapuk. i vote against it.
in writing. pericles 2020 is an exchange, assistance and training programme to combat counterfeiting of the euro. it will in particular help to protect coins and banknotes from counterfeiting by supporting the member states and the competent european and national authorities in their efforts to cooperate with the commission. third countries and competent international organisations are also concerned. the programme should therefore be able to provide active support for the fight against this particular form of organised crime, and i have given my support to it accordingly.
in writing. the union and the member states have set themselves the objective of establishing the measures necessary for the use of the euro as a single currency. due to its importance as a global currency, the euro requires protection at international level, which can be ensured by making available the funds necessary for the purchase of equipment used in counterfeiting investigations. these measures were previously scattered over several pieces of legislation. following an overall impact assessment, the european commission decided to revise the basic texts of the programme to make them more concrete and effective. i have wanted to support this reform which i believe is necessary for the future.
in writing. the action programme on trade, assistance and training for the protection of the euro and against counterfeiting is coming to an end at the end of 2013 and is to be replaced for the period 2014-2020. the programme appears to have played an important role in the fight against counterfeiting by promoting cooperation between national, european and international authorities. it should be noted, however, that the euro is not counterfeited on a large scale. i voted for this report even though i regret that it proposes that private entities, even those with expertise in this field, should participate in this programme. control of the currency, even if it is false, should not be left to the private sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the zalba bidegain report approving the allocation of €234.8 million for the european statistical programme for the period 2014-2020. the production of european statistics is essential for the formulation of european policies. for the implementation of a policy to be relevant, a comprehensive and realistic view of the issues on which the union is competent is essential. thus, in the wake of european legislation, the european statistical programme is a key instrument in serving the daily concerns of citizens.
in writing. this text amends the regulation on the european statistical programme 2013-2017 as regards the financial allocation of the programme. this measure aligns the financial envelope for this programme with the adoption of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. i welcome this effort to adapt european programmes to the new budgetary constraints.
in writing. a few cases of domestic workers becoming "domestic slaves" made headlines because their employers were famous people. but how many cases are never in the news? our vote today is to authorize the member states of the union and therefore also to ask them to ratify ilo convention no 189 on decent work for domestic workers. the aim is to ensure that these workers, who are particularly vulnerable, have decent working conditions with social rights and to combat violence and all forms of abuse, including child labour. the convention entered into force on 5 september last; the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because ilo convention no 189 requires the protection of domestic workers, who are often women and migrants, and are often exposed to discrimination and various types of abuse which constitute serious violations of human rights. in several countries of the union, domestic work is characterized by precariousness, the absence of a contract of employment, late payment of wages, the requirement of overtime without compensation, non-respect of the right to rest and leave periods, non-payment of holidays or vacations, non-payment of social security amounts, among others. it should be noted that the convention does provide that ratification of the convention must not affect the more favourable provisions applicable to the rights of domestic workers (article 19).
in writing. i supported the adoption of the zuber report calling on the member states of the european union to ratify the international labour organisation (ilo) convention on decent work for domestic workers. in order to combat domestic slavery, the adoption of this report introduces guarantees relating to the fundamental rights of such workers, in particular respect for human rights and their legal rights, as well as the right to free movement.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this text which aims to protect the rights of domestic workers. it encourages the framing of a status which is still too approximate by offering a series of guarantees to these workers. this includes the social rights attached to domestic workers' working conditions and the prevention of abuse, violence and child labour in domestic work.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which seeks to ratify the international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers. this proposal is part of the european union's strategy to eradicate trafficking in human beings. this text will oblige the signatory states to take measures to prevent acts of violence is the assurance of a consideration of this problem, which i can only encourage.
in writing. domestic workers are an important but largely invisible labour force in europe. domestic workers, who are predominantly women, many of whom are of migrant origin, are extremely vulnerable to mass exploitation. by giving its green light for the member states to ratify the 2011 international labour organisation convention on domestic work, parliament is thus contributing to the eu's drive for decent work for all, of which the protection and improvement of workers' working conditions are important aspects. it is essential that the european union should have the existing instruments to help combat the exploitation and abuse of domestic workers effectively. the ratification of ilo conventions by member states in general and of the domestic workers convention in particular will enable the eu to improve the effectiveness, coordination and coherence of the fight against trafficking in human beings.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to ensure that member states ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2011 international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers. the convention entered into force in september 2013 and provides guarantees on the fundamental principles concerning the rights of domestic workers, and respect for their human and legal rights.
in writing. the resolution before us supports the establishment of a convention for domestic workers. this text provides legal tools and definitions for states and refers to the major standards on rights at international level. it lays down, in particular, obligations on the establishment of judicial and control mechanisms. even if the abolition of austerity policies is necessary to ensure consistent respect for the principles of defending workers' rights as laid down in this convention, i support these advances and i vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by ines zuber, portuguese member of parliament for my group, the gue/ngl. this report calls on member states to ratify a 2011 international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers. this convention underlines the urgent need to grant such persons the same rights, protections and social security cover as any other employee. it is intolerable that even today employees are left without recourse to abuse by their employers. i am glad that this report has been adopted because it is high time that the member states took up this issue which concerns the most vulnerable groups of the population. the main victims are women, particularly migrant women, often without papers, who work in isolation, making collective action virtually impossible. it is to be hoped that this appeal will be heard by the member states. unfortunately, nothing is less certain because such a text has no binding force on the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the conclusion of the protocol will lay the foundations for the gradual opening up of certain eu programmes to armenia or for the country's increased participation in them, which will not only strengthen ties in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science, intensify people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, but also consolidate political relations in favour of the eastern partnership and the association agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-armenia framework agreement to allow armenia to participate in the work of community agencies and in specific community programmes open to the participation of third states, in order to promote reform, modernisation and transition in armenia. the agreement will allow the eu to strengthen its links with armenia in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science.
in writing. this partnership will allow armenia to participate in eu programmes in the fields of cultural, environmental and other cooperation. these proposals are not bad in themselves, but this protocol is part of the european neighbourhood policy, whose primary objective is to prepare the economies of neighbouring states for the establishment of deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas), to the detriment of the latter. the republic of armenia refused to sign the free trade agreement at the vilnius summit last november. the european union is the watchdog of the imf and of neoliberal economic conditions. this protocol cannot be taken out of its political context, and i am voting against it.
in writing. relations between the eu and armenia have been continuously deepening since 2007. the european parliament's plenary session last october was an example of this. the same time, a readmission agreement was voted on, which is still unacceptable from a migration point of view, and a visa liberalisation agreement, which is in the right direction but is rather hypothetical. the report adopted on 11 december 2013 concerns armenia's participation in the neighbourhood policy (nep) and has consequently benefited from certain eu programmes. negotiations with armenia have been ongoing since april 2012. i voted in favour of this agreement because it will allow armenia to benefit from eu assistance in particular in the cultural, educational, environmental and scientific fields, unfortunately, the establishment of this cooperation is being carried out in parallel with negotiations for the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) between the eu and armenia.
in writing. as saint-barthélemy ceased to be an outermost region of the union on 1 january 2012 when it acquired the status of an overseas country and territory, france had undertaken to conclude the necessary agreements to ensure that the interests of the union were safeguarded. the aim of this agreement is therefore to ensure that the union's taxation and savings legislation continues to apply to saint barthélemy despite its change of status, which i supported.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because since 29 october 2010 the territorial community of the island of saint barthélemy has ceased to be an outermost region of the union and has acquired the status of an overseas country and territory, with effect from 1 january 2012. decision 2010/718/eu specifies that france has undertaken to conclude the necessary agreements to ensure that the interests of the union are protected in the light of these developments. in order to move forward in this direction, the european commission in 2011 authorised france to negotiate the terms of the agreement. more specifically, the authorisation concerns an agreement between the french republic, acting on behalf of saint-barthélemy, and the european union providing for the application, with regard to that territory, of union legislation on the taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation.
in writing. in view of the change in the status of the municipality of saint-barthélemy, it seems legitimate that the rules should be imposed in a uniform manner on the territory in the metropolitan area as well as overseas. it is important to pay particular attention to taxation issues during this period. the text allows saint-barthélemy to apply the same rules of administrative cooperation in tax matters and taxation of savings as metropolitan france.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which promotes transparency in financial cooperation between saint barthélemy and the european union. saint barthélemy has enjoyed a relatively favourable tax situation, but at a time when the european union is trying to promote tax transparency, the particularity of this island is becoming a source of conflict. the european union now has a precise arsenal of legislation. as a result, various tax mechanisms have been created, such as dispute settlement, and the aim is that the tax systems applicable to saint-barthélemy should be equivalent to those applicable in metropolitan france. i therefore welcome the efforts made in the field of tax transparency to clarify this situation.
in writing. saint barthélemy is a french territory with a very special status. since 1 january 2012, it is no longer considered an outermost region of the eu but an overseas country and territory. as such, although the island is still a french territorial collectivity, it is no longer part of the european union. however, the purpose of the agreement between the union and france is to apply european legislation on taxation of savings and cooperation between tax administrations on the island. that is a laudable goal. this meagre european harmonisation of taxation of savings will, however, remain a dead letter in the absence of any action by the french government to challenge the status of saint-barthélemy as a tax haven. the eu is also ill-placed to teach lessons in the fight against tax evasion, since it accepts well-known tax havens such as luxembourg. i am voting against this agreement which enshrines the common hypocrisy of the netherlands and the eu in relation to tax havens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to allow spain to exempt the canary islands from a tax on certain locally produced products. the purpose of this extension is to support economic activity in this outermost region.
in writing. council decision no 2 of 20 june 2002 authorises spain to provide, until 31 december 2011, for exemptions or reductions from the tax on arbitrary imports and deliveries of goods in the canary islands (aiem) applicable to certain products manufactured locally in the canary islands. the council has already extended its period of application until 31 december 2013. the report proposed to extend its application until 1 july 2014, when it will enter into force. this decision will support the diversification of the canary islands' economy and reduce its dependence on tourism. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it recalls that the european union and its member states must respect the commitments they have made in the paris declaration, the accra programme of action and the busan global partnership for effective development cooperation, the main obstacles to this being the lack of political will, bureaucracy and high transaction costs.
in writing. this text encourages the implementation of enhanced donor coordination mechanisms within the union. these measures could save €800 million in transaction costs if the eu and its member states focused their aid efforts. moreover, it reaffirms the importance of developing entrepreneurship in these countries, taking into account their different levels of development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on eu donor coordination on development aid. as eu development aid overlaps with the aid programmes of individual member states, it seems important to me to take stock of the different schemes in order to coordinate them to make them more effective and reduce administrative costs.
in writing. this resolution calls on the european union and its member states to improve the effectiveness of development cooperation. the aim is to tackle the obstacles to the effective use of these funds. while the report, in good liberal logic, insists on bureaucratic delays as the main obstacle to effective cooperation, corruption and the european corrupters have been silenced. and the report stresses 'the importance of free trade and the market economy'. but it is precisely the liberalisation and commodification of the economies of the south, promoted by the eu, that is now jeopardising their development. i vote against it.
in writing. disasters cause considerable economic losses and very heavy human losses. according to the united nations, disasters have affected 64 percent of the world's population in the last 20 years, caused 1.3 million deaths and $2 trillion in damage. more than 95% of humanitarian funding is allocated to responding to disasters and their consequences, and less than 5% to reducing their likelihood. we need to change these paradigms. this report calls for this, in particular through better risk analysis and management to reduce vulnerability to disasters, and also through better involvement of society as a whole (local authorities, civil society organisations and citizens). it also recognised that food and nutritional insecurity was one of the most important causes of vulnerability and therefore called for the elimination of practices such as dumping of agricultural products and unfair trade regulations. all of this is full of good intentions. i have no illusions about the will to implement them, but i voted in favour.
in writing. under the treaty on the functioning of the european union (article 286), the european parliament is consulted when appointing the members of the court of auditors. the council then appoints these members for six years on the basis of proposals made by the member states. parliament approved the choice of the british candidate phil wynn owen after examining his curriculum vitae and statements made in response to questions put to him. that was also the meaning of my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this appointment following the favourable opinion delivered after the hearing of 7 november 2013 by the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i supported the appointment of phil wynn as a member of the court of auditors. i agree with the decision of the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, which by a large majority considered that this candidate has the necessary qualifications to be able to bring his expertise to the control of the union's finances.
in writing. phil wynn owen is seen by the good people of european society as a player in the fight against climate change. in 2012, he was a member of the jury of the international green award, a prize for positive initiatives in the field of the environment. this prize is awarded annually to large companies with a so-called sustainable development model. in 2011, for example, it was the anti-social multinational unilever that won. unilever eco: it is not the opinion of the elephant tea cooperators that she wants to kill. in reality, phil wynn owen, educated at oxford, the london business school and harvard, is the only one who embodies the illusion that there can be a 'green capitalism'. i believe that capitalism is the cause of climate change, and that the only way to solve this major problem of humanity is to completely change the economic, social and political model. this is what i tried to demonstrate in my book: the green rule. without ecological planning and ecosocialism, there is no salvation for our planet and our ecosystem.
in writing. under the treaty on the functioning of the european union (article 286), the european parliament is consulted when appointing the members of the court of auditors. the council then appoints these members for six years on the basis of proposals made by the member states. parliament gave a favourable opinion on the appointment of mr alex brenninkmeijer, who was a national ombudsman in his country, as a dutch member of the court of auditors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this appointment following the favourable opinion delivered after the hearing of 7 november 2013 by the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i supported the appointment of alex brenninkmeijer as a member of the court of auditors. i agree with the decision of the parliamentary committee on budgetary control that he has the qualifications to be able to control the union's finances effectively.
in writing. it is difficult to obtain reliable information about mr brenninkmeijer in france, since his works have been little or not translated into french. however, my research has revealed several things, including that he has been interested in issues such as detention of foreigners, deaths in custody, police violence, freedom of assembly and household debt. for example, he has shown that some of the situations of excessive indebtedness in the netherlands could be avoided with a less bureaucratic and more empathetic public system. at the same time, some of mr brenninkmeijer's recommendations are part of a logic of reducing public spending and thus potentially reducing the public service. not having access to this man's work in any language other than dutch, it is difficult for me to know in what sense he is trying to influence public policy (reduction of public service or efficiency of spending?). i'll hold off.
in writing. i voted in favour of this appointment following the favourable opinion delivered after the hearing of 7 november 2013 by the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i supported the appointment of henri grethen as a member of the court of auditors. i agree with the decision of the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, which was overwhelmingly of the opinion that its expertise in this area would enable it to exercise strict control over the union's finances.
in writing. henri grethen is the typical representative of the hardest neoliberal right. in the 1970s and 1980s he was first economic adviser and then general secretary of the luxembourg confederation of commerce, an employers' union. he then became minister of economy and transport in the government of jean-claude juncker, the former president of the eurogroup, who bled people to save the banks. in a recent interview with a luxembourg newspaper, mr grethen said that 'more selectivity had to be introduced into the [luxembourg] social system' and that 'it had to be ensured that luxembourg funds were not penalized by excessive taxation'. the icing on the cake, he says, is that it is in the interest of citizens to maintain a certain level of competition between countries. mr grethen has an unconcealed tendency towards xenophobia. this man is a hardened austerite in my eyes. i am strongly opposed to his appointment to the court of auditors.
in writing. under the treaty on the functioning of the european union (article 286), the european parliament is consulted when appointing the members of the court of auditors. the council then appoints these members for six years on the basis of proposals made by the member states. nikolaos milionis, who is still the chief adviser to the greek court of auditors, has received a favourable opinion from parliament, including my own, for appointment to the european court of auditors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this appointment following the favourable opinion delivered after the hearing of 7 november 2013 by the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i supported the appointment of nikolaos milionis as a member of the court of auditors. i agree with the decision of the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, which by a large majority considered that he had the necessary qualifications to be able to contribute his expertise to the control of the union's finances.
in writing. nikolaos milionis is a senior civil servant who completed part of his training in france, at the university paris i panthéon-sorbonne, the university paris viii and the ena. this is a positive sign in terms of skills. he spent his entire career at the greek court of auditors, an institution which proved incapable of exposing the falsification of greek state accounts carried out with the help of goldman sachs. mr milionis was not necessarily a member of the chamber responsible for detecting these errors, but he was in any case an active member of an institution clearly incapable of effectively performing one of its main tasks: the certification of public accounts. mr milionis is therefore right to say that an efficient public service is first and foremost about preventing corruption. i remain cautious about his appointment to the european court of auditors. i abstain to encourage the presence of well-trained officials in this institution.
in writing. under the treaty on the functioning of the european union (article 286), the european parliament is consulted when appointing the members of the court of auditors. the council then appoints these members for six years on the basis of proposals made by the member states. parliament welcomed the proposal for the appointment of the french candidate danièle lamarque, who is currently a master adviser to the court of auditors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this appointment following the favourable opinion delivered after the hearing of 7 november 2013 by the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i supported the appointment of danièle lamarque as a member of the court of auditors. i agree with the decision of the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, which considered that it has the necessary qualifications to be able to contribute its expertise to the control of the union's finances.
in writing. danièle lamarque is a french civil servant, graduated from the ens, with a degree in classics and trained at the ena, indicating a very high level of training. she was president of the regional chamber of accounts of haute-normandie and then director of international relations, european affairs and francophonie at the court of auditors. she is currently the president of the regional chamber of accounts of the paca region. danièle lamarque has therefore spent her entire career in the french civil service. she never did. under his chairmanship, important reports were published on the management of public accounts for the city of marseille, the conseil général des bouches-du-rhône and the paca regional council. on these occasions, mrs lamarque did not hesitate to denounce in her reports the worrying use of public funds. it has also always been bound by the duty of discretion inherent in its function. i'm in favor of his election.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the appointment of danièle nouy of france as head of the supervisory board of the european central bank, and in particular the single supervision of banks in the euro area. on this occasion, i am pleased to see a woman take up such a high position. an example of breaking the glass ceiling.
in writing. i voted in favour of the appointment of ms danièle nouy as chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank for a five-year term, following the favourable opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs following its hearing on 27 november 2013
in writing. i have given my approval to the appointment of ms danièle nouy as chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank (ecb) for a five-year term. i agree with the decision of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which by a very large majority considered that she has the necessary qualifications to be the chairman of the department responsible for monitoring the development of the economic and monetary policy of the european union. as regards the appointment procedure as such, i would like to point out that it is essential that parliament has a veto on all decision-making posts in the union's central bank, and beyond that on the major posts in the various european institutions. elected by the citizens, meps are the guarantors of the democratic nature of appointments to these high european posts.
in writing. the governing council of the european central bank (ecb) has itself proposed ms danièle nouy as a candidate to chair the supervisory board of the new single supervisory mechanism (ssm). it could make up for the incredible misogyny of the eu appointments. the personal qualities of mrs nouy, who even enjoys a reputation for severity towards benign bankers in this situation, are not in question here. but i refuse to vote for a chairman of the supervisory board of the european central bank until this body is subject to political control. i vote against.
in writing. i supported danièle nouy's candidacy for the post of president of the supervisory board of the european central bank (ecb). as secretary general of the french supervisory and regulatory authority (acpr) for a decade, his background, expertise and experience in international negotiations are all assets to meet the challenges that await him as soon as he takes office in november 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out common rules for six foreign policy funds, amounting to over eur 51 billion for 2014-2020. these funds cover the instrument for pre-accession assistance, assistance to the eu's neighbouring countries and partners, and measures for the maintenance of peace, democracy and human rights. it is important that eu external aid is more visible and better coordinated and that it focuses more on human rights, democracy and civil society. parliament will make european foreign policy spending more efficient and its democratic control more effective.
in writing. i voted in favour of adopting this report, which proposes a total of eur 70 billion for the main lines of the new eu foreign policy for the period 2014-2020. i support the union's commitment on the international stage based on the promotion of its fundamental principles: democracy, the rule of law and respect for human dignity. the european union also has a duty to intervene on global issues such as climate change or migration flows. the european union must have an ambitious foreign policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which establishes a common framework for the implementation of the union's instruments for external action. the establishment of common rules and procedures for the various external policy instruments available to the european union will make it possible to use the financial resources committed more efficiently. the impact of development aid policies will thus be strengthened.
in writing. this proposal sets out a set of simplified and harmonised rules and implementing arrangements applicable to the instruments for the union's external action. given the opacity surrounding eu diplomacy, i think it is inappropriate for the commission to call for the implementation of the instruments to be simplified. it adds further humiliation to the usual disregard it shows for parliament by using delegated acts instead of the codecision procedure. only this procedure would guarantee the full participation of parliament and the council in the composition and scope of external instruments and preserve the prerogatives of parliament. the nullity of the work done, the appalling absence in mali and central africa, and the presence without a mandate in the agreements with iran signal the costly and arrogant uselessness of this service. france doesn't need it. i vote against it.
in writing. i supported this report for the different conditions it sets for the implementation of the instruments, which are in line with the general principle guiding eu external action, 'more for more'. the monitoring and transparency of the use of these instruments will be strengthened. respect for democratic principles will also be a condition for the implementation of the instruments and thus marks continuity in the union's action at international level. finally, i would like to stress that provisions have been introduced to develop a real visibility of european aid in the recipient countries. i welcome the introduction of this item, which will make it possible to optimise the union's resources and its action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because thanks to the european parliament, the funding available for 2014-2020 has been doubled and we have obtained a budget of €200 million for conflict prevention. it is essential to empower ourselves to work for stability and to promote peacekeeping activities.
in writing. i support the vote on this text establishing a new stability instrument for the period 2014-2020. better conflict prevention and greater responsiveness in crisis management make the eu's development and cooperation policies more effective. this facilitates peacekeeping operations. this instrument then contributes to ensuring an environment of peace and security for both european citizens and those of the states in which the european union intervenes. in particular, it is appropriate to invite civil society and ngos to contribute to the implementation and development of european aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the instrument for stability, which will provide eu support to enhance the effectiveness and coherence of actions in conflict prevention, crisis preparedness, management and response, peacebuilding and threat management.
in writing. this report validates and amends the regulation implementing the 'instrument for stability'. this is one of the main financial instruments of the eu's external policy. it is officially aimed at the pursuit of peace, which in fact is reduced in its design to protecting the stability of markets in europe. the threats mentioned here are a blend of organized crime, terrorism, cybersecurity, and natural disasters related to global warming. the need for a stronger fight against terrorism is repeatedly stressed, but not a word is said about data protection. i am voting against this financial instrument of the opaque and illegitimate foreign policy pursued by baroness ashton without any mandate from the people. the costly and arrogant uselessness of this bureaucracy justifies this superficial arrangement. france doesn't need it.
in writing. the stability instrument addresses certain global security and development challenges, complementing the geographical instruments. it is a key instrument for crisis prevention and response, as well as for creating a stable and safe environment. it will not only deal with political crises but also with natural disasters, prevent conflict and maintain peace. i have been keen to support this instrument which has already been used on many occasions to finance crisis response projects around the world. the largest grants were for projects in africa, asia-pacific, the balkans, the middle east, latin america and the caribbean.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because, with this new neighbourhood instrument, the eu should be able to react more quickly to the changing environment of its neighbourhood, while clearly upholding democratic values and human rights.
in writing. i voted for the kukan report for an effective european neighbourhood policy for the period 2014-2020. it proposes to strengthen diplomatic, commercial and cultural relations with the 16 countries which are partners in the european union's neighbourhood policy. i also believe that the european union must strengthen its relations with the russian federation. as regards aid, a specific theme of the report, i support the conditioning of european aid to real progress in development, taking into account the human development index and local redistribution. the prosperity and stability of the european union go hand in hand with the maintenance of close and peaceful relations with all its neighbours and with the economic development of these countries.
in writing. i supported this text establishing a new european neighbourhood instrument for the period 2014-2020 which sends a strong signal to our partners. this european neighbourhood instrument promotes a strengthening of our political and economic relations with our partners. i am particularly in favour of the fact that the financial envelope and the programming process can be adjusted according to needs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european neighbourhood instrument, which provides for increased support for 16 partners located to the east and south of the european union. it is important to be able to adapt the instrument to each country in order to favour those countries which are committed to a strong and sustainable democracy.
in writing. this regulation will set out the conditions for support and cooperation with 16 of our neighbours on the new programming period 2014-2020. the european commission seems to be selling us a brand new project: 'the principle of differentiation' is also called 'more for more' in the english text. the principle is simple: those who respect the market economy will have more than others. this is the carrot for the good students but also the stick for the others: "support may be reconsidered in the event of serious or persistent failures". austerity budgets and dry bread for all. we can then rejoice at russia's participation in certain cooperation projects, particularly in the field of higher education, but the bottom line remains the same: this instrument is at the service of neoliberal europe. it is not a means of developing a cooperative and respectful relationship with our neighbours. it is a violent text of eurocratic imperial domination; i vote against it.
in writing. the european neighbourhood instrument is addressed to the partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy and to russia. at the same time, it also supports crossborder cooperation and the gradual economic integration of the beneficiary countries into the european union. i supported this financial instrument to recall the key objectives of the european neighbourhood policy: respect for common values, stability and prosperity are the guarantors of democracy. the increase in its budget for the period 2014-2020 compared to the previous period is also a reflection of its success and efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this pre-accession assistance instrument will govern the financing of our enlargement policy in the western balkans and turkey. the amount of the fine is more than eur 11 million. the ipa will make eu aid more flexible, more targeted and more linked to progress on reforms. it will also focus on the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. i am against this text which aims to establish a new instrument for preaccession assistance. before considering further enlargement, the european union should first consolidate the functioning of its institutions with 28 member states. i therefore support a lasting pause in the european union's enlargement policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the instrument for pre-accession assistance, which helps potential candidate countries to implement the political, institutional, legal, administrative, social and economic reforms required to bring them closer to the union's values and to gradually align with the union's standards and practices. i would like to see transparency measures introduced by publishing the volume of aid and its allocation.
in writing. enlargement 'improves the economic conditions of all eu citizens'. the greeks and the spaniards can testify to the contrary ! more than 3 million greeks are poor or on the verge of social exclusion, or 27.7% of the population. in this laboratory of the neoliberals, it is now known that european enlargement depends on only one criterion, that of conversion to the harshest "market economy". the report not only relies on this fine copenhagen criterion but also calls for further economic adjustments, which are a foreboding sign of the worst. the eu is drifting seriously towards an authoritarian model. i vote against it.
in writing. the instrument for pre-accession assistance provides technical and financial assistance to countries applying for membership of the european union. through this support, the states are able to gradually align themselves with european standards and eu policies and values. i voted in favour of this report to show my support for this instrument which enables the european union to ensure stability and prosperity in its neighbourhood while spreading its core values.
in writing. the purpose of this text, which is being put to the vote of the european parliament, is to establish the budgetary framework for the european neighbourhood policy (enp), which was introduced in 2004 and now covers 16 states on the eu's eastern and southern borders. theoretically, under article 8 of the treaties, the eu is to develop so-called privileged relations with its nearest neighbours with a view to establishing 'an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness based on democracy and the rule of law but also on a market economy'. to implement it, the eu has set up a financial instrument for the enp for the period 2014-2020, with over €18 billion of which russia will also benefit. while the instrument appears to contain positive elements, such as combating climate change or promoting decent work, it can be adapted on a case-by-case basis with increased support for 'good students' and we know which criteria are paramount for the eu: liberalism and the readmission of immigrants are at the top of the criteria. i therefore voted against this report with a heavy heart.
in writing. i voted in favour of this instrument because it is essential that the eu develops and strengthens its relations with other countries and regions in order to be able to address common challenges effectively.
in writing. i supported this partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries, which promotes the interests of the european union at international level. such an instrument generates many positive effects, such as increased trade and the creation of a favourable economic environment for european enterprises, especially smes. however, it is important to establish performance indicators in order to be able to assess progress in these areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report from the committee on foreign affairs on the partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries. this new eu foreign policy instrument will extend the eu's partnership with third countries beyond cooperation. this innovative instrument will be very useful in establishing links with countries of strategic interest to the european union in the economic, scientific, environmental and mobility fields.
in writing. this new financial instrument for 2014-2020 focuses not only on trade issues but also on the fight against climate change (i.e. the energy market), the protection of personal data (one sentence) and academic exchanges with countries such as china and russia. despite its good intentions, it remains largely committed to its primary function, support for free trade agreements, which are the neoliberals' cherished tools for destroying all obstacles to free and undistorted competition, starting with national courts. i can't vouch for that. especially after the humiliation he accepted in front of the usa. i vote against it.
in writing. states such as brazil, india and china are important international partners for the european union. in the context of these relations, it is important to emphasise the external dimension of community policies while addressing new challenges in the fields of energy, security and climate change. i supported the partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries as presented in plenary, because it allows the advancement of the european union's interests on the international stage. this instrument, with a budget of eur 954 million, is intended to promote and defend the union's interests in all third countries not eligible for the geographical instruments. the project will cover in particular the european union's interests in the fields of environment and climate, thus giving the europe 2020 programme an international dimension.
in writing. i voted in favour of this human rights instrument because parliament has managed to increase the budget for human rights and democracy by about 20%. we have also managed to adapt support to human rights defenders who are in dangerous situations. strengthening human rights and democracy remains one of our priorities.
in writing. the european instrument for democracy and human rights gives the european union the capacity to provide relevant and effective development assistance to strengthen democracy in the world. i am particularly in favour of greater coherence in the european union's external policy through regular exchanges of information between the member states, the european external action service (eeas) and the european parliament.
in writing. this instrument provides the conditions for financing activities to promote democracy and human rights in the world for the period 2014-2020. building on the universal declaration of human rights, it will work for progress, including the abolition of the death penalty, against female genital mutilation, against racism and more generally for respect for international law. in practical terms, it will enable ngos in countries in serious difficulty or at war to help the local population. however, it is not unrelated to the very biased view presented in the report on the situation of human rights in the world in 2012, which i voted against. it supports the policy of mrs ashton's european external action service that member states should not decide against her best interests. finally, in crisis situations requiring rapid action, the commission even considers doing without the opinion of the members of parliament, the guarantors of popular sovereignty. i abstain to avoid the usual gestures of the right of interference and the defenders of the us-linked ngos. this report is of no interest to anyone.
in writing. the financial instrument for democracy and human rights contributes to the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms in third states. i supported this instrument, which is intended to be concrete and real in the states, since it provides support for civil society.
in writing. i voted in favour of this instrument because the eu's cooperation policy will focus on human and sustainable development. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european year of development in 2015 and as rapporteur for the epp for the establishment of this european year we will ensure that all our policies take a human rights-based approach and target the poorest countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the development cooperation financing instrument, which aims to eradicate poverty in beneficiary countries, support their social and environmental development and consolidate democracy. an important provision was introduced to help beneficiary countries become less dependent on external aid in the long term.
in writing. the development cooperation financing instrument (dci) is renegotiated under the new mff (2014-2020). several changes have been made, including the distinction between the least developed countries (ldcs) and those that have entered the upper middle income group, which allows the fund to be reserved for those states that need it most. but, as always, the aim is to 'support the adjustment efforts undertaken following the creation of various free trade areas'. it would be easier to introduce solidarity protectionism to really work towards the development of these countries. i shall abstain in order not to prevent the implementation of this new instrument of cooperation while the old one is coming to an end.
in writing. the development cooperation financing instrument (dci) is divided into three categories of programme: geographical, thematic and the pan-african programme, which enables the implementation of the eu-africa strategy. i could only support this instrument which contributes to the reduction and fight against poverty in developing countries. with an amount of eur 19.6 billion for the period 2014-2020, it is characterised by the introduction of the principle of aid differentiation, namely the concentration of european funds on the countries that need them most.
in writing. the report we voted on concludes the work of two long years which have not been too long to wrest from the council measures to democratize our development aid. this is one of the few european policies that can boast the support of 85% of our citizens! the desire for greater democracy in the functioning of our union also applies to international cooperation. unfortunately, this desire for transparency has only been partially met with the development cooperation financing instrument (dci), which would have been more open to co-decision. we can nevertheless be pleased that we have made substantial progress on many points, such as the allocation of 20% of the future icd to support basic social actions, with a particular focus on education and health. the strengthening of the dialogue with national parliaments, local authorities and civil society on all programming documents is also welcome. i therefore welcome the vote on the berman report, which establishes an instrument that contributes both to the fight against poverty and to the promotion of the values on which the eu is founded.
in writing. i have said this several times in plenary in recent years: the globalisation adjustment fund (gfa) is, in my view, one of the only tools that, in times of crisis, allows the eu to provide concrete assistance to workers who have been made redundant. since its creation in 2007 until today, the fund has clearly demonstrated its usefulness. in 2012, €73.5 million was mobilised in 11 countries to support more than 15 000 workers. however, allowing it to continue to exist until 2020 has not been easy. i therefore welcome the agreement we are voting on today and the action taken by marian harkin, rapporteur for the empl committee, to preserve the egf. even if its budget for 2014-2020 is reduced, the egf will be able to continue to support workers made redundant as a result of the current crisis and will be extended to workers on fixed-term contracts as well as young people (in regions with high unemployment) and self-employed people.
in writing. i voted for the continuation of the egf for the next 7 years, because with its €1.05 billion it will help workers made redundant, even young jobseekers if they come from the region affected by the redundancies, as well as self-employed or temporary workers linked to a company for which they were subcontractors and which would lay off more than 500 employees due to the crisis and/or globalisation.
in writing. i supported the adoption of the harkin report guaranteeing a significant financial amount for the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2014-2020. in order to combat unemployment due to relocations, this report provides financial assistance to workers who are victims of globalisation-related unemployment. in addition to one-off aid, this report establishes a european mechanism to help people return to work, in particular through training and the acquisition of new skills.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this text which aims to contribute to sustainable growth and employment in the european union. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is essential to enable our regions with high unemployment to cope with structural changes in the labour market. finally, it gives the union the necessary tools to have a coherent budget and to improve the response capacity of the egf.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because employment issues remain a concern for a large proportion of citizens. at a time when unemployment rates in the union are continuing to rise, particularly among young people, the modernisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the period 2014-2020 will provide innovative responses to this issue. in addition, one of the measures of the egf is to support farmers in the context of the change in their activity and aims to support them in their training and new investments. as the constituency i represent is predominantly agricultural, i can only welcome this proposal which is designed to take account of the challenges of tomorrow.
in writing. i voted in favour of a new european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2014-2020 because i believe it is essential for us to support more workers, alongside those who have been made redundant en masse, mainly in regions and sectors affected by the globalisation of the economy, and workers made redundant as a result of the crisis. this compromise will help to save this tool for helping workers who have been made redundant, which was threatened in its very existence by some member states. as formulated, it will make it possible to better meet the reality of closures of enterprises, will cover all types of employment contracts (from the cdi to the cdd to temporary workers and self-employed persons), a reduction in the time required to compile and process files in order to help workers more effectively, and a possibility for workers to be assisted by the fund in the resumption of their production tool.
in writing. the european parliament has managed to maintain the european globalisation adjustment fund, which helps people who have been made redundant. the new fund for the period 2014-2020 will be extended to new categories of workers, such as the self-employed, temporary workers and employees on fixed-term contracts. aid may also be granted to young people who are "neither students, nor employed, nor in training" in regions with high unemployment. thanks to the action of the european parliament, the european union's share in funding measures to help people find jobs, train and set up businesses has been increased. i voted in favour of these measures which are essential to support the many people who are unemployed or at risk of losing their jobs today. however, i am very disappointed by the lack of resources available to us and the incomprehensible opposition of governments to these measures. the budget has been reduced from 500 million to 150 million euro per year, even though european aid is very effective. the reintegration rate for people who have received support from the globalisation adjustment fund is 48%.
in writing. i voted in favour of maintaining european aid for redundant workers for the period 2014-2020. the european globalisation adjustment fund provides assistance to workers who have been made redundant as a result of the closure of their company or the relocation of the production site. it is important to plan an eu response to changes in world trade which force companies to make large redundancies. the fund finances measures relating to job search assistance and vocational guidance for a fixed period of time.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is the symbol of the hypocrisy of the current european union. on the one hand, free and undistorted competition and relocations are encouraged, on the other hand, a palliative is created to the 'potential negative consequences' of this policy. the report contains some positive points. it proposes to extend the scope of the fund to workers with fixed-term contracts, temporary workers and selfemployed persons (including farmers). it also opens up access to the fund to smes. but at the same time it is endorsing the reduction of its budget from 500 million to 425 million. the aim is to increase the number of applicants for this fund while reducing the resources. above all, this fund will be included in the regulation on common provisions, i.e. macro-conditionality. i vote against it.
in writing. mitigating the difficult consequences of restructuring: this is the ambition of the european globalisation adjustment fund. and i'm proud that parliament has extended it until 2020. this fund provides assistance for the conversion of employees who have been made redundant following the closure of their factory. little is known, but france has benefited greatly from it in recent years. in 2012, we approved in parliament a budget of €12 million to help more than 2000 employees laid off by psa. and in 2011, €24.5 million went to help 3,500 renault employees who were made redundant.
in writing. in recent years, the challenges posed by tax fraud and tax evasion have become a major source of concern within the union and globally. member states have clearly expressed their wish to go beyond the current levels of cooperation. the automatic exchange of information has always been a controversial topic. however, meps agreed that there is an urgent need to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of tax collection and that the automatic exchange of information is a valuable tool in this regard. for all these reasons, i have chosen to support this text in the vote in strasbourg.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is in line with the commission's action plan against tax fraud and tax evasion and reflects the position of the european parliament expressed in its own-initiative report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. in times of crisis, when european citizens are faced with rising taxes, there is an urgent need to tackle the problems of tax fraud and tax evasion, which cause an estimated €1 trillion in losses per year, representing an average cost of €2 000 per year for each european citizen.
in writing. the main purpose of this text is to avoid loss of income, especially in times of crisis. this text will facilitate the exchange of this information at european level. we want to make the union a model to be promoted at world level. however, care will be needed to ensure sufficient data protection in the context of this automatic and mandatory exchange of information.
in writing. tax fraud and tax evasion are certainly reprehensible, but the majority of the money is made by entities or individuals who have ample means to escape your wrath in offshore tax havens against which you do nothing. as a rule, and apart from a few not very skilled french ministers, they do very well. the very unpleasant impression therefore remains that it is on ordinary workers, their pensions, their incomes, the very balance of their accounts that the bulk of the effort will be borne, if only they have the wrong idea of being crossborder workers, established or retired in a country other than their own. i don't believe your texts are effective in protecting the privacy and confidential data of these citizens. and to avoid their tax persecution. many welcome the fact that this text obliges member states to share as much information with each other as they have committed to do with the united states under fatca. but fatca enshrines the extraterritoriality of a us tax law, which is very specific. the best part is that european leaders accept it and adapt to it.
in writing. measures were adopted by the european parliament on wednesday 11 december to reduce tax fraud and tax evasion. member states will automatically exchange a number of information concerning, in particular, dividends, capital gains and other financial income in order to better coordinate the fight against fraud. the european parliament's objective is to halve the gap between the tax revenues that should be collected and the amounts actually collected by the member states. in this time of economic crisis and fiscal asphyxiation, i voted in favour of these measures which improve the collection of existing taxes in order to increase tax revenues without creating new taxes.
in writing. this report proposes to extend the automatic exchange of information (aei) between european tax administrations, as part of the enhanced fight against tax fraud. dividends, capital gains, and all other forms of financial income will be affected by these automatic exchanges. i regret, however, that these exchanges concern only natural persons and not international companies, especially banks. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to provide a more effective response to the crisis. once again, the commission does not take the fight against tax evasion seriously and proposes only small measures, even excluding whole sections of the goods and income that are the source of this organized theft. this automatic exchange of information is also useless if it is not accompanied by the establishment of a real european financial register to enable the identification of who owns what, a form of european capital tax to oblige those who do not do so to hide it and firm and precise sanctions. i'm not going to do it because i don't want to seem like i'm satisfied with these half-measures that won't solve anything.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will make it possible to set up a single registration system to replace national reporting and authorisation procedures for the practice of transport. this will help to simplify procedures, reduce administrative burden, and remove barriers to entry, while maintaining the high levels of radiation protection achieved.
in writing. i voted in favour of the kovács report establishing a community system of recording all shipments of radioactive materials. the issue of a european transport authorisation certificate will maintain high levels of health protection of the population and workers against the dangers of these materials. in addition, given the often cross-border nature of transport operations, this european certificate will allow the harmonization of procedures and facilitate access for carriers to all the territories of the european union.
in writing. this text contributes effectively to the establishment of a community system for the registration of carriers of radioactive materials. it will reduce administrative burdens while ensuring high levels of radiation protection at a time when the transport of radioactive materials can be 15 to 20% more expensive than the transport of other dangerous substances.
in writing. i welcome the creation of an electronic system for the registration of radioactive material carriers, which allows for the exchange of information between competent national authorities, better monitoring of carriers in the member states and a strengthening of transparency and mutual trust between member states. this system also helps to reduce the administrative burden for the competent national authorities, as carriers will only have to register with the escreg once, and then operate in all 28 eu member states. i regret, however, the change in the legal basis. the appropriate legal basis remains the euratom treaty, namely protection against ionising radiation.
in writing. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to replace the national procedures for declaration and authorization of carriers transporting radioactive materials by a single registration system. the implementation of the regulation should simplify procedures and reduce administrative burdens while maintaining a high level of radiation protection.
in writing. the question of the evolution and improvement of european regulations on the transport of radioactive materials has been raised for some time. the mountain of promises has given birth to a mouse: the kovács report, which offers no other vision than that of liberalizing the transport of radioactive materials, thus leaving aside all the necessary measures to strengthen safety requirements. the proposal to set up a system of registration of carriers is very small compared to the real challenges that accompany this regulation: lowering the limits of radiation intensities, separation of the transport of radioactive and explosive materials, inclusion of depleted uranium or raising the requirements for signalling convoys. worse still, this system of registration risks gradually shifting responsibility from manufacturers to transporters and making the transport of these materials trivial. there is nothing in the text to prevent this risk. no, the transport of radioactive materials is not an ordinary transport, and the industrial producers of these materials do not have to be exempted from their responsibilities in the event of an incident. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it recalls the importance of the strategic framework for human rights and democracy set up by the european union. the promotion of human rights must be a permanent concern in the eu's external policy, both in development policy and in trade policy.
in writing. i spoke in favour of adopting the recommendations of the kukan report on the conclusions of the annual report of the council of the european union on human rights and democracy in the world in 2012. i believe that the european union's special representative for human rights must ensure that fundamental freedoms are firmly upheld. i have also supported the systematic inclusion of human rights clauses in all eu trade agreements with third countries. i also support a clear commitment by parliament to freedom of assembly and freedom of expression.
in writing. this text recalls both the need to establish common bases for the protection of fundamental freedoms and the need to consider this issue country by country in the face of the diversity of situations (conflict situation, post-conflict situation, democratic transition, etc.). i voted in favour of this text because it reaffirms the idea of the international impact towards which the union must strive. however, i abstained on the parts of the text dealing with sexual rights. the european union must respect the role of the member states in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on human rights in the world in 2012. unfortunately, this is a growing concern in many parts of the world that have entered transition or are in conflict. the european union must continue to develop a flexible policy of responses in order to support the values on which the european union is founded in these regions.
in writing. as every year, the european parliament produces an annual report on human rights policy in the world. it takes a comprehensive look at violations and progress to be made in many countries. the european union therefore claims the right to judge some of them. it's an excuse to justify his meddling policy. but i have noticed that while some countries are systematically denounced, others are never mentioned. so the united states is curiously absent from this report, whether it's the spying by the nsa or the secret prisons of the cia, the incarceration rate among its poor population, the death penalty, the legal use of torture. i am voting against this hypocritical report on the denunciation of variable geometries.
in writing. once a year, the commission publishes its report on competition policy, which describes both its legislative activity and the rules on state aid applications, cartels and mergers. the european parliament's report, which i voted for, seeks to show how the commission used competition policy as an instrument to solve the financial and sovereign debt crises in 2012. we underline how competition policy and the implementing measures adopted during the year have contributed to the wider objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and fostered growth, employment and the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it would be useful for the commission to devote a section to the impact of european competition policy on employment and social affairs in its future reports. similarly, an effort must be made to enhance the convergence of member states in terms of economic and social performance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union's competition policy, which is an instrument for regulating the european economic market. i welcome the recommendations in this report for fair competition, combating cartels and abuse of dominant positions while recognising the major contribution of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to the european economy. i am a firm believer in the principle of reciprocity of trade. i voted in favour of the creation of a european rating agency, that is to say, the establishment of a european regulatory body cooperating with the existing national regulators.
in writing. this text presents the commission's annual report on eu competition policy. it calls for a strengthening of eu competition policy as a driver of economic growth. the european parliament regrets that it does not have the legislative power to co-decide on the establishment of the competition policy framework. the report proposed, in particular, the creation of a european public rating agency. recent events have raised some criticism about the lack of independence and objectivity of some private rating agencies, which may have put companies or some of our member states in difficulty. a european public rating agency then appears as a relevant solution to these difficulties. that is why i voted in favour of the paragraph containing this proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am of course in favour of preserving free competition within the european union, which was one of the main objectives of the european internal market. i agree in particular that it is becoming essential to include the public sector in competition policy in europe and to put an end to anti-competitive practices, particularly in the transport sector. this demonstrates in particular the need for the implementation of a single european railway area, so that there are no obstacles in the field of rail passenger and freight transport. as a member of the european parliament's transport committee, i welcome this initiative.
in writing. a chapter should be added to the commission's annual report on competition policy: competition between european workers. not only that which is exercised through the strategies of companies, which in all european legality, close to the west to relocate to the west in the name of competitiveness. but also the situation of posted workers, who are employed in our countries in activities which are not considered to be transferable. i cannot be led to believe that ukrainian workers, recruited by a french temporary agency based in portugal, are needed to build the high-speed line between rennes and nantes. they are called specialists, but many of them had no specific skills for the job they were hired to do. their case is emblematic: they were recruited because they are cheap; they are on strike because they have not been paid and meanwhile, 5 million french workers are unemployed! this is the detachment directive in all its glory: exploitation and unemployment, modern slavery and precariousness. the european union is able to create laws that promote social and fiscal dumping within its own territory. in the name of competition and free movement. in fact, in the name of utter cynicism.
in writing. we adopted our annual report on the union's competition policy. the european union has exclusive competence in this area and the european commission is the european competition authority. we wanted to stress the importance of strengthening parliamentary control over the application of this policy, which was established several decades ago and is essential for our companies. in imposing financial sanctions, the european commission sometimes has a heavy hand... i hope that in the next term of office, parliament will be able to exercise greater control in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union's competition policy, which in 2012 was geared towards resolving financial crises and promoting growth, employment and the competitiveness of the economy. since this policy is particularly important for the economic future of europe, codecision with the european parliament should be used for the design of the competition policy framework.
in writing. the logorrhea of this ideological text and the neo-liberal jargon used in it do not conceal its predictable ineptitude. the report starts from the premise that only unlimited and barrier-free competition will allow europe to emerge from the crisis and return to growth. the link between competition and growth is not demonstrated, nor are the expected mechanisms. the policies of liberalisation and open borders have only worsened the economic stagnation in which the countries have been plunged. furthermore, the example of the liberalisation of public services or of the general economic interest does not really suggest that the welfare of consumers is at stake. to cite just a few examples, the liberalisation of the british railways or the opening up of electricity suppliers to competition in france raise doubts as to the benefits for consumers. a deepening of competition policies is not desirable. if the medicine kills the patient, it's not that the dose is insufficient but that it's bad. the dose should therefore not be increased but changed. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it states that, with a view to the abolition of milk quotas from 2015, additional measures will be needed at european level, particularly in the less-favoured and outermost regions. they should ensure a stable future for the sector and avoid the depopulation of rural areas, with the negative economic and environmental consequences that follow.
in writing. the aim of this text is to ensure the subsistence of milk production in mountainous, outermost and less-favoured regions. the aim is to avoid the desertification of mountainous and isolated regions, which are heavily dependent on producers. the diversity of regional soils is an asset. this text is a step in the right direction, since it is aided by a profession representative of the regions concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because, as an elected representative of a territory covering the whole pyrenees chain, i am particularly sensitive to issues relating to dairy farmers in the mountains. it is important to defend mountain dairy farmers, since they represent an ancestral know-how which could be threatened today if the european union does not act. i myself also alerted the european commission in november 2013 to a similar problem related to the difficulties faced by sheep milk cheese producers in ossau iraty in the pyrénées-atlantiques. the defence of these producers is essential because they help to keep alive an activity which is increasingly threatened by the large agro-food groups.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will support milk production in mountain and less-favoured areas by mitigating the impact of the abolition of milk quotas in 2015. to this end, the text provides for increased aid under direct payments and market measures and calls on the member states to set up specific programmes for milk production in the context of rural development. milk production is a major economic activity in these remote areas and often the main source of income. the continuation of this activity is therefore absolutely necessary to combat the depopulation of rural areas. i am glad that parliament has chosen not to abandon our farmers and to take action to ensure a stable future for the sector.
in writing. as a member of the auvergne region, i hear and understand the concerns of dairy farmers who work in conditions made difficult by the geographical and topographical situation of the territory, especially in the mountainous regions. the reform of the cap is aimed at keeping it as close as possible to reality, and the milk quotas introduced in the 1980s no longer seemed justified today. therefore, they will be abolished in 2015. however, the european union cannot ignore the fact that these upcoming changes are likely to cause serious disturbances on the milk market in the less-favoured areas, the outermost regions and the mountainous areas. we have been witnessing a worrying depopulation of rural areas for many years and the measures taken by the eu must not exacerbate this phenomenon. i therefore fully share the views expressed in the report on maintaining milk production in mountain areas and call for the national authorities and local authorities to be extremely vigilant so that the abolition of quotas in 2015 does not coincide with the increase in farm closures and the regrettable economic and social damage.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on milk production in mountain, less-favoured and outermost regions. these areas will be severely weakened by the abolition of milk quotas in 2015. however, milk production is often the only source of income in these areas, and we must ensure that the sector has a stable future if we do not want to see these rural areas depopulated.
in writing. this own-initiative report proposes several measures, including financial ones, to accompany the abolition of milk production quotas in 2015 in the mountainous and so-called 'outermost' regions. the commission is proposing to create a premium for herbivore farmers. the committee also calls for the use of cap funds for 'rural development' to set up investment aid, as well as a 'compensatory allowance' or aid for 'the setting up of producer organisations' to enable farmers to negotiate better with distributors. i don't want to oppose these measures. but this aid, like the development of 'dairy and rural development projects', will not be able to cope with the abolition of quotas. the most savage liberalism will be unleashed on the milk producers: collapse and volatility of prices, race to productivity and the gigantism of the farms to resist, unbridled competition. the only effective measure would have been to re-establish milk quotas. this report endorses their deletion. he only offers to help the wounded in the coming milk war. i'm not going to.
in writing. dairy production in the mountains, disadvantaged and outermost regions is often the main source of income for the local community. this report therefore focuses on those regions which will be more vulnerable after the milk quotas end in 2015, and aims to ensure decent livelihoods for farmers and the future of rural areas. i voted in favour of this text to show my solidarity with milk producers and thus support the rural areas which will suffer from the end of milk quotas.
in writing. in our mountainous regions, dairy farming often forms a significant part of the economy of the upland areas. but these activities are likely to suffer from the end of milk quotas in 2015. it is therefore essential to provide a framework to support our farmers in order to ensure a stable future for the dairy sector and thus maintain employment and the rural economy. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to maintain milk production in mountain, disadvantaged and outermost areas after the expiry of milk quotas in 2015. the milk quota system, introduced in 1984, was one of the successes of our common agricultural policy, as it made it possible to adapt the rapidly increasing milk production to european demand and thereby guarantee a stable income for farmers. it has also made the market more rigid. the abolition of quotas in 2015 could destabilise the market in areas where milk production is the only source of income. i am thinking in particular of the pyrenees in my constituency, but also of our overseas territories. this own-initiative report should help us to think about and anticipate these difficulties. the commission is proposing to increase aid to these areas (subsidies for small farmers, compensatory allowances), to assess the difficulties in 2017, but also to take account of the specific features of products with a protected designation of origin, for example in the context of the distribution of milk to schools in the union. finally, i supported the amendments which emphasize the outermost regions, which are one of the assets of my country.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for, as part of a long-term approach to resilience, addressing the root causes of disaster risk, and risk management to reduce vulnerability to disasters, including food crises. it is always more effective to address the root causes of recurrent seizures than to respond to the consequences of the seizures. the report considers that more efforts are needed to address the lack of efficiency and coordination in the use of funds for disaster risk reduction and resilience activities.
in writing. it is important to take into account the extent of the damage caused by natural and man-made disasters in recent years, especially in developing countries. with this text we hope to help developing countries to adapt more quickly to these disasters. with better coordination and more targeted funding, another €800 million could be saved. i particularly support the emphasis on tackling food insecurity, the main cause of vulnerability during crises.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on resilience and disaster risk reduction in developing countries, which follows a communication from the european commission. the recent and recurrent food crises in the sahel region and the horn of africa show that the union should adopt an approach that is not only aimed at dealing with emergency situations but also at enabling exposed populations to cope with certain recurrent risks.
in writing. disaster risk reduction (drr) is a key element of resilience, i.e. "the ability of an individual, household, community, country or region to resist, adapt and recover quickly from crises and shocks". the report calls for the eu to focus on the most vulnerable, the poorest and the most marginalised. it also takes climate change into account for the coherence of developed policies and opposes dumping of agricultural products. these are commendable goals. however, the report omits the main cause of the recent increase in natural disasters: productivity. the means it advocates for this civil security policy are all the more inadequate since it calls for the private sector to play a stronger role in this, notably through public/private partnerships. on the contrary, it is the public resources of the states and local authorities that should be strengthened. beyond the laudable objectives stated, i cannot support such privatization of civil security, so i abstain.
in writing. resilience is defined as 'the ability of an individual, household, community, country or region to resist, adapt and recover quickly from crises and shocks'. the objective of this report is to strengthen the resilience and reduce the vulnerability of developing countries. the first step will be to reduce the risks of disasters through preparedness, prevention and mitigation activities. i supported this report because it raises a major issue for developing areas that are often victims of disasters with disastrous consequences for local populations (the 2010 earthquake in haiti, the 2013 typhoon in the philippines, etc.).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in particular because it calls on the member states to review their policy and legislative frameworks concerning the participation of women with disabilities and women with intellectual and mental disabilities in the labour market. each member state should adopt active labour market policy measures for women with disabilities to provide them with choices, including flexible employment, part-time employment and full-time employment, and to consider the possibility of stimulating small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) through financial incentives and other arrangements to better reconcile work and private life.
in writing. i voted in favour of the werthmann report, which seeks to ensure that women with disabilities are afforded special protection in order to eliminate discrimination and stereotypes and to guarantee equal rights for all citizens. the report calls on the commission to take action at european level to improve the situation of women with disabilities. the report proposes in particular to support housing projects which take into account the reduced mobility of disabled women.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text to encourage the integration of disabled women. the accumulation of multiple discrimination often places disabled women in a much worse situation than able-bodied women. that is why i actively support the european union's action to ban this type of discrimination. i also believe strongly in the european union's efforts to integrate women with disabilities into society and to enable them to participate on an equal footing.
in writing. women with disabilities face several social obstacles and types of discrimination, especially in times of crisis: unemployment, difficulties in accessing education, daily life (e.g. new technologies) and discriminatory treatment of sexuality and motherhood. these women are more vulnerable and more likely to be victims of domestic violence or sexual exploitation. these discriminations were recognised in 2006 through the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was ratified by the european union in 2010. i voted in favour of the werthmann report because it seeks to combat all this discrimination, in particular by calling on the member states and other european institutions to include disability in all programmes and policies on equality between women and men. in order to improve the living conditions of these women, it is also proposed to support voluntary initiatives for human diversity and mutual aid associations, to provide adequate funding to ngos active in this field and to optimise the use of eu financial assistance, in particular the structural funds.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on women with disabilities, which summarises the measures that could improve the situation of women with disabilities at european and national level and eliminate discrimination or stereotypes.
in writing. the who defined disability as the result of the dynamic interaction between a health problem... and contextual factors which include both personal and environmental factors. the report before us does not use this definition and unfortunately uses the term in the sense of impairment. nevertheless, this report represents a step forward in taking account of the specific situation of women with disabilities. it draws attention to the sexual abuse suffered by disabled women and calls for the prohibition of forced sterilisation. the concrete solutions mentioned (health, employment, housing, etc.) will, however, be difficult to implement in the context of austerity and reduced public spending. i am voting for this text in order to support these advances, without any illusions about their actual implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the jong report for the creation of a single retail market to strengthen the competitiveness of the retail sector. retail trade must be able to compete with large firms. to this end, the legislation in force must be simplified to ensure the sustainability and smooth operation of this type of trade. these european micro-enterprises account for 15% of the union's gdp. parliament advocates the safeguarding and development of these independent trades.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i think it is important to protect the retail trade, which is an important economic sector. ensuring the competitiveness of our smes and safeguarding commerce in our cities are two essential objectives. this includes making price information more accessible to consumers and facilitating the card payment system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to address the main obstacles by defining a strategy for strengthening the competitiveness of the retail sector and improving its economic, environmental and social performance. i welcome the clarity of the text as regards the guidance given to all stakeholders and the institutions on how the actions should be implemented.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european action plan for retail for the benefit of all actors which proposes measures to limit restrictions to establishment and operation.
in writing. this report proposes to defend the retail trade. unfortunately, it seems to be satisfied with the working groups set up by the commission. it has never once called into question free trade or proposed the appropriate solidarity protectionism measures to defend small businesses. worse, the report defends undistorted competition and calls on the commission to remove regulatory barriers to 'business creation'. finally, in complete contradiction to its defense of local trade, the report welcomes the commission's intention to encourage e-commerce. so the social model that we're being offered is amazon? i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes an action plan for the final link in the distribution chain, the retail trade. this type of trade accounts for 11% of european gdp and more than 15% of employment in the eu. it is therefore of vital importance to our economy and contributes to the diversity of the commercial offer. it is essential to ensure a favourable climate for independent shops. i have been advocating for some years to create labels for small shops in the cities, to encourage mentoring between experienced and novice traders, or to create a weekly night for shops in the city centre. of course, we must also consider how we can link up with peripheral commercial areas, and our report rightly calls for a 'balanced approach' between the city centre and peripheral commercial areas. finally, we should recall the importance of authorizing small groups of independent producers, who should not be unfairly penalized by the national competition authorities, and who can, for example, support the activity of agricultural cooperatives.
in writing. in the current context of austerity, small independent traders are particularly affected by the crisis, although they account for 15% of employment in the eu and are often the collateral victims of austerity policies, given their impact on consumption. it is therefore rather a good thing that parliament, in reacting to the commission's proposal, is expressing its concerns in this area, as is the fact that it supports a number of measures to take account of the specificities of this sector. i therefore voted in favour of this report, but i wondered again whether these measures had actually been taken into account.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would just like to underline that the commission welcomes the report on multi-tier governance as a very important contribution to the debate on the future of europe and i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their work on this report. we share a common aim: to increase the eu’s ability to act and to respond effectively to the many challenges we face. deepening the emu and strengthening our system of economic governance are fundamental to this aim. the commission has acknowledged that, despite the tentative signs of recovery, we still continue to face a crisis of confidence. restoring confidence will require us to stay on the reform path and to tackle the vulnerabilities that allowed the crisis to have such a devastating effect. at european level, this means combining measures to boost growth with major efforts to strengthen cooperation and deepen integration in the financial, fiscal, economic and also the political field. as you know, important steps have already been taken in response to the crisis, including through the six-pack, two-pack, and the esm. looking forward, we must focus on implementing what has already been agreed, as well as on the next steps. we fully agree with your conclusion that completing the banking union is an immediate priority. an agreement on the single resolution mechanism before the end of this parliament would create significant momentum. we also need to continue to strengthen emu in a broader sense. your report contains a wealth of important ideas in this regard. many of these are well-reflected in the commission’s blueprint on a deep and genuine emu, and in the supplementary communications on ex-ante coordination of major economic reforms, on a convergence and competitiveness instrument (cci), and on the social dimension of the emu. we are already working on putting these ideas into practice. contractual arrangements and associated solidarity mechanisms can generate real value added by enhancing national ownership and strengthening the implementation of reforms which have been agreed in the context of the eu surveillance framework. but after listening to the debate this morning it is still clear that we need to engage in more profound debate to clarify all the outstanding issues in this area. any new arrangements should be firmly anchored in and be part of the community surveillance framework. contracts and solidarity should go hand in hand and president barroso will be making these points very firmly during the crucial debate at the upcoming european council. the specific points in your report are an important and timely contribution to this debate. lastly, the commission has set out very concrete ways of developing the social dimensions of the economic and monetary union as an integral part of eu economic governance and has started to put them into practice as well. these include reinforced surveillance of employment and social developments and strengthened policy coordination within the european semester – which we have begun this year; enhanced solidarity and action in support of employment and labour mobility; and thirdly strengthening of social dialogue. more generally, the commission agrees with parliament that differentiation is the right and realistic way to proceed in order to further integrate emu. it should be possible for those who wish to integrate further and faster to do so. however, this process must be open to all member states and must be based on full integration into the treaties. in this way, the unity of the union can be preserved. it is also crucial to anchor further integration firmly in the community method, so as to avoid the serious pitfalls of intergovernmental approaches. it goes without saying that this parliament plays and will continue to play a key role in ensuring democratic accountability. the euro is the currency of the eu and the european parliament is its parliament. the commission welcomes the steps that you are taking to enhance democratic accountability and scrutiny. the commission will continue to support the strong involvement of this parliament in emu governance, building inter alia on the successful economic dialogue newly established in the framework of the european semester. national parliaments play a key role in ensuring the legitimacy of the action of the member states in the council and the european council. and their role needs to be reinforced, particularly as regards decisions in the context of the european semester, where interaction between the european and national levels is so crucial. in this context, it is certainly also important to strengthen interparliamentary exchange. therefore, apart from the agreement to hold the parliamentary week in the european parliament, we also welcome the interparliamentary conference on economic and financial governance foreseen by article 13 of the fiscal treaty. i am encouraged that there is so much common ground between our institutions in this most important area. i look forward to today’s debate and to continued cooperation on this very important topic.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, it is a challenge to deal with a subject like this in one minute. i'd like to focus on one point. this report is a step along a long road. we start from a logic in which there was unity in parliament on all subjects and the fact that all parliamentarians represented the general interest of the union. the real situation after the crisis is that there is an objective difference between the countries that share the same currency and those that do not wish to participate - i will leave out those who will join us. we have tried to propose solutions which are in this tension between a tradition of unity and a need for differentiation. the decision of the ecofin council last night to invoke an intergovernmental treaty should be a wake-up call. we have a real challenge ahead of us. for my part, i think it is not illegitimate for the euro area to have institutions, democratic institutions, and i would like them to be part of this framework as much as possible. if not, then there is no need to be delusional, because the developments will take place outside.
mr president, commissioner, the questions which parliament is asking in this own-initiative report, for which i thank the rapporteurs, are essential for the future of economic and monetary union. this report shows the political will to achieve greater efficiency in the union's economic action and sets out very commendable objectives. this includes accelerating structural reforms to enable europe to move forward on the path to competitiveness, growth and job creation. a great deal of work has been done to achieve this, although it has not always been easy to implement, particularly because of the resistance of the member states. this report highlights the efforts made to respond to the accumulated crises of recent years and has sought to do so in a consistent manner. in the field of economic coordination, the six-pack and the two-pack have strengthened the coordination of economic policies in the euro area by combining strict discipline at national level and solidarity at european level. in the area of banking union too, the main pillars of the banking supervision mechanism, the resolution system with a single resolution fund and the deposit guarantee mechanism are being finalised and should be completed in the coming weeks. the ultimate aim of all these texts is to restore the confidence of european citizens in the european financial and banking system. the next step is to implement these measures, which must necessarily be in accordance with the european treaties. in this respect, our citizens do not so much expect institutional reforms as they do results. we have to explain even more in the coming months what the european union has done well and, when i hear it said here that it is a failure, it is certainly an error of assessment, but we understand that it can be politically oriented. today we need to give our fellow citizens something concrete, and i think that in this area they would not understand that we are not talking about social europe and fiscal europe, which can be evidence of the 'will to live together'.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a report which sets out the way forward for future work on the road to genuine economic and monetary union and, in essence, on how to organise differentiation to achieve it. i would like to make three comments on this. the first is that, as early as december 2011, we indicated that our own structures should evolve to adapt to changing governance conditions, particularly in the euro area. i think we have come a long way since then. those who claim to defend the community method without taking it into account in the organization of our work are wrong because, by not adapting our work organization structures around the evolution of powers and duties within the euro area, we are putting ourselves out of the loop. we are locked into a single internal market logic which delegitimizes this house as the organ of the community method within the euro zone. so to advocate the community method is to advocate the organization of our european parliament in a temporary structure around the issues of the euro zone. we had an agreement with mr andrew duff, including on this approach, and i do not understand the meaning of his amendment. on the question of the euro-plus pact, quite frankly, this pact is not democratic and does not correspond to our vision of the future of the union's economic policy. the mere fact of incorporating it into the treaties does not make it a democratic element or a relevant element for the economic policy we want to pursue. i do not understand why we are asking for this to be incorporated into the treaties. thirdly, there will be no sensible and effective differentiation, no real economic and monetary union, if we do not build this fifth pillar for social europe, for which our european parliament has voted by a large majority.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon treaty has been in force for four years. it gave the european council the status of a community institution without changing its role. the european council gives the union the necessary impetus, defines its general political guidelines and priorities. it does not exercise legislative functions. that's the theory. in practice, under the pressure of the crisis, the european council has considerably expanded its role. he has multiplied the extraordinary meetings - the 20 summits of the last chance - and has raised, at his level, issues normally dealt with at ministerial level, thereby overstepping his role and encroaching on legislative functions. the result is confusion, lack of transparency and weakening of parliamentary control. for example, on economic governance, the european council decided overnight to renegotiate provisions identical to those already made applicable by an earlier regulation. the adoption of the multiannual financial framework was a real legislative deadlock, since, in order to obtain the necessary unanimity within the council, it pre-decided the content of many policies financed by the european budget. on all these matters, which are by definition the most important, the absence of a formal dialogue between our parliament and the council has prevented us from playing our full role as co-legislators as laid down in the treaties. president van rompuy - and i would like to pay tribute to him - was sensitive to these inconveniences. it has tried to take account as much as possible of the requirements of information and transparency and it seemed to us that the time had come, at the end of this parliamentary term, to take note of the progress that has been made in the relationship between our two institutions and to go further in preparing for the future. in the light of these four years of experience, the aim is to improve and formalise the working relations between the european council on the one hand and the european parliament on the other. this can take the form of an exchange of letters, joint statements or interinstitutional agreements, whatever. we have five major proposals. firstly, we propose that every meeting of the european council be preceded by a debate in this parliament, in this house, allowing for the adoption of a resolution before the meeting, with the presentation by the president of the european council himself of the guidelines he proposes. secondly, to ensure that the european council meetings are held after parliament's weekly sessions and not before or during them. thirdly, we propose that every year a major debate on the state of the european union be held in the presence of the president of the european council, the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and the president of the commission, without prejudice of course to the debate which is currently taking place every year on the commission's legislative programme. fourthly, we ask that whenever the european council undertakes an action plan or a procedure which may involve a legislative dimension, the european parliament be involved in good time and be able to cooperate in the preparation of these texts in the form appropriate to each individual. finally, and this is very important, the treaty of lisbon introduces a major innovation for the democratization of the union. the president of the commission will no longer be appointed as a senior international official, but will be elected by universal suffrage through the european parliament. but this essential progress requires that the european council play the game, that it applies the spirit of the treaty rather than the letter and that it makes clear, before the start of the next european elections campaign, how it intends to apply the treaty in this area. it is on this condition that the citizens will finally take power in europe.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i fully support the position of principle expressed by mr vlasák, but i would point out that mr lamassoure's report does pose a real problem. what happens when the representatives of the member states, which are the ministers sitting in the council, are disowned by the representatives of the member states, which are the heads of state or government, who are in the european council? we might still think that heads of state or government on the one hand, ministers on the other, within the same governmental organization, work in harmony. it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid, but of the commission's being too rigid.
mr president, what the report by our very competent colleague mr lamassoure reveals without saying is that the lisbon treaty is a veritable gas factory. in his report he gives some rather striking examples - i do not have time to mention them all - such as the legislative agreement between the european parliament and the council of ministers on european patents, which the european council has challenged. there are many others. we could have thought, as i said just now, that the ministers representing the member states would be in solidarity with their respective heads of state or government, that the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, would himself be carrying out this coordination work, that the co-ordinating body, which brings together the diplomatic representatives of each member state, would contribute to it. it is true that at the last meeting of the council of ministers, when visas were granted to the citizens of azerbaijan, france was represented by its minister of culture. it's not necessarily a guarantee of competence. mr lamassoure proposes legitimate remedies, such as the european councils being preceded by a statement by the president of the council, followed by a resolution. but what has prevented this from happening? in reality, the root of the problem is that the permanent presidency of the council has not abolished the rotating presidency of the council of ministers. so many opportunities, so many overlapping skills and conflicts. there are still no subscribers to the europe number. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i will answer briefly. madam president, the problem raised by mr lamassoure's report, which is also mentioned in passing, is that there are three interlocutors, who have three different levels of legitimacy: the permanent president of the european council, mr van rompuy, the rotating presidency every six months by a minister from a member state of the council of ministers, and the president of the commission, whose democratic legitimacy will increase. under these circumstances, as henry kissinger once said, i do not know who to call when i want to speak to europe. it's a contradiction in terms. from the europeanist point of view, which is not mine but mr lamassoure's, we have a three-headed europe. it's a normative monster, in a way.
mr president, i would like to congratulate our colleague, alain lamassoure, on his excellent own-initiative report on relations between the european parliament and the institutions representing national governments. he has really put all the fruit of his long experience here in this house, of which he has been a member for many years. as chairman of the committee on budgets, he was at the heart of the budget negotiations. he was also a member of the french national assembly, a member of two french governments, and he was able to put all his experience, acquired in many positions of responsibility, to work in analysing what is happening now since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, since the increase in the number of european council meetings and also in presenting proposals for the future. of course, the proliferation of european summits, the increasing involvement of the members of the european council in legislative functions, which were not originally conferred on them by the lisbon treaty, raise questions. the time has therefore come to consider how to formalise relations between the european parliament and the institutions representing national governments and the members of the council. i support the lines proposed in the lamassoure report, which proposes that these new practices, a number of lines, be formalised, either in a formal exchange of letters, in a joint declaration or - perhaps a somewhat less feasible hypothesis - in an institutional agreement. we must of course work to strengthen parliamentary control. the proposals are, of course, all good to study, good to review. it may be for our successors to work on this, to formalize this. the main idea, of course, is that the european council meetings must be preceded by a debate in parliament in the presence of the president of the european council; i think that is absolutely essential. i would like to conclude with a very important point, on which we really insist, namely that the members of the european council undertake, in the spirit and in the letter of the lisbon treaty, and in particular article 17, to say how they will respect the choice of our fellow citizens, the choice made by our electors at the time of the next electoral consultations, in the presentation they will make of the next president or the next president of the european commission, and how they will undertake to respect this choice also in the name they will propose for the next commissioner from their own country. that's a very important point. we really insist on this aspect of the lisbon treaty provision.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to make three concluding remarks, thanking all the speakers. first of all, i would like to reassure commissioner šefčovič. if we propose that there should be an annual debate on the state of the union in the presence of the president of the european council and the president of the commission, it is not to replace the current annual debate but to supplement the debate which currently concerns the legislative programme with a wider debate on the internal and external situation of the union. secondly, i was very struck by the very broad consensus on the diagnosis across all the benches of parliament, a consensus to which both the traditional supporters of community europe and those who prefer an intergovernmental europe belong. it is in the interests of both of us that our two institutions, the european council and the european parliament, work better together. they say it takes two to tango. the treaty now provides that parliament's natural partner in the tango is the council, but the council of ministers is paralysed and the european council is dancing the tango alone, since parliament has no right to be its partner. we have to fix it. finally, as a final point, many speakers on behalf of their group confirmed that the european council next year, when it has to nominate the candidate for the post of president of the european commission, cannot take the risk of denying the result of the popular vote. one of two things: either this vote is clear and massive and there is a winner, at which point the role of the european council will be that of a collective head of state, the role of the queen of england, or else the result is not quite clear, and at which point it will be the role of the king of the belgians. but in any case, the final decision will be up to the citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for having responded to parliament's insistence that this text, which directly concerns the citizens, be introduced in all the financial legislation. secondly, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jürgen klute, and the whole of parliament's team. i think that there has indeed been, as werner langen said, a good compromise and i am speaking as the chairman of the intergroup on the fight against poverty. what i think is very important is that we recognize the poor as entitled. that is also why i believe that, especially in the trilogue - i am addressing myself to you, commissioner - we should not go too far beyond the initial objective. the initial target is the poorest people and basic accounts. if we stick to something simple, we will not have burdened the banking institutions too much and we will have done a service to our fellow citizens who are suffering from a difficult social situation.
in writing. the initial provisions of the text have real added value for our citizens on a daily basis, such as making it possible for all european citizens to have access to a bank account. the new rules should also make it easier to open an account in a member state where citizens do not have a permanent address. the possibility of changing banks would also be facilitated and price information would be standardised to allow better comparison for consumers. i hope that these new provisions will be finalised and adopted swiftly.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, i would like to congratulate the european commission on its maritime ambition, which is helping to create jobs at sea and along the coast, through the blue growth objective. if ambition is matched by means, by 2020, blue growth could enable us to reach 7 million jobs and €600 billion in gross value added, instead of the current 5.4 million jobs and €500 billion in gross value added in the maritime sector. but tonight, beyond the ambition, i want to congratulate the commission on the means it is proposing to provide us with for its implementation. to achieve this growth objective, it is indeed necessary to create tools. the proposal concerns maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management. without these tools, there is a risk that the objective of growth will remain a slogan or, even worse, that growth will lead to the same mistakes, particularly ecological ones, for which we are paying today, on the ground. maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management must therefore provide a strategic approach to the various maritime activities, both existing and those that will take place in the future, such as in the field of energy or marine biology. with the increase in use, conflicts over coastal areas are already numerous. the aim is to anticipate and manage these changes in order to allow the strategic sharing of the various maritime activities over time and space and the development of all sectors with respect for the environment. the aim is to build a genuine integrated maritime policy. the ambition of this policy is to promote a new way of looking at the sea so that the coastline is no longer seen as a line of coast but as an interface. this interface is not a breakthrough but a strategic challenge. as coastal areas often incorporate the most vulnerable marine ecosystems but are also the areas most heavily impacted by land-based pollution, it is crucial that a land-sea dialogue can be established. it is in these areas, for example, that the greatest number of fish breeding areas are found and where a disaster on land can throw an entire ecosystem out of balance, as we have seen recently with fukushima. finally, beyond the function these instruments are intended to perform, i am also pleased that our work in the european parliament, with the rapporteur, mrs gesine meissner - i take this opportunity to thank her as well - has improved the initial text in terms of governance and consultation.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, in the absence of commissioner de gucht, i very much welcome the opportunity presented by professor moreira’s oral question to discuss the implementation of the eu's flagship trade and human rights initiative: the gsp+. beneficiaries will receive their first individual scorecards upon notification of their gsp+ entry, or immediately thereafter. these initial scorecards will constitute the starting point for each country in monitoring the effective implementation of the 27 international conventions linked to gsp+ tariff preferences. the commission will then engage with the authorities in beneficiary countries, drawing their attention to the areas identified in the scorecards and, with the support of the european external action service, will make contact at regular intervals to review the efforts made by beneficiaries to tackle the issues described in the scorecards. this monitoring can involve, for example, ad hoc or existing dialogues, using eu delegations to engage with authorities locally, and interaction with the monitoring bodies of the relevant conventions. the process aims to help gsp+ countries meet their existing commitments under international conventions and thus progressively improve their implementation record. it is not meant to create new or additional commitments or targets. the commission will keep monitoring the reports from the relevant monitoring bodies of each convention. it will also assess information received from other sources, including the european parliament. scorecards will be updated and drafted, shared with both member states and the european parliament before they are communicated to the beneficiary countries. such scrutiny ensures transparency and further strengthens the integrity of gsp+ monitoring. as foreseen in the gsp regulation, reports from relevant monitoring bodies are core documents for the purposes of monitoring the continued gsp+ eligibility. however, other sources of information may now also be considered, provided that they are accurate and reliable. without prejudice to other sources, this could include information from civil society, social partners, the european parliament and the council. this is one of the novelties of the scheme brought about by the new gsp regulation. we are already consulting, briefing and sharing documents extensively with the european parliament with respect to gsp+ scorecards. as the scheme is implemented, we would expect more opportunities for further work together. the european commission looks forward to good cooperation on this file.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes i get the impression that the commission does not hear us or, rather, that it turns a deaf ear. in the context of the implementation of the gsp, this is blatant. we wanted to be able to decide on the beneficiaries of gsp+ on a country-by-country basis, and the commission replied with scorecards. i'm not disputing the usefulness of these paintings. they will be an important tool for monitoring the progress of the recipient countries, but i have my doubts about the method. as we know, the award of the european gsp is based on purely technical criteria. at this early stage, it is a reasonable and impartial solution. it leaves enough room for political orientations in the second stage. this is where i challenge the method. by opting for a single delegated act for several countries, the commission is depriving us of all political action, however crucial, in the field of international trade. above all, this method leads us to make radical choices, which are not suited to any of us, namely either to delay the entry into force of the new gsp, at the risk of creating legal uncertainty, including for our european economic operators, or to intervene only in the third stage, that of the sanction, when the beneficiaries will not fulfil their commitments and it will be too late. the commission is sending a very bad signal when we adopt the two omnibus regulations tomorrow. we all want good cooperation between our two institutions, but the method adopted by commissioner de gucht simply does not allow it. i am thinking of another matter which we must conclude very quickly: the modernisation of trade defence instruments. the commission is keen to develop guidelines to clarify future regulations. but not only does she skip the steps, she also regularly forgets to answer when we question her. mr commissioner, perhaps you will have more answers than we do when you pass on these comments to the commerce commissioner. my colleagues and i will be glad to hear them then.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i welcome the commission's proposal, which is supported by the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee and, today, our parliament. today, our parliament is sending a strong and positive message that in these times of crisis our economic efforts and investments must be used in a smart and responsible way. we need to make it a new tool to help us reduce the pressures on our environment, a new tool to deal with a situation that no one denies. europe is one of the most artificially created regions in the world, with the highest rate of fragmentation of natural habitats, degradation and loss of biodiversity due to human activities. we've lost 50 percent of our wetlands and agricultural land of high natural quality. the quality of our soils is deteriorating and this deterioration is costing us tens of billions of euros a year. it is in this context that we must mobilise synergies to go from grey to green, to achieve the objectives that the european union has set itself in terms of combating climate change and biodiversity loss or, again, to ensure water quality and risk prevention. we must go from grey to green, from investing at a loss to investing in the economy, employment, health and the environment of our territories. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the creation of a european network of airports, roadside bypasses and concrete dikes, urban green belts, agricultural grasslands, green roofs and preserved wetlands: a european policy for a european green fabric. a new tool: green infrastructure with a transfer of european funding, to put an end to funding that is harmful to biodiversity, to reverse the trend, by promoting sustainable solutions that create jobs and offer many benefits for the economy and the environment. in this innovative and winning approach, let us not forget to always involve, and increasingly, civil society, citizen science and grassroots science and let us engage quickly and resolutely. i believe in the success of this ambitious undertaking and call on the european commission to ensure it. you can count on our full support.
president of the european central bank. − president, honourable members of the european parliament, i am very pleased to take part in this debate on the ecb annual report for 2012. today is the last time in this legislature that i will participate in the plenary. this represents a good opportunity to take stock of the progress made over the past few years in strengthening the resilience and stability of the euro area. to introduce the debate, i would first like to review the more recent ecb monetary policy decisions. i will then address institutional matters of particular interest to your house, as well as the progress made so far in reinforcing european monetary union governance. i will hence address most of the issues which the committee on economic and monetary affairs highlighted in its draft resolution on the ecb annual report. let me begin by describing the economic environment of the past years. the economic recovery that followed the post-lehman global recession of 2008–2009 was aborted in the euro area as the sovereign debt crisis took hold. financial stability was threatened; the viability of banks that had survived the first phase of the crisis was called into question. credit was curtailed and the recession that ensued lasted until the first quarter of this year. since then, we have been experiencing a weak recovery. weak economic activity and high unemployment have resulted in subdued inflation. against this backdrop, and in respect of the price stability mandate that was assigned to us by the treaty, we have lowered our key interest rates to historically low levels. to clarify the orientation of our monetary policy going forward in an exceptionally uncertain environment, we introduced forward guidance in july 2013. we stated that we expected key interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time. that statement was conditional and based on an overall subdued outlook for inflation extending into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness of the real economy and subdued monetary dynamics. in november we acted upon that conditional pledge by reducing two of our key interest rates, as price pressures have diminished further and we anticipate inflation weakness to be protracted. in keeping with these anticipations, we also reconfirmed our forward guidance in its original formulation. over the past two years our interest rate cuts were transmitted only unevenly across euro area countries, due to the fragmentation of financial markets along national borders. to address this problem, we adopted a series of non-standard measures. the purpose of these was – and remains – a more effective transmission of the ecb’s interest rate cuts, so that our monetary policy can reach euro area companies and households. our measures addressed those distortions in sovereign debt markets that were due to the redenomination risk and alleviated funding pressures on euro area banks. at our november meeting we also decided to extend the time horizon for the application of the fixed rate full allotment procedures in our liquidity operations until at least july 2015. this decision reassures our counterparties that the liquidity necessary to refinance their core activities will be forthcoming at our main refinancing rate. as a direct consequence, bank lending rates for households and non-financial corporations have decreased at the euro area level. in this way, our measures have also helped small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the euro area economy. we have, in addition, taken direct measures to alleviate the funding situation for smes through our collateral framework, and we have worked with the european commission to further improve sme financing conditions. let me now turn to institutional developments and focus in particular on measures related to accountability and transparency. since our creation, we have always gone beyond the treaty requirements in making our work transparent and accessible. the monthly press conferences, which were without precedent at the time among major central banks, are a telling example. this year has also shown that the ecb stands ready to adapt its communication policy, where deemed necessary. for example, we have published the procedures governing the provision of emergency liquidity assistance, the so-called ela. we have started internal reflections on how to increase the transparency of the deliberations in the governing council without undermining independent decision-making by its members. our commitment to accountability and transparency has also become apparent in the agreement concluded between our two institutions on the single supervision mechanism, the so-called ssm. supervision necessitates a differentiated form of accountability from monetary policy, while preserving the independence of the ecb as a whole. the interinstitutional agreement strikes the right balance between ensuring high standards of accountability, transparency and safeguarding confidential information. i am confident that the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement will open a new chapter of successful cooperation between our two institutions. in this context, let me also welcome your positive vote on ms nouy’s nomination. following her final appointment by the council, she will become your main interlocutor on all matters related to the ssm as of 1 january. i would also like to address an issue which i know is as much a concern to you as it is to me: the gender balance at the ecb. today, 17% of our management positions are filled by female staff. it is clearly not enough. this is why the executive board decided this summer to introduce gender targets aiming at 35% women in management positions by 2019 and this is not an empty promise. the ecb has started to implement a diversity action plan that will help us to attain those targets. let me now share my thoughts on the process of completing european monetary union. as this legislature comes to the end of its term, it is an opportune time to reflect on what we have achieved in such a short space of time. not so long ago, the euro area was facing an uncertain future. in the meantime, doubts about the integrity of the single currency have dissipated. notably, a road map for a genuine emu has been outlined that encompasses four pillars: banking union, fiscal union, economic union and, ultimately, political union. through a concerted legislative effort the euro area, and the eu as a whole, has been put on a more stable footing. your institution has made a decisive contribution to this effort. the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism represents probably the most significant change to the european union since the establishment of the single currency, and i am happy to report the internal preparations are well underway. i strongly welcome the political agreement on the bank recovery and resolution directive you reached with the council last night. swift agreement on the other key component of banking union – the single resolution mechanism – is of paramount importance. i trust you will succeed in adopting the relevant legislation before your term comes to an end. these institutions are essential to implement the single rulebook in the years to come. looking ahead we will have a stronger set of rules for capital and liquidity. we will also have a new toolbox for the resolution of financial institutions and we will have stronger national deposit guarantee schemes. banking union, however, is not a panacea for eliminating financial market fragmentation and fully stabilising the european monetary union. it is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition to break the bank-sovereign nexus and restore sustainable economic growth. equal borrowing conditions can only be ensured through the joint implementation of other measures. this not only includes continued fiscal consolidation and implementation of structural reforms but also progress on the other unions; only then can we say we have created a genuine european monetary union. let us seize the opportunity of the next european parliament elections to have an open public debate on the further steps needed to strengthen the architecture of the european monetary union.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr gianni pittella, and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their very valuable work on this important report. this ex-post assessment of the ecb’s activities by parliament is an essential element of the democratic accountability of the ecb and a necessary complement to the ecb’s independence. the commission shares parliament’s view that the ecb has reacted decisively in a challenging environment and played an active role in stabilising financial and bond markets through the ltros and the omt decision. the commission has confidence in the conduct of monetary policy by the ecb and fully respects its independence. this implies that the commission does not comment on the ecb’s monetary policy decisions. let me comment instead on some issues touched on in your report which fall under the remit of the commission’s mandate. first, regarding the banking union, the setting up of the single supervisory and resolution mechanisms is a major step towards completing economic and monetary union and of course building confidence now in the short and medium term. maintaining the reform momentum is key to further progress. the srm will have to ensure that bank resolution will be orderly and that the european taxpayers will be protected. we need to finalise the work in time – the political agreement next week and the legislative work before the end of the current parliamentary term. another issue which is essential – even crucial – for opening up the bottlenecks to growth in europe is access to finance by smes. mr pittella’s remarks on this matter were certainly to the point. we have worked very hard to put together a truly bold initiative to counter the fragmentation of the financial markets and reduce the borrowing costs of european smes because there is no economic growth without credit growth. as always, let me be frank with you about this. the prospective decisions of the european council next week do not seem to go far enough, nor to be concrete and bold enough in this regard. we as the european union – that is both the eu institutions and the eu member states – must do better and step up a gear to boost affordable lending to smes for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation in europe. what does this mean in practice? first the eu member states should be bolder when allocating structural and investment funding for the purpose of leveraging sme lending. the commission is fully committed to this as regards the eu budget. secondly, the european investment bank and the european investment fund should consider increasing their budgets for lending to smes, which calls for the support of eu member states as owners or shareholders of the eib and the eif. thirdly, the ecb could benchmark the funding for lending scheme of the bank of england which has substantially supported sme lending in the uk. as we know, the uk now has a higher rate of growth than the euro area. i trust that mr draghi will do his utmost to convince his fellow members of the governing council and succeed in this. it is only a matter of repairing the monetary policy transmission mechanism. you can be sure that the commission will support you on this and so will the smes in europe as they need affordable lending to create jobs and make the european economy grow. indeed we need to boost sustainable growth and job creation in europe by all possible means. let me conclude by stressing that i see much common ground between your views and those of the commission. it is reassuring indeed to know that i can count on your support in building the sustained recovery we need, the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation. i agree with mr draghi that the next european elections should be used to discuss and design the way forward in regard to how we complete the reconstruction of the economic and monetary union by building on emu 2.0, which will look very different from the emu 1.0 of 15 years ago with all its systemic shortcomings. we need to complete the work on the reconstruction of the economic and monetary union. i look forward to having a constructive and productive debate with you here today.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, governor, ladies and gentlemen, every year the econ committee draws up an own-initiative report on the activities of the european central bank. this report is the cornerstone of the work of monitoring the activities of one of the most important european institutions carried out for our assembly, in the absence of democratic control. the annual report on the activities of the ecb 2012 should have enabled our assembly to take a strong stand on recent developments in monetary policy. despite good evidence of the ecb's role in the construction of the banking union, this is not the case. it is true that it is difficult to find ambitious compromises between political families which are sharply divided on how to resolve the crisis. however, on behalf of the greens, i can only deplore the overall weakness of a text which is sometimes out of touch with reality. like the money preachers, we should continue to worry about inflation, even though today's inflation rate is well below two percent. the deflationary shadow, predicted by many economists, should be a warning to us. as budget cuts are increasing in europe, it seemed to me normal to ask the institutions that have received ecb cash support to increase the volume of credit granted to the real economy. however, this amendment was rejected in committee. as things stand, we greens will abstain on the text to show our disappointment, while not relinquishing the few less controversial and sometimes even positive parts of the text. among these positive elements, the desire to distance the ecb from the decision-making process of the troika is one of the most significant. if it were to be removed during the voting, the environmentalists would be forced to vote against the final report and i would be sorry.
mr president, mr draghi, first a word to our chairman. i would ask mr schulz to ensure that there are no further meetings during mr draghi's speeches in plenary that deprive us of the presence in this house of members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i think this is an important meeting and that parliament would do well to make an effort to participate in the dialogue when it calls for transparency. i don't want to get into the details, mr draghi, i just wanted to ask you something. in june 2012, the european council adopted for the first time a comprehensive approach. we wanted to discuss budgetary, economic, banking and political union at the same time. you were asked, with others - i know, with others - to think about the medium-term evolution of the euro area. i wanted to ask you where that beautiful work went. since last year, we feel that all this has been forgotten and that we have forgotten the broad approach which, in my opinion, was the only truly intelligent one.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, you are usually in charge of agriculture, although today you are representing commissioner šemeta, to whom i would like you to convey, as mr stolojan said, our congratulations. i'd like to take a picture, which will be more familiar to you. in tax matters, the wolf is in the sheepfold. we have within the euro area - and this is not me saying it, this is, for example, a recent oecd report - important member states who think they can continue to encourage tax evasion and tax evasion, and who evade the obligations to exchange information. this is an absolute scandal. we must call things by their right names and denounce them. above all, we must stop playing the game of frightened virtue. you know all those northern countries that have triple a and give moral lessons to the rest of europe. i'm personally for rigor. i share the desire to clean up public finances. we have done a great deal in this parliament to tighten up the rules, but the rules must be rigorous for everyone. it must be of value to those whose benefits are cut and whose wages are reduced, but it must above all be of value to those who are even more privileged and who, by means of schemes, allow themselves to escape from what is the first duty of citizens, which is to co-finance the needs of the community. so, commissioner, the wolf is in the sheepfold. help us to get rid of it and to have procedures for the whole of the euro area, and the european union in particular, which prevent fathers of virtue from doing their not very clean little business out of sight.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is of little value to want to fight tax evasion effectively without undertaking all the necessary legislative changes in the weeks and months to come. the time is running out for the end of the mandate. the commission's proposal to extend the automatic exchange of information to all income categories is crucial. the council must adopt this reform without delay. luxembourg and austria, which are the wolves in the sheepfold, can no longer selfishly hold back legislation that is essential to overcome the crisis. the council should respect its commitments made at the european council in may 2013 on transparency, across sectors, country by country, including through the extra-financial reporting directive. i therefore welcome the positive vote in the econ committee last monday. let me, on the other hand, regret that the spd has accepted, in the coalition agreement with the cdu, a position which limits transparency to the banks and the mining sector, while renouncing the public dissemination of information. of course, publicity is essential. this choice undermines the formation of an ambitious majority in the council. the introduction of a mandatory public register of the true owners of companies, trusts and foundations in the money laundering directive, the adoption of the revision of the directive on subsidiaries and parent companies to eliminate tax evasion facilitated by hybrid entities are all decisions that need to be taken quickly. colleagues, time is running out.
if you really wanted to do something, you would start by banning the activities of european banks in tax-fraudulent countries. you would arrange for the differential taxation of foreign residents in their country of origin. but of course none of this will happen and no overall measures will be taken. the criminal obstruction of countries which oppose the adoption of comprehensive measures will continue, the liberalization of capital movements will continue without tax harmonization, the tolerance for tax havens in the european union and at our immediate borders will continue, european deregulation will continue, european transfer pricing regulation which facilitates tax evasion and, last but not least, these damned austerity policies which are decimating the tax and customs services which would be in a position to crack down. the directive on the automatic exchange of tax data is a strainer covering only the accounts of natural persons and not those of companies or investment funds. finally, you continue to recommend the development of the tax base everywhere... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i do not wish to oppose the proposal, but as the members are getting settled and the political groups are... please, we've done this before, and there have been some mistakes. so don't go too fast with it.
i did. by including the vote on the european maritime and fisheries fund in this part-session, i wanted to confirm parliament's determination in the trilogue with the council. it so happens that this morning the council, during the trilogue, made significant progress which suggests a rapid agreement. i therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, that the vote on the final resolution be postponed, in agreement with all the other groups.
in writing. i voted for the report on the court of justice of the european union and the number of judges at the general court because given the constant increase in the workload, the number of judges must be increased to meet the demands of the citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which makes the european judiciary more efficient. as a result of the enlargements of 2004, 2007 and to a lesser extent 2013, the european union has grown from 15 to 28 member states, without any major revision of the statute of the court of justice of the union being considered. mechanically the legal capacity of the european union has increased considerably with the presence of 13 additional states. this text is an opportunity for the court to reform itself and to deal with the growth in litigation due in particular to the continuation of european integration and the registration of community trade marks. the time-limits will thus be shortened, which will ensure fairer and faster justice for the union's litigants.
in writing. the court of first instance of the eu is overcrowded, especially since the accession of new member states. the court, like all eu institutions, is subject to the council of europe convention on the protection of human rights, in particular article 6 which requires that justice be served "within a reasonable time". if the stock of pending cases continues to increase, the eu faces a condemnation by the european court of human rights. an increase in the number of judges is therefore welcome. even if the method of appointment is complex and does not distinguish between the professionalisation of judges and respect for the principle of national sovereignty. moreover, a court of professionals making decisions on the basis of eu law (even if we dispute it) is still preferable to an arbitration procedure. i vote for it.
in writing. as from 1 january 2014, mayotte will change from the status of an overseas country and territory (oct) to that of an outermost region within the meaning of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the outermost regions have in many cases a derogation from the rest of the union, so a number of directives, particularly on vat, need to be amended to explicitly exclude mayotte from their scope, which parliament has approved.
in writing. the european council decided to amend the status of mayotte with regard to the european union with effect from 1 january 2014. therefore, as from that date, mayotte will cease to be an overseas territory and will become an outermost region of the union within the meaning of articles 349 and 155 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. following this change in the legal status of mayotte, union law will apply to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. however, taking into account the specific structural economic and social situation of mayotte as a new outermost region, it is appropriate to lay down certain specific measures relating to the special conditions of application of union law. it is planned to grant mayotte additional time to transpose several directives.
in writing. the mayotte region has changed its status to become an outermost region, and our european legislation needs to be adapted to this new situation. the text then makes it possible to amend the legislation on the common system of value added tax and the general excise duty system. the exclusion of mayotte from the scope of these directives, as is the case with the other outermost regions, is thus a matter of consistency in the application of european legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal to harmonise the situation of mayotte in the area of tax directives. with this new proposal, mayotte will therefore be assimilated to other french outermost regions. mayotte will be excluded from the application of directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax (vat) and directive 2008/118/ec on the general system of excise duties as regards the french outermost regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the change of status of mayotte with regard to the european union, which will cease to be an overseas territory and become an outermost region. union law will apply to mayotte as from 1 january 2014.
in writing. in 2011, mayotte's status was changed in the french constitutional context from overseas territory to overseas department. following this change and at the request of france, the european council amended the status of the new overseas department with regard to the european union, which became that of an outermost region. from 1 january 2014 mayotte will have the status of an outermost region (orr) instead of an overseas country and territory (oct). the commission proposal is purely technical and aims to ensure that it is treated in the same way as the other french outermost regions, namely guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. the amendments concern two directives, one of which excludes mayotte from the scope of the common system of value added tax under the secondary legislation of the european union. i vote for it.
in writing. decision 2012/419/eu of the european council amends the status of mayotte, which will cease to be an overseas territory as from 1 january 2014, to become an outermost region. while we welcome this new entry into the union, we must be aware of the constraints of the territory and its capacity to comply with community legislation, particularly in the area of infrastructure. the package of regulations we voted on will help the island to make a smooth and gradual transition to the community acquis. these texts, which had to be submitted to parliament before the end of the year, will make it possible, in particular, to bring investment priorities into line with regional policy. the package includes taxation provisions, derogations for water treatment to accompany the investment timetables of the structural funds and a compromise on fisheries, which balances the need to develop the sector with the preservation of resources. i welcome the efficient parliamentary work which has enabled us to obtain a package which provides a balanced framework for the mahoura process.
in writing. as from 1 january 2014, mayotte will change from the status of an overseas country and territory (oct) to that of an outermost region within the meaning of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). this has the consequence that union law is applied in the territory of mayotte. however, france has requested that mayotte be granted a deferral of the implementation of directive 2010/18/eu concerning the agreement on parental leave in order not to disrupt the economic development of mayotte. i have decided, as have a majority of members of this house, to vote in favour of this request.
in writing. as of 1 january 2014, mayotte, the 101st french department, will become an ultra-peripheral region (urr) and will therefore be an integral part of the european union. this is good news for mayotte, which as an eu territory will be able to benefit from eu funds and accelerate its economic, social and environmental development. supporting infrastructure projects, renewable energy, preserving the ecosystem, supporting fishermen and farmers, or supporting the mahorais in the fields of education and training: in all these areas, eu aid will be a great opportunity for mayotte and the mahorais. as an orp, mayotte must also apply eu law. but because of the island's remoteness and its particular economic and social situation, there are delays and exceptions. today i supported the reports which, in various areas, propose to give france and mayotte more time to enforce european rules and thus protect the specific features of the island. this is particularly the case in the environmental field, in fisheries and here in the postponement of the application of the directive on the agreement between the social partners on parental leave.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the european council decided to change the status of mayotte with regard to the european union as from 1 january 2014. therefore, as from that date, mayotte will cease to be an overseas territory and will become an outermost region of the union within the meaning of articles 349 and 155 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. following this change in the legal status of mayotte, union law will apply to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. however, taking into account the specific structural economic and social situation of mayotte as a new outermost region, it is appropriate to lay down certain specific measures relating to the special conditions of application of union law. it is therefore planned to grant mayotte additional time to transpose several directives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am glad that the island status of mayotte is taken into account. due to the specific economic and social structural situation in mayotte, in particular the fact that the labour market is not very developed and the employment rate is low, and due to its remoteness, it was difficult for mayotte to implement this directive without a transposition period. finally, this additional transposition period should also make it possible to improve the unfavourable structural social and economic situation of mayotte as a new outermost region.
in writing. the status of mayotte will change on 1 january 2014. the archipelago will cease to be an overseas country and territory and will become an outermost region where community law will eventually have to be applied in full. but compliance with the european union rules cannot be achieved without a period of adaptation in view of the particular situation of mayotte and the economic and social difficulties encountered. it is therefore important to propose some derogations from community law in the fields of the environment, agriculture, social policy and public health. as regards the legal basis of this report, article 349 of the treaty should have been considered as an additional legal basis, since it is precisely this article which sets out the conditions for the application of eu law in the outermost regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the change of status of mayotte with regard to the european union, which will cease to be an overseas territory and become an outermost region. union law will apply to mayotte as from 1 january 2014.
in writing. from 1 january 2014 mayotte will have the status of an outermost region (orr) instead of an overseas country and territory (oct). the report proposes that the french authorities should be granted the request to postpone the date of implementation of the council directive implementing the agreement on parental leave concluded by the european social partners, in order to allow the gradual establishment of equal treatment in the specific field of parental leave and not to disrupt the economic development of mayotte. i vote for it.
in writing. decision 2012/419/eu of the european council amends the status of mayotte, which will cease to be an overseas territory as from 1 january 2014, to become an outermost region. while we welcome this new entry into the union, we must be aware of the constraints of the territory and its capacity to comply with community legislation, particularly in the area of infrastructure. the package of regulations we voted on will help the island to make a smooth and gradual transition to the community acquis. these texts, which had to be submitted to parliament before the end of the year, will make it possible, in particular, to bring investment priorities into line with regional policy. the package includes taxation provisions, derogations for water treatment to accompany the investment timetables of the structural funds and a compromise on fisheries, which balances the need to develop the sector with the preservation of resources. i welcome the efficient parliamentary work which has enabled us to obtain a package which provides a balanced framework for the mahoura process.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to ensure the continuity of the instruments foreseen to develop eco-innovation (borrowing mechanisms, public-private partnerships, etc.) between the former competitiveness and innovation programme (cip) and horizon 2020. the current priority themes for eco-innovation projects are: recycling of materials, sustainability of building materials, the agri-food industry, the water sector and green trade. the report calls for more targeted and long-term eco-innovation investments, particularly in education, research and development. it highlights the strong potential for direct and indirect job creation in the eco-industry (today nearly 3.4 million people for an estimated annual turnover of eur 319 billion). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. stimulating eco-innovation leads to the creation of 'green jobs'. it therefore has implications for employment and sustainable growth. these are two levers on which we all agree to act. i voted in favour of this text because supporting eco-industries means supporting 3.4 million jobs and encouraging investment in this key sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on eco-innovation which follows a communication from the european commission to improve the market uptake of eco-innovation. the european union supports eco-innovation through calls for projects to develop commercial green technology products.
in writing. although this report takes into account some important elements concerning eco-innovation and green jobs (the assertion of the necessary social component of green jobs), it is largely inadequate and counterproductive. the statement that a market-based environmental policy is likely to generate growth and jobs in all sectors of activity is sufficient to show that the european union is far from the real issues of the ecological crisis. of course carbon finance still remains central to this report. of course, no investment plans are being made in the productive apparatus or in research, and no drastic and radical measures are being taken to prevent the commercialisation of goods and services which are economically and socially destructive. the report is still a charade for green jobs and eco-innovation. this is very small compared to the scale of the ecological crisis. it is also counterproductive and dangerous, because the instruments which the eu has put in place and which this report supports run counter to the necessary measures. i am voting against this text to show my opposition to the eu policy which is leading us into the wall.
in writing. environmental problems such as climate change, resource scarcity and the degradation of biodiversity require a radical transition of the union towards a sustainable economy. it is in this context that i have supported this report on eco-innovation, i.e. the integration of sustainable development criteria into research and innovation by industry. eco-industries account for 2.5% of eu gdp and employ 3.4 million people. there is a need to give greater impetus to eco-innovative projects, which have a significant positive impact on employment and the environment. to this end, the report first suggests allocating a larger share of current competitiveness funding horizon 2020, life or cosme to eco-innovation to encourage green investment in research. the report also proposes interesting measures, such as the establishment, with the member states, of ecological standards for public procurement, and the development of clear labelling and definition rules for green products and services. many citizens still believe that green jobs are limited to renewable energy generation and transport. green growth is, on the contrary, an opportunity for all sectors.
in writing. the european commission plays a leading role in sustainable development and in supporting the creation of green jobs in europe. i voted in favour of this resolution because it highlights the dual environmental and economic benefits of a transition to a green and sustainable economy. the increased contribution to the production of innovative fuels and materials, and the employment opportunities that the processing and distribution of biomaterials offer to commercial, public, private and domestic consumers, are creating sustainable and quality jobs for both skilled and unskilled workers.
in writing. i approve the amendment of certain regulations relating to commercial policy to ensure their compatibility with the provisions introduced by the lisbon treaty. in particular, the treaty of lisbon introduced significant changes concerning the adoption of delegated and implementing acts. however, i regret that the european parliament does not have a right of control over the commission's exercise of implementing powers and that only the member states have that right.
in writing. this essentially technical text deals with the adaptation of the rules on trade policies as a result of the application of the new treaties. this is the omnibus i text on implementing acts. its adoption will make it possible to adapt many regulations to the new treaties. i am voting against in line with my opposition to the new treaties.
in writing. this essentially technical text deals with the adaptation of the rules on trade policies as a result of the application of the new treaties. this is the omnibus ii text on delegated acts. its adoption will make it possible to adapt many regulations to the new treaties. i am voting against in line with my opposition to the new treaties and my deep reservations about the delegated powers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to improve the transparency and comparability of information on charges relating to payment accounts. it also aims to eliminate discrimination based on residence in relation to payment accounts and to provide access to a payment account with basic functionalities within the eu. the directive will apply to payment accounts held by consumers. therefore, accounts held by companies are outside its scope as are savings accounts.
in writing. i voted for the report on payment accounts to enable everyone to have a bank account because it is an underestimated phenomenon. many people do not have bank accounts because of the cost of living, poverty and other restrictions. yet, for most people today, living without a bank account would be almost unthinkable. the possession of a bank account is a real prerequisite for participation in social and economic life. daily life is difficult and expensive without access to basic banking services. the benefits of virtual transactions are becoming more tangible every day and citizens and public administrations are taking practical advantage of them. without a bank account, it would be very difficult to pay salaries or to pay your electricity, gas or water bills.
in writing. this text makes it possible to improve transparency and comparability of bank charges in a timely manner. it provides in particular for the communication to consumers of the costs incurred and the applicable rates. the text also provides for easy access to the opening of a bank account for consumers, without discrimination.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal because of the need to change the current banking system. today, citizens are increasingly migrating from one member state to another and they face many difficulties in opening a bank account abroad. until now, discrimination could be based on residence or nationality. the present proposal therefore aims to remove these obstacles by guaranteeing access to banking for all. this is a sensible solution taken by the union in favour of the citizens, and i can only approve of that.
in writing. sometimes opening a bank account is part of the combatant's journey, especially for the poorest or students and trainees. the requirements to open an account with basic services or the lack of transparency to be able to compare offers make the task very difficult. i therefore voted in favour of this text, because we had to make it even easier for young people to move, both for their studies and for their careers. this is yet another proof that europe, far from being a cliché, is still useful and cares about the daily lives of europeans.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which i believe is one of the european projects that make the eu a reality for citizens. in this case, bank accounts are the target here, with the ambitious aim of improving their accessibility, conditions of use and customer information. the overall approach to accessibility is successful: we have agreed to the principle that all payment service providers will have to provide any legal resident of an eu country who so wishes with a payment account with basic services (payments, withdrawals, transactions, but no obligation to authorise overdrafts). we have ensured this. i am particularly pleased with this measure, which goes far beyond what the european commission proposed. the balance is also positive for the rest. the transparency of bank charges and offers has been further improved, with banks being required to report them and the comparison being made via an independent website set up in each member state. in addition, consumers will be able to change their accounts much more easily and quickly in a context where banks tended to curb these procedures.
in writing. the european union has the largest maritime area in the world. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to establish a procedural framework for the establishment and implementation of maritime spatial planning programmes and integrated coastal zone management strategies by the member states.
in writing. i voted for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management because the sea represents many sectoral activities (fisheries, aquaculture, oil, transport, etc.) but all of this takes place in a fragile environment that we do not yet know enough about and whose beauty and richness we must preserve for future generations. the high population density and the high level of human activities in coastal and maritime areas put pressure on these ecosystems. therefore, a reasonable balance between economic, social and environmental factors is crucial in order to successfully promote the growth of the maritime economy while ensuring sustainable development. as the interplay between marine and coastal areas is very complex, it is crucial that this governance and management process ensures land-sea connectivity and includes oceans, seas and coasts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the meissner report for integrated coastal zone management. this report calls for more crossborder cooperation in the implementation of integrated maritime spatial management. i do believe that a successful framework for maritime spatial planning requires local, national and transnational approaches. in order to achieve this objective, i supported the rapporteur's proposal to postpone the final vote on adoption of the report by parliament so that negotiations with the council can begin.
in writing. coastal areas are the main population centres and dynamic employment areas. the aim of this text is not only to develop the maritime economy in a sustainable way but also to guarantee legal certainty for smes in this sector. to achieve this, the union needs coherent, but above all common, planning. that is what this text encourages. it is essential to ensure that this framework directive is in line with the principle of subsidiarity and leaves member states a margin of manoeuvre to integrate their particular interests and specificities at national level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text in order to take full account of the issue of maritime spaces. one of the challenges of this proposal for a directive is to provide a legal framework for maritime space, particularly as very few member states have maritime planning programmes. the current framework has demonstrated its investment limitations. large companies need legal certainty to be able to guarantee their investments in future technologies or in costly projects, which the future directive will be able to guarantee. moreover, from an environmental point of view, maritime and coastal activities and uses often take place in ecologically sensitive areas. therefore, the ecosystem-based approach to managing and planning these activities fully meets this expectation, which i can only welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management which will allow for a coordinated approach to the development of maritime activities taking into account the protection of ecosystems.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this directive which proposes a framework for the development of coastal areas. i have been particularly interested in this issue because maritime and coastal planning is of strategic importance and i have in particular succeeded in finding a balance between the development of economic activities and the protection of the environment. only a healthy ecosystem can be productive and provide the levers for growth, competitiveness and employment. the requirement to ensure that integrated coastal zone management takes account of the needs and specificities of the territory explains why the eu proposes guidelines, which the states, in conjunction with local authorities, are responsible for implementing, to ensure the coexistence of sometimes competing activities in the same area. the development of tourism, the promotion of renewable marine energy and sustainable fisheries are all issues that will find their place in our strategy. with this vote, our assembly is urging the eu to finally turn to the sea, thus breaking with a habit that has shown its limits by looking only inland. we now have an effective land-use planning tool to support blue growth.
in writing. as of 1 january 2014, mayotte, the 101st french department, will become an ultra-peripheral region (urr) and will therefore be an integral part of the european union. this is good news for mayotte, which as an eu territory will be able to benefit from eu funds and accelerate its economic, social and environmental development. supporting infrastructure projects, renewable energy, preserving the ecosystem, supporting fishermen and farmers, or supporting the mahorais in the fields of education and training: in all these areas, eu aid will be a great opportunity for mayotte and the mahorais. as an orp, mayotte must also apply eu law. but because of the island's remoteness and its particular economic and social situation, there are delays and exceptions. today i supported the reports which, in various areas, propose to give france and mayotte more time to enforce european rules and thus protect the specific features of the island. this is particularly the case in the environmental field and in fisheries matters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the european council decided to change the status of mayotte with regard to the european union as from 1 january 2014. therefore, as from that date, mayotte will cease to be an overseas territory and will become an outermost region of the union within the meaning of articles 349 and 155 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. following this change in the legal status of mayotte, union law will apply to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. however, taking into account the specific structural economic and social situation of mayotte as a new outermost region, it is appropriate to lay down certain specific measures relating to the special conditions of application of union law. it is therefore appropriate to adapt the transposition of several directives to take account of the specificities of mayotte.
in writing. this text makes it possible to adapt european legislation to the new status of mayotte. nevertheless, it is understandable that flexibility is being shown in the full application of union law as soon as the new status of mayotte enters into force. several transitional periods and adjustments are of course necessary, particularly in the areas of waste water treatment, water policy and bathing water quality management.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because, despite the discrepancies on the legal basis of the proposal, it is important to take into account the evolution of the status of mayotte. the proposal for a directive also covers areas vital to the island of mayotte, the most important of which is agriculture, which accounts for a large proportion of local employment. finally, i also welcome the fact that france is obliged to ensure adequate consultation of the social partners and to minimise the risks to workers, in order to promote better labour protection on the island.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which results from the change in mayotte's status with regard to the union. eu legislation is expected to apply from 1 january 2014, but transitional periods are introduced in several areas such as water policy.
in writing. from 1 january 2014 mayotte will have the status of an outermost region (orr) instead of an overseas country and territory (oct). in accordance with that decision, the new status of mayotte will enter into force on 1 january 2014, which means that union law will apply in full to mayotte. however, france is not in a position to guarantee the full application of union law as soon as the new status of mayotte enters into force and several transitional and adjustment periods will be necessary. these include water policy, minimum safety and health requirements for workers' exposure to physical agents, patients' rights to cross-border healthcare and the dimensions of laying hens' cages. these adjustments are necessary. i vote for it.
in writing. decision 2012/419/eu of the european council amends the status of mayotte, which will cease to be an overseas territory as from 1 january 2014, to become an outermost region. while we welcome this new entry into the union, we must be aware of the constraints of the territory and its capacity to comply with community legislation, particularly in the area of infrastructure. the package of regulations we voted on will help the island to make a smooth and gradual transition to the community acquis. these texts, which had to be submitted to parliament before the end of the year, will make it possible, in particular, to bring investment priorities into line with regional policy. the package includes taxation provisions, derogations for water treatment to accompany the investment timetables of the structural funds and a compromise on fisheries, which balances the need to develop the sector with the preservation of resources. i welcome the efficient parliamentary work which has enabled us to obtain a package which provides a balanced framework for the mahoura process.
in writing. the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) is the new fund proposed by the european union (eu) in the field of maritime affairs and fisheries for 2014-2020. i voted in favour of this new fund which aims to help fishermen adopt sustainable fishing practices; to help coastal communities diversify their economic activities; to finance projects to create jobs and improve the quality of life along europe's coast and to facilitate access to finance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the final report on the rules of the european maritime and fisheries fund. the €6.5 billion fund will help fishermen implement the fisheries reform adopted at european level for sustainable fisheries. european aid will be used to modernise the engines of vessels which will have to be less powerful, to install young fishermen, and to collect and manage fisheries data, among other things.
in writing. the european capitals of culture are an intergovernmental initiative set up in 1985. since then, this initiative has been reinforced by the european union's action to increase their reach and effectiveness and they have gained wide notoriety, generating a lot of interest at each occurrence. the current system for organising eu action is governed by a decision which expires in 2019. the new proposal, which i voted for, takes up most of the features which made this action successful by specifying the selection criteria in order to give more guidance to the candidate cities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the union's action in favour of the 'european capitals of culture' for the years 2020 to 2033. as a reminder, marseille is this year's european capital of culture and this brings it a reputation and very important economic benefits.
in writing. i voted in favour of the scurria report on the promotion of the cultural wealth of europe's capitals. the european capitals of culture programme aims to strengthen intercultural dialogue by involving the population as widely as possible in these actions. i support the european dimension of this project as advocated in this report; the european identity will be strengthened.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european capitals of culture. the report shall set out the conditions governing the designation of cities among the candidate cities. the vote on this report is an opportunity to highlight the great success of this initiative, which is also a way of making europe and its cultural dimension known as closely as possible on the ground.
in writing. every year, two cities are chosen to be the european capitals of culture and host cultural programmes for a whole year. this report is very naive about the links between politics and culture, for example by focusing on the feeling of european belonging damaged by the crisis, without understanding that it is precisely this anti-social europe that is causing this rejection. however, he has the merit of pursuing a project that is working well. beyond the development of tourism, this report highlights european capitals as tools for social inclusion, calling for the participation of the greatest number of people. it requires a sustainable, supportive and social urbanisation project. amendments have also been made to the commission's plans. she now wanted to choose the members of the jury selecting the candidate cities. as culture is being cut everywhere, i support this project to enhance heritage. against the culture of capital, the culture of capital.
in writing. the european capitals of culture project is not about to end with this report, which i have supported, and which renews the process until 2033. launched in 1985 on the initiative of the greek and french ministers for culture, it has enabled more than 40 cities to showcase the richness and diversity of european cultures. at a local level, the european capital of culture title allows two cities to be highlighted for a year (events, meetings of citizens and cultures) and is a unique opportunity to revitalise their cultural life and economy (tourism, international visibility). the new report stresses the importance of establishing links between the capitals designated each year, of strengthening the european dimension of the event and of enhancing its long-term benefits, in order to avoid a one-year windfall. after paris in 1989, avignon in 2000, lille in 2004 and marseille this year, it now remains to designate the city that will represent our country for 2028, the next nomination date for france.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on european capitals of culture for the years 2020 to 2033. this report takes stock of the actions carried out in the context of these european capitals of culture designated since 1985 and sets the rules for the period after 2020. i support this initiative, which aims to promote cultural activities in europe, the enhancement of european heritage and its inclusion in a sustainable and social urban development project, although i have some doubts about the latter. this year, marseille-provence was one of the two european capitals of culture and focused on the euro-mediterranean. it is important that european cultures appear in their diversity and that the richness of cultural mixing within and outside europe is valued, in which the contributions of immigrant populations play an important role. the opening of mucem in this context is a good example. in the future, the report stresses the need to label initiatives that create cultural links, involving as much as possible the citizens of the territories concerned, in particular young people and local cultural actors, as well as the various cultural associations. it remains to be seen whether all this will be implemented.
in writing. the european council amended the status of mayotte with regard to the eu with effect from 1 january 2014. mayotte will then cease to be an overseas territory and become an outermost region. therefore, union law will apply from 1 january 2014 in mayotte but france has requested delays for several sectors such as fisheries and animal health until the local authorities can comply.
in writing. as of 1 january 2014, mayotte, the 101st french department, will become an ultra-peripheral region (urr) and will therefore be an integral part of the european union. this is good news for mayotte, which as an eu territory will be able to benefit from eu funds and accelerate its economic, social and environmental development. supporting infrastructure projects, renewable energy, preserving the ecosystem, supporting fishermen and farmers, or supporting the mahorais in the fields of education and training: in all these areas, eu aid will be a great opportunity for mayotte and the mahorais. as an orp, mayotte must also apply eu law. but because of the island's remoteness and its particular economic and social situation, there are delays and exceptions. today i supported the reports which, in various areas, propose to give france and mayotte more time to enforce european rules and thus protect the specific features of the island. this is particularly the case in the environmental field and in fisheries matters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the european council decided to change the status of mayotte with regard to the european union as from 1 january 2014. therefore, as from that date, mayotte will cease to be an overseas territory and will become an outermost region of the union within the meaning of articles 349 and 155 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. following this change in the legal status of mayotte, union law will apply to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. however, taking into account the specific structural economic and social situation of mayotte as a new outermost region, it is appropriate to lay down certain specific measures relating to the special conditions of application of union law. it is therefore appropriate to adapt certain regulations for mayotte to take account of its specificities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ferreira report on the modification of the status of mayotte. this overseas territory becomes an outermost region within the meaning of article 349 of the treaty on european union. as of 1 january 2014, community law, including the common fisheries policy, will apply to mayotte. it is essential that this remote region be given time to comply with this legislation. the ferreira report, for example, authorises the obligation for ships flying the french flag to be equipped with safety equipment in accordance with european law until 31 december 2020. in view of the economic, social, geographical and structural situation of mayotte, i have advocated certain essential derogations from the maintenance of the mahoura fisheries sector.
in writing. in view of the difficult economic situation in mayotte, i voted in favour of this text which grants the island transitional measures to introduce provisions in the field of fisheries and animal health. the region must be given the means to implement effective measures to establish a sustainable fishery, which meets the objectives of environmental protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which results from the change in mayotte's status with regard to the union. union legislation should apply from 1 january 2014, but specific provisions applicable to mayotte in areas such as fisheries and animal health need to be included in union regulations.
in writing. from 1 january 2014 mayotte will have the status of an outermost region (orr) instead of an overseas country and territory (oct). in view of the specific situation of mayotte, the commission proposes to amend certain regulations in the fields of fisheries and animal health. the amendments are aimed at: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in the field of animal health, it is proposed to grant france a transitional period of five years in respect of mayotte, which would allow it to create the necessary infrastructure for the identification, handling, transport, treatment and disposal of animal by-products. these adjustments are necessary. i vote for it.
in writing. decision 2012/419/eu of the european council amends the status of mayotte, which will cease to be an overseas territory as from 1 january 2014, to become an outermost region. while we welcome this new entry into the union, we must be aware of the constraints of the territory and its capacity to comply with community legislation, particularly in the area of infrastructure. the package of regulations we voted on will help the island to make a smooth and gradual transition to the community acquis. these texts, which had to be submitted to parliament before the end of the year, will make it possible, in particular, to bring investment priorities into line with regional policy. the package includes taxation provisions, derogations in water treatment to accompany the investment timetables of the structural funds and a compromise on fisheries, which balances the need to develop the sector with the preservation of resources. i welcome the efficient parliamentary work which has enabled us to obtain a package which provides a balanced framework for the mahoura process.
in writing. i voted against the commission delegated regulation (eu) amending annexes i, ii and iv to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted against resolution b7-0547/2013 in favour of the objection to the delegated act because i believe that the european commission should present a delegated act for each candidate country to the generalised tariff preferences scheme. in particular, i would have liked to see the pakistan request considered separately because of the impact of imports on the european textile sector. in addition, the attitude of the european commission and the lack of information on the follow-up to the implementation of the human and workers' rights counterparts for the countries concerned, leads me to support a rejection resolution.
in writing. this is the approval of the delegated regulation on the scheme of the wto's generalised system of preferences (gsp). the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster. the programme targets around 7200 products that can enter the eu duty-free from vulnerable countries that accept the main international conventions on social issues, human rights, environmental protection and governance. the resolution aims to include burma and south sudan in this programme, which speaks volumes about the weakness of the international commitments cited. i am in favour of a protectionist approach based on solidarity, but i am voting against this new stage in the liberalization of world trade.
in writing. i did not support the adoption of this proposal in plenary in reaction to the european commission's method and attitude in implementing the system of generalised preferences (gsp), which was revised last year. for reasons of transparency and efficiency, we have repeatedly asked the commission to act by means of single delegated acts, country by country, to draw up the annexes to the revised gsp regulation. in committee, as in plenary, it has not been able to justify its regulatory choices, which severely limit our power as co-legislators. i therefore voted against this delegated act because the legal form chosen by the commission does not allow me to comment on each country, but on the contrary forces me to make an overall analysis, which is very difficult when the groups of countries concerned do not have an equivalent level of development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on commission delegated regulation (eu) no .../... of 28.8.2013 establishing annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences in order to send a signal to the european commission as regards the conditions for the implementation of the basic regulations rather than to oppose the generalised system of preferences, which has proven its worth.
in writing. i objected to the commission delegated regulation establishing annex iii to the regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. however, given the different political and economic situations of those countries, a separate delegated act should be adopted for each of them, taking into account their specificities. it is important to be careful in drawing up the list of beneficiaries of this exemption from customs duties for certain imports from these countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the objection to the delegated act because i believe that the european commission should present a delegated act for each candidate country to the gsp scheme. in particular, i would have liked to see the pakistan request considered separately because of the impact of imports on the european textile sector. in addition, the attitude of the european commission and the lack of information on the follow-up to the implementation of the human and workers' rights counterparts for the countries concerned, leads me to support a rejection resolution.
in writing. this resolution raises a legal point. as always, the commission is attempting to encroach on the powers of parliament, here by abusing delegated acts which must be subject to the scrutiny of the european parliament and the council. i am referring to the respect of parliament's prerogatives, however weak they may be. i vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution in my vote in plenary in reaction to the european commission's method and attitude in implementing the system of generalised preferences (gsp), which was revised last year. for reasons of transparency and efficiency, we have repeatedly asked the commission to act by means of single delegated acts, country by country, to draw up the annexes to the revised gsp regulation. in committee, as in plenary, it has not been able to justify its regulatory choices, which severely limit our power as co-legislators. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because the legal form chosen by the commission for the implementing regulations does not allow me to comment on each country individually, but on the contrary forces me to make an overall analysis, which is very difficult when the groups of countries concerned are not at an equivalent level of development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on progress in the deployment of national roma integration strategies. we have won many votes in the libe committee, but some parts of this resolution remain problematic.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which gives us the opportunity to reiterate our commitment to all stakeholders in the debate to redouble their efforts to achieve the successful integration of the roma population. there is no shortage of proposals to break the deadlock we are currently in, but there are also obstacles to be overcome. more support is needed for local authorities to activate the european financial tools available, which are often complex, cumbersome and take too long to make available. other notable reluctance also arises from the need to provide co-financing which is considered too important for communities already exhausted by the economic crisis affecting all sectors of activity. finally, i think it is particularly useful to stress the importance of education for roma youth to break the current vicious circle of no training means no access to employment, therefore no access to housing, and therefore a vicious circle that we must break.
in writing. the integration of roma in the member states, especially in their country of origin, is a real concern for citizens and deserves a european response. it is high time to open the debate, to assess the policies that have been pursued so far and which do not seem to be bearing fruit, if we look at the evidence of impotence in our capitals. the european union is distributing funds for roma integration projects. can we now guarantee that these funds have been used correctly and transparently? the ostrich policy pursued by the national and european authorities is met by the dismay of citizens and local elected representatives. this can't go on. the time for demagogic speech must give way to the time for strong action and effective solutions. that is why i took the initiative of proposing to the members of the european parliament the creation of a committee of inquiry into the use of european funds for roma integration, the guiding principles of which were adopted by the european parliament in the report adopted on 12 december on national roma integration strategies.
in writing. at a time when the french minister of the interior claims that the roma have no vocation to stay in france or that the sedentary judeo-christian populations have a better chance of integrating than the muslim populations, as the chief of staff of the president of the front national has stated, it is worth recalling that the european parliament strongly condemns discrimination and racism against the roma . the resolution also promotes the implementation of national roma integration strategies with concrete objectives, timetables and allocated budgets. however, the use of ethnic statistics which contradicts my universalist conception of the human being leads me to abstain.
in writing. i would like to emphasise that integration itself is not a one-way process: each party has its own responsibility. in the context of national roma integration strategies, member states must show solidarity with each other and this solidarity must be repeated at all levels and for all the actors involved. today, mayors are at the forefront of this integration process and need to be given more support by national authorities in implementing the policy frameworks. at the same time, i would like to stress the urgent need to strengthen the control and monitoring of the use of european funds to finance the integration of the roma population; brice hortefeux called him back, and i support his request. genuine transparency, accountability of all actors and solidarity of member states are essential for the effective implementation of national roma integration strategies".
in writing. the issue of roma integration is a subject of much debate in the european parliament and i regret that this issue is only treated in a caricatured and episodic manner by the french media. i supported this resolution which sets out the four priority areas for action for the integration of the roma: education, employment, health and housing. better integration of the roma is dependent, first of all, on the willingness of the roma themselves to want to integrate, on the fight against discrimination against the roma, but also and above all on the political courage of the local authorities in their countries of origin to integrate them better.
in writing. this resolution assesses the implementation by the member states of national roma integration strategies. the ep, like the commission, stresses the weak progress made by the member states in terms of concrete measures and results in favour of roma integration. the resolution condemns the discrimination and violence suffered by the roma, not only because of the extreme poverty and exclusion of many of them, but also because of the lack of respect for human rights and the right to life. it calls for an end to racist and hate speech, including by certain politicians, to various practices that restrict their rights and to their illegal expulsions. the resolution lists a number of actions and measures needed to improve the living conditions of roma in the union and also stresses, through an amendment by our group, the necessary political will without which these recommendations are likely to have little effect. i regret, however, that my amendment condemning the dismantling of the roms camps was rejected. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution, which i voted for, of course, in the hope that it will finally facilitate the implementation of european policies in this area.
in writing. this motion for a resolution, which i voted for and which was adopted by parliament, welcomes the association agreements with georgia and moldova, but regrets the decision of the ukrainian authorities to withdraw from the signing of the association agreement with the union and considers this to be a missed opportunity. the report also deplores the violent events in ukraine following the incident and the reaction of the ukrainian law enforcement agencies. it seems to me that it is essential that we show solidarity with those who are demonstrating in favour of a european future and that is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the eastern partnership and more specifically on the eu/ukraine partnership at a time when millions of ukrainians are demonstrating to show their commitment to europe.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the joint resolution by all the political groups in parliament on the future of relations between the european union and the eastern partnership countries: armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova, ukraine and belarus. the resolution, while calling for cooperation and rapprochement with the eastern partnership countries, deplores the deterioration of the situation in ukraine. i call for a strengthened dialogue between the european union and ukraine.
in writing. anger has brought hundreds of thousands of ukrainians into the streets for two weeks, gathered in the heart of kiev to demand the european orientation of their country, as president viktor yanukovych refuses to sign the eu-ukraine association agreement. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods. the aim is not to ask ukrainians to choose between europe and russia, but to respond to the ukrainian people's view of europe as a democratic model that would be beneficial to them. we also call on the ukrainian authorities to engage in talks with the protesters in order to avoid an escalation of violence and destabilisation of the country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because we can deplore the fact that the ukrainian president has refused to sign an association agreement with the european union. while pressure is being exerted by russia, the union must continue to support ukraine through the strengthening of relations with ukraine and its eastern partners, through other cooperation tools.
in writing. this resolution promotes ukraine's entry into the eu, but i do not want it in the current conditions. it does so with a certain vigour, urging ukraine to resume negotiations and rightly denouncing the counter-pressures exerted by russia. but by welcoming the association agreements with georgia and moldova, including a free trade area, the resolution revealed its strategy: the eu has no other prospect than the forced liberalization of its neighbours, partners and future member states. i vote against.
in writing. in the context of the prospects for the accession of the western balkan countries to the european union, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution following up on the situation in albania. the resolution notes the progress made by albania in the economic field and in the field of human rights and commends albania for its modernization. it also encouraged albania to continue its efforts to meet all the economic and political criteria which are a prerequisite for eu membership.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the 2013 progress report on albania. this resolution is not satisfactory as it calls for granting candidate status to albania without referring to the conditions set out in the council conclusions of december 2012.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. in general, beyond the single case of albania, i believe that the european union should take a long-term break before thinking about continuing its enlargement policy. the european union should first strengthen its institutions and its working arrangements with the existing member states.
in writing. this is the annual report on the progress of albania's structural reforms in preparation for its eu accession. the resolution stresses the importance of the copenhagen criteria in the accession process. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i am opposed to these criteria and to any further enlargement of the eu under the present conditions without social and fiscal harmonization. i vote against.
in writing. as the latest monitoring report shows, albania has made immense progress and made considerable efforts to improve the enforcement of intellectual property rights, its judicial system, its public service sector, and to better fight corruption and organised crime. and all the albanian political forces are united in their desire to keep europe as a national priority. this is an encouraging sign for the region. we have always advocated that european integration keeps the western balkans as a whole on the path to progress and stability. but i believe that this integration is achieved through a privileged partnership and not through the granting of candidate country status. never has the crisis of confidence between the european union and its citizens been so serious. this is why, rather than continuing to run ahead, european leaders must start the process of rebuilding. we must go deeper before we can expand. to rethink the architecture of europe by proposing the organisation of a europe with several circles.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on the preparation of the european council of 19 and 20 december 2013 which will focus on the europe of defence as our french troops fight to restore stability and stop the massacres in the central african republic.
in writing. this joint resolution by the right and the social democrats expresses its recommendations to the european council. the main objectives are to deepen economic and monetary union, to integrate the tscg into european law by 2018 and to promote a strengthened european defence system. i am sure that the council will welcome this litany of liberal and authoritarian views. i'm not; i object to the substance of this resolution in its entirety and in detail. i vote against.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution on the preparation of the european council of 19 and 20 december, which focuses mainly on defence issues. the resolution proposes, in particular, the establishment of a strengthened european defence system and the creation of a council of defence ministers. that is enough to justify my opposition. on the other hand, i can only deplore, once again, the lack of political will to really promote a non-military resolution of conflicts, and i regret that the emphasis is solely on the defence of the union and its surveillance activities. the eu's foreign policy must be strictly civil, according to the gue/ngl. and how can we accept that in this period of 'crisis' when austerity policies are being imposed on almost all public policies, there is a demand for an increase in the union's military budgets. redirecting these resources to invest in civil industry and development would finally provide a response to the economic and social aspirations and needs of the population.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the constitutional problems of multi-level governance in the european union. we must restore clarity and simplicity in order to show our citizens the usefulness of the european institutions and how they work.
in writing. this talkative and legally invalid report is intended to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the eu. its framework of analysis and its proposals, however, deny the most basic democratic principles. the report calls for the eu's worst authoritarian tools: the lisbon treaty, imposed despite the negative votes of the french, dutch and irish peoples, but also the budgetary pact and its corollary, the tscg treaty. it does not intend to change the logic of these instruments, but instead proposes to strengthen them. this can only be done at the expense of the sovereignty of the peoples. worse, the report advocates further democratic backsliding, such as the possibility of amending the treaties without the agreement of all the states. the introduction of a union budget minister to strengthen the commission's veto over national budgets. we wonder what the european parliament is for when its epp and pse rapporteurs are just there to slavishly repeat angela merkel's proposals. i therefore vote against this report, which would further harden the eu's financial coup against the people.
in writing. this report is a continuation of the austerity policies implemented within the eu and in particular of what they call in european jargon the euro plus pact, the six-pack, the two-pack, which are nothing but the translation into european law of the budgetary pact. the european parliament proposes a multi-speed approach. some will be offered different timetables but of course without changing the objectives. this is what france in particular has agreed to. in the medium term, some will be able to 'maximize' the possibilities offered by the existing treaty, i.e. to use the flexibility clause (article 352 tfeu) and enhanced cooperation (article 20 teu). we pinch each other... in other words, we are going straight to the point and, despite the opinion of a growing number of experts, we are pursuing the same policies that are leading us straight into the wall with the social consequences we know. this is in line with the logic of an increasingly aggressive economic federalism in which the states renounce any possibility of going backwards. it is anti-democratic and a denial of national and popular sovereignty. i voted against this report without hesitation.
in writing. i voted for the report by my colleague alain lamassoure on the relations between the european parliament and the institutions representing national governments, as it aims to draw lessons from the first years of application of the lisbon treaty and proposes to formalise the relations between the parliament and the european council.
in writing. in the four years since the treaty of lisbon entered into force, the institutional framework has been constantly evolving in the face of economic upheavals, with the european council taking on the heavy task of giving europe a clear direction, even though it has been criticised on many occasions for taking short-sighted decisions. however, while the crisis has made it the real decision-making body, the democratic legitimacy of the treaty has also been weakened. the heads of state and government are elected by their nations, but the democratic representation embodied in the european parliament has lost all credibility. how can we weigh decisions when bets are being made? the practice of recent years has shown that the european council has become the nerve centre of community life and, while parliament, the commission and the council of ministers continue to be the daily animators, it now appears essential to formalise its role. that is why, as my colleague alain lamassoure suggests, i hope that the european council will clearly define the procedures for the election of the president of the european commission in 2014.
in writing. as the european elections approach, we feel it is essential to clarify our expectations of the council. we ask that in future the president of the european council should systematically come to the plenary session of parliament in strasbourg to present the topics on the agenda of the european summits. we also believe that the future president of parliament should be able to take part in all the meetings of these summits, alongside the heads of state and government. finally, we wanted to remind member states that when they present their candidate for the post of president of the european commission, they will have to take account of the results of the european elections and respect the choice of the electors. since the future president of the european commission will have to be sworn in by the european parliament, the heads of state or government will have every interest in nominating the person who is likely to command the largest majority of the votes of the parliamentarians. the major european political parties have all committed themselves to nominating their candidates before the elections, and we hope that this new political issue will be of a nature to encourage voter participation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which proposes to formalise the council's relations with the european parliament. among the parliament's proposals, any council meeting should be preceded by a debate before the european parliament where the president of the council would present the items on the agenda.
in writing. this report, which calls for democracy and the strengthening of parliament's powers, is a monument to hypocrisy and cynicism. indeed, its main political position is to boast forcefully of the work of the eurocrat van rompuy who presides over the european council without any people having deliberated on it and without anyone knowing who he represents. but it is the same van rompuy who just helped merkel trample on the rights of the european parliament to adopt the eu budget 2014-2020. so much so that parliament's resolution on the subject went so far as to point out in november the characteristic violations of the treaties by the european council. the rapporteur, who voted for this resolution, does not seem to remember it. while he talks about the council's lack of collective responsibility and criticises the states, he is also totally unaware of the european commission's lack of concrete responsibility. yet this is the heart of the daily denial of democracy in europe. the pointlessness of this report is finally confirmed by its empty proposals: to make a joint statement of the council and parliament or to exchange letters ! i vote against it.
in writing. in the current economic and financial crisis, the european council has considerably increased its role to the detriment of the co-legislators, the eu council and the european parliament. this is unacceptable and the formalisation of working relations between parliament and the european council must become a priority. i therefore support the proposal by my colleague, alain lamassoure, the rapporteur, to have a debate in parliament and to adopt a resolution before each european council. moreover, in view of the forthcoming european elections, it is essential that declaration no 11 annexed to the treaty of lisbon on the election of the future president of the commission be respected and that the european council make clear how it intends to apply the treaty when electing the next president of the commission so that the place and role of european citizens are fully respected.
in writing. i abstained on this report on the european parliament's relations with the institutions representing national governments, namely the council of the european union (the ministers) but especially the european council (the heads of state or government). the report rightly pointed out that the european council has consistently exceeded the role conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon, namely to promote general political priorities, with a ban on exercising legislative functions. the opposite has happened (on the question of patents, the banking supervisory authority or the european budget for the next seven years, for example) and the european parliament's role in the drafting of legislation has been reduced. but instead of shouting and proposing measures, parliament should have taken up its responsibilities, engaged in a show of force with the european council, enforced its prerogatives and refused to endorse major political choices made without it.
in writing. the essential role of green spaces is not sufficiently taken into account in public policies and actions undertaken on the ground. these areas are essential for, among other things, flood control, biodiversity protection and the survival of insects, especially bees, on which pollination depends. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on green infrastructure policy. this is a huge potential in terms of investment, jobs but also in terms of fighting climate change which we must support for the future of our planet.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution which recognises the major importance of green infrastructure for the effective protection of europe's natural capital, the conservation of natural habitats and species and the good ecological status of water bodies. it is up to the member states to integrate green infrastructure issues into their spatial planning plans, consulting and educating stakeholders and the local population, and responding to ecological, economic and societal needs in both urban and rural areas. the example of green and blue networks launched in france under the presidency of nicolas sarkozy is a model at european level.
in writing. the resolution aims to encourage the development of what the european parliament calls in its technocratic jargon green infrastructure , to be understood as the greening of urban spaces. this development is considered, in due course, necessary for a whole range of reasons such as public health, biodiversity, water quality and even social. but as always, the european parliament's environmental policy is a private matter. the first leverage mentioned is to increase private sector investment. no truly coercive proposals are ever considered for the establishment of ecological planning at european level. planning is left to the private sector, for the betterment of their profits. this resolution is therefore not fully in line with the fight against climate change. the global ecological crisis is that of the capitalist mode of production, encouraged by the public policies currently in place, particularly those of the european union. i vote against. environmental planning, stop the anti-environmental policies of the european union.
in writing. the european commission, following an oral question from the environment, public health and food safety committee of the european parliament, has given some clarifications on the guidelines of european policies in favour of so-called green infrastructure, and these guidelines are what the european parliament has examined in this report. these infrastructures are defined as 'a network of natural and semi-natural areas and other environmental elements' and are intended to protect nature as part of land use planning and development. - what's the deed? the implementation of the recommended measures is particularly important in the context of the fight against climate change, the prevention of natural disasters such as floods and the restoration of biodiversity, including forests. i am not deluding myself, particularly in view of the resources needed to implement such policies, which are unimaginable in the context of the current budget cuts, but i voted for this report in the hope that at least some of the measures proposed will be implemented and will make it possible to turn words into action.
in writing. i voted in favour of a report which takes stock of the ecb's performance in 2012. this is particularly the case for the ecb's monetary policy and other related decisions. the consequences of the financial crisis, as well as the current sovereign debt crisis, are the backdrop to most of these decisions.
in writing. with this text, we support the activities of the ecb, which played a key role in stabilising our economies in the face of the crisis in europe. it encourages a more integrated monetary policy, in particular through the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism (ssm) separate from the member states. finally, particular attention is paid to supporting smes, which may appear to be more vulnerable in the face of the crisis. the text is intended to facilitate their access to credit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european central bank, encouraging it to support more the real economy and smes. action to improve access to credit for smes and the industrial sector in europe is needed to support employment and growth.
in writing. this report welcomes the disastrous action of the european central bank (ecb). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the financial system. the report welcomes the fact that the ecb has "relieved the financial markets". the funds mobilised were considerable: over 1 000 billion in liquidity provided to banks at a rate of only 1% between the end of 2011 and the end of 2012. easy money that has not returned to the real economy: over the same period credit growth in the eu has been cut in half, with bank lending growing less rapidly than activity itself. while it could have ended the sovereign debt crises by lending to the states, the ecb has only bought back 200 billion sovereign bonds by making money off the backs of the states. and she let the banks keep strangling them. the new historic decrease in the ecb's key rate to 0.5% in 2013 shows that this absurd policy in the service of banks continues. i am voting against this report, which does not propose any reorientation of the ecb's role.
in writing. the scale of tax fraud and evasion undermines citizens' confidence in the fairness and legitimacy of public administrations and their tax systems. moreover, unilateral national measures have proved ineffective and insufficient, underlining the need for a coordinated and multi-pronged approach based on concrete strategies and objectives defined at national, european and international levels. i supported this text calling for a series of concrete objectives to reduce the fiscal gap at european and national level. the main objective is to reduce the tax gap by 2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution in favour of a measurable and binding commitment against tax fraud and tax evasion in the european union. fighting tax fraud and tax evasion more effectively would bring hundreds of billions of euros back into national budgets and the eu, thus helping to close many of our deficits and boosting investment.
in writing. i supported the resolution for a measurable and binding commitment against tax fraud and evasion in the european union. tax evasion is a major shortfall in europe. this phenomenon knows no borders and needs to be dealt with at international level. the european union therefore appears to be a key player in dealing with this problem. i am in favour of introducing a series of concrete targets to be achieved by 2020 to combat tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. the scale of crossborder tax evasion is immense, and unilateral national measures are not enough to stop it. i voted for a new common system which is both binding on the member states and allows them to exchange the information needed to combat tax evasion. it is absolutely essential to close the 'tax gap', i.e. the revenue lost due to illegal tax fraud and evasion practices that exploit gaps and asymmetries between different tax regimes. we need european cooperation and commitment in this area to prevent this shortfall from having too great an impact on the growth of our economies. the obligation on member states to improve the capacity to collect taxes and to fight fraud should thus be strengthened.
in writing. this joint resolution by the right and the social democrats aims to propose concrete solutions to combat tax fraud and evasion. unfortunately, it is content with the measures proposed by the commission, such as the automatic system for the exchange of tax information, which is a strainer. behind the general phrases calling for better coordination and common will this report is silent on the eu's responsibilities in the development of fraud. there is no mention of the wild liberalization of capital flows, the transfer prices which allow large groups to avoid paying taxes, or the austerity which is decimating tax controls. there are simple solutions to eradicate fraud: banning european banking activities in tax havens or publishing the lists of tax evaders held by several governments. i am voting against this report, which only marginally tackles fraud.
author. - mr president, the least we can say is that the situation in the central african republic has changed somewhat since this emergency resolution was put on our agenda. this is the third time we have discussed this since the beginning of the year. but in the years before that, the european parliament was not particularly concerned about the human rights violations in this country, which has gone from one dictatorship to another since its independence. dictatorships always supported, or even installed with the more or less active complicity of the french governments, because the central african republic is one of the hubs of what some - yes, madame de keyser - call françafrique, one of its rear military bases, from which many of the fifty or so french military interventions that have taken place on the african continent since the end of the colonies have originated. for several weeks, french military forces had been preparing to intervene, and it was, no doubt, the imminence of this intervention that precipitated things in bangui. the anti-balaka have intervened in a coordinated way, claiming to fight against the abuses of the selaka. and it is clear that at least some of them are fighting for bozizé, the ousted former president. they spread death in their path, setting off a spiral of unprecedented violence - several hundred deaths in a matter of hours. once again, the religious question was exploited. these acts of violence have served to justify the intervention of the french army, with or without a un resolution. yes, the population has a right to security, yes we can pay tribute to the two french soldiers who paid with their lives for international negligence. we would have liked the resolution to explicitly recall respect for the un mandate, and above all to speak about the future, the future of the central africans, who should finally have the right to speak. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr. preda, you're used to listening to me carefully. i do not think that i have ever spoken out against military intervention, but i regret that we are being led to such interventions. indeed, in the face of international indifference, it is easy to say: "france must intervene". for a year, indeed, a un resolution has been requested, and it is not satisfactory. the un force on the ground, formerly african forces, which are still not actually in place, are not in a position to move forward. it is international negligence, it is collective responsibility that is at issue. i didn't say anything about military intervention. i've regretted the death of two french soldiers.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the seleka rebels seized power on 24 march 2013, the atrocities against civilians, the looting and rape have plunged the central african republic into a terrible outbreak of violence and sectarian clashes. hundreds of thousands of central africans have fled their homes, others have fled the country, the humanitarian situation has become dramatic. so action was urgent. this is the decision taken unanimously by the security council. and it is on the basis of the united nations mandate that france has been intervening, since 5 december, alongside african forces, with the support of the european union, which supports and finances misca, to protect the populations, disarm the militias and prepare for the democratic transition. i welcome the european parliament's support for the french intervention and i want to pay tribute to the two french soldiers who were killed in the course of this mission to help the civilian population. i would add that this crisis called for urgent action, but we also need to build a comprehensive and lasting response, starting today, which must include not only security but also humanitarian action, development, political transition and the organisation of free elections. we need the full involvement of the european union in all these areas to respond to the crisis in the central african republic. that is the message of the european parliament. i hope he's heard.
author. - mr president, once again we are going to talk about china and the human rights violations that are taking place there. there are countries which are extremely closely watched by this parliament. 300,000 new patients are enrolled on the organ transplant waiting list every year in this huge country of china. only 10,000 organ transplants take place every year, mainly for religious reasons, as my colleague romeva has explained. but 65 to 90 percent, according to sources, is from samples taken from the bodies of executed prisoners. it is an abomination that we condemn, as we condemn the death penalty in this country and elsewhere. the chinese authorities have announced their intention to phase out these practices by 2015 at the latest. from other countries, this would have been seen as a sign of goodwill, and it would have justified many delays. the resolution on sri lanka is sufficient proof of this. but it's in china. i'll just bet that as economic agreements multiply, some people's vigilance will become more frugal.
the question is "blue cardboard". if you don't mind, i'd like to ask you a question. you're telling us there's a whole market for organs growing in china. i've worked hard trying to build on reliable sources. we all agree that there are 10,000 organ harvesting and every year there are 300,000 more applicants in china. so i'm wondering where you see a market. it is true that there is a problem in china with organ harvesting. china must have legislation that is in line with international law, but it is not useful to say anything and everything about it. what is your argument based on?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this resolution does not live up to what is happening in sri lanka. to see this, one need only read the report of the un human rights council. in particular, navi pillay, the high commissioner, said last august that the sri lankan regime was showing signs of becoming increasingly authoritarian. the ngos report that repression in the country is worsening, particularly against the tamil people. in view of this situation, how can it be acceptable that those seeking refuge in europe are sent back to colombo at the risk of their lives? i remember the case of a young man of thirty, elanchelvan rajendram, who took refuge here in strasbourg and was sent back to sri lanka after being denied asylum despite the public outcry that had been triggered by his expulsion. six months later, he was dead, shot through the head. two of his brothers had been murdered, his uncle tortured. but that was not enough to convince ofpra. this is unbearable. we should mobilize to prevent such tragedies from happening again. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". excuse me, but i don't see what the problem is. the question is not who speaks tamil or sinhala, the question is whether there are human rights violations in sri lanka or not. and the ngo reports are clear: the situation is getting worse. there was indeed a hope of reconciliation, but it is behind us. today we must take a different approach, as the un is calling for, and we will be standing behind the un high commissioner for human rights.
